qxp 30 3 07 07:05 Page 191 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Shareholder Information Registrar The Registrar offers the following share dealing services Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway By post: Worthing If dealing by post, you will need to complete a form and BN99 6DA send it to the Registrar rather than just instruct them in writing of your request.
The form is available on our Telephone: website www.
com investor or can be 08706 094534 UK requested from the postal sharedealing helpline on 44 121 415 7109 overseas 08706 060302 Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm By telephone: Website: www.
co. uk Call Shareview Dealing, a telephone dealing service provided by the Registrar, on 08453 002946 Shareholder enquiries Monday to Friday 8.00am to 6.00pm You should contact the Registrar if you: Please have your Shareholder Account Number have any questions regarding your shareholding to hand have any questions regarding your dividend payments By internet: Shareview Dealing is also available online at wish to participate in the dividend re-investment plan www.
com shareholderservices have lost your Share Account Statement or share certificate Please have your Shareholder Account Number to hand have changed your name or address Latest share price information wish to transfer your shares into someone elses name www.
com shareprice or joint names Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP From the 2006 final dividend payment, through DRIP, you can use your dividends to buy shares in Friends Provident plc.
In order to participate in DRIP in time for the 2006 final dividend payment, Lloyds TSB Registrars must receive your instruction no later than 25 April 2007.
For future dividends, your instruction must be received 15 working days before the relevant dividend payment date.
Before making a decision to join DRIP, you should first read the terms and conditions that were sent to shareholders with the interim dividend mailing in November 2006.
To join, simply call Lloyds TSB Registrars on the number provided above.
The terms and conditions are also available to download and view at www.
com dividends Important dates Shares go ex dividend 11 April 2007 Record date 13 April 2007 Annual General Meeting 24 May 2007 Payment date of 2006 final dividend 29 May 2007 Cautionary statement Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Friends Provident plc, its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings, from time to time, or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others, adverse changes to laws or regulations: risks in respect of taxation: unforeseen liabilities from product reviews: asset shortfalls against product liabilities: changes in the general economic environment: levels and trends in mortality and morbidity: restrictions on access to product distribution channels: increased competition: and the ability to attract and retain personnel.
These forward-looking statements are made only as at the date of this document and, save where required in order to comply with the Listing Rules, there is no obligation on Friends Provident plc to update such forward-looking statements.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 191 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxd 3 4 07 3:09 pm Page 2 Friends Provident plc Setting new standards Setting our sights still higher, towards the end of 2006 the Board set a new Vision for the Group, which is To be the standard by which all other providers are judged.
We believe this properly reflects our desire and determination to take a lead in lifting standards in our industry and so help restore the confidence of consumers.
Sir Adrian Montague, Chairman Some of the external recognition we received in 2006: Life Insurer of the Year Customer Care Award Life & Pensions Investments Overall E-commerce Company Life Protection Pensions Life Assurance Company of the Year of the Year Best Ethical Investment Provider Fund Management Asset Management Best Investment Trust Group Group Personal Pensions Group Stakeholder Pensions Investment Bonds Online Finance Awards Best Protection Site B2B Cert no.
SGS-COC-0620 The paper is Revive Matt which uses a combination of at least 75% recovered fibre and 25% virgin fibre.
It is 100% TCF Totally Chlorine Free and independently certified according to the rules of Forest Stewardship Council.
FSC Trademark 1996 Forest Stewardship Council.
Print by ISO 14001-certified Beacon Press.
Design and production by Flag Communications Friends Provident plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 NewCover.
qxd 3 4 07 3:09 pm Page 1 Friends Provident plc Setting new standards Pixham End Dorking, Surrey England RH4 1QA Tel: 0870 608 3678 Registered Number: 4113107 Friends Provident plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 www.
qxd 29 3 07 03:10 Page 1 FRIENDS 2006 Annual Review for Shareholders and Summary Financial Statements 17446 WL review.
qxd 29 3 07 03:10 Page 2 2006 Annual Review for Shareholders Your Board is recommending a final Shares rise Dividend rises to dividend of 5.2 pence per share which would bring the total dividend to 7.85 pence per share, a 2% increase over 2005.
Total Shareholder Return over 2006, which takes account of share 15% 7.85p price movements as well as dividends, was 19.0% compared with 14.4% for The value of your Friends Provident We made an interim payment to the FTSE 100 Index of leading shares.
shares increased 15% over 2006, shareholders of 2.65 pence per share rising from 189 pence at the last November.
The final dividend of beginning of the year to 217 pence 5.2 pence per share assuming it is at the end of 2006. approved at our Annual General Meeting on 24 May 2007 will be paid to shareholders on 29 May 2007.
You can work out how much you will receive by multiplying the number of Friends Provident shares you own on 13 April 2007 by the final dividend of 5.2 pence per share that we are recommending.
qxd 29 3 07 03:10 Page 3 Since that time, we have been able to increase the annual dividend I am delighted to report on another year of good progress for our shareholders every year, in line with our stated policy.
for the Friends Provident Group.
Last year I pointed to the work we had done in rebalancing and reshaping the Group There are a number of changes to the Board to report.
It is only to enhance our growth prospects.
In 2006, we have seen right to start with the retirement of Keith Satchell who has been those prospects becoming reality across large parts of our a magnificent Group Chief Executive over the past decade, business, and have extended our international reach still skilfully guiding the Group through the most challenging, yet further.
Our overall strong performance throughout the rewarding period in our long history.
I know also that the industry year is reflected in the financial achievements as presented acknowledges the significant contribution he has made, and in this Review.
continues to make, through his chairmanship of the Association of British Insurers, particularly with regard to the ongoing issue Setting our sights still higher, towards the end of 2006 the Board of pensions.
set a new Vision for the Group, which is To be the standard by which all other providers are judged.
We believe this properly In Philip Moore, we have an able successor to Keith, and the Board reflects our desire and determination to take a lead in lifting welcomes his appointment as the new Group Chief Executive.
standards in our industry and so help restore the confidence of Jim Smart joined the Board in January this year from Boots Group consumers.
Our industry contributes so much, both to plc and succeeds Philip as Group Finance Director.
Alain Grisay the economy as a whole and to the financial wellbeing of individual became a Board director at the beginning of 2006, succeeding families, but needs to do more to earn the trust of those who place Howard Carter as the Chief Executive of F&C.
Howard retired from their confidence in our hands.
Addressing this is rightly a priority, the Board after the 2006 Annual General Meeting, and two longand we intend to be a leading light.
serving non-executive directors, Christopher Jemmett and Lord MacGregor, will retire following the 2007 AGM.
Finally, we are In the UK marketplace, the focus of the media and the delighted to welcome formally Sir Mervyn Pedelty as a new nonGovernment throughout 2006 has remained on pensions and the executive director.
On behalf of the Board, it is my pleasure to various options and opportunities for change.
The widespread lack thank all of these directors, both past and present, for their advice of long-term saving certainly needs to be addressed and we and support to the Friends Provident Group.
continue to contribute fully and effectively to the developing debate, primarily through the Association of British Insurers.
This year, our Annual General Meeting is on 24 May 2007.
May Although the Government is preferring an alternative approach, I encourage all shareholders to vote on the resolutions being put we believe that the experience and expertise of our industry forward at that meeting.
I look forward to welcoming those of you makes it uniquely placed to partner the Government in any who are able to attend in person.
The increased attention on pensions, coupled with the greater clarity brought about through recent rule changes, has led to more activity generally in this market.
As one of the leading providers, we have benefited significantly from this, with pensions accounting for 73% of our total 2006 new business in the UK.
Overall, our share of the total UK market has risen to 5.5%, approaching double where we were when we Sir Adrian Montague, Chairman became a listed company in 2001.
qxd 30 3 07 04:31 Page 4 Setting new standards Life Insurer of the Year Customer Care Award Life & Pensions Investments Overall E-commerce Life Protection Pensions Life Assurance Company Company of the Year of the Year Let me start my first review as Group Chief Executive by saying how immensely privileged I feel to be given the opportunity to lead this great Company, succeeding Keith Satchell who has been an outstanding chief executive over the past ten years.
Under his leadership, the Friends Provident Group has been transformed into one of the acknowledged leaders in our industry, significantly larger than when he took office, and now with much greater potential for further profitable growth.
The Group has continued its strong advance through 2006 and these are some of the most notable highlights: UK Life & Pensions New business profits up by more than two thirds as a result of record sales Cementing our position as one of the top providers of pensions Being selected by the John Lewis Partnership to offer life assurance to their customers the first such retail distribution agreement for us Being voted Life Insurer of the Year at the annual British Insurance Awards and retaining our 5 Star service rating for the third consecutive year International Life & Pensions Achieving record sales and significantly increasing the associated profit Opening new branch offices in Singapore and Switzerland, extending our international reach Successfully entering the pensions market in Germany Deepening penetration of existing markets and enhancing diversification of earnings by territory Asset Management Restructuring the way the business is managed and strengthening the investment teams Developing new products to build our position in higher margin areas Identifying new distribution and growth opportunities Making real progress in embedding a performance driven culture It is evident from these achievements, and from our financial results generally, that the Friends Provident Group has been successfully building momentum ever since our stock market flotation in 2001, accelerating year on year.
It led us to announce in 2006 that we aim to grow the value of UK new business at a very challenging rate: also to express our confidence in the continued growth of our International operation and in the successful turn-round of the asset management company, F&C.
This general gathering of pace has characterised 2006 and I am confident that 2007 will see this trend of success continue.
Philip Moore, Group Chief Executive 4 17446 WL review.
qxd 29 3 07 03:10 Page 5 Online Finance Awards Best Ethical Fund Management Asset Management Best Investment Triple E-Excellence Triple E-Excellence Triple E-Excellence Best Protection Site Investment Provider Trust Group Rating: Group Rating: Group Rating: B2B Stakeholder Pensions Personal Pensions Investment Bonds Philip Moore succeeded Keith Satchell as the Friends Provident Group Chief Executive at the beginning of 2007.
Here he gives his views... on strategy... on service Expect no significant change.
The strategy we I see service as the end result of everything else have followed over recent years has proved we do.
It is what distinguishes us from others.
It has brought us much It cannot be done well without investing in success and will continue to do so.
Although many things, but at heart, quality of service is new to the top job, I have worked closely with a reflection of the quality of the people who Keith, the Board and my other management deliver it, and our people are very good.
What colleagues over the last three years in we do is worthwhile.
We developing the general direction of the must never lose sight of the power of the Group and I have every confidence in it.
human touch.... on customers... on style We have to ensure that the interests and Everyone is different and thats a good thing.
My expectations of our customers remain at the heart job is partly to ensure Friends Provident is a place of everything we do.
We work in an industry that where everyone can realise their full potential for is often perceived negatively.
We must play our the good of all.
We want our people to believe in part in reversing this perception, because our themselves and in the decisions they make, and industry actually does so much good in helping even take calculated risks which they feel are people manage their finances, often at very appropriate to help us achieve our aim, which is difficult times in their lives.
to set new standards in our industry.... on culture... on outlook Friends Provident has a very distinctive culture I recognise that I am taking over at a very that benefits our customers and ourselves.
It exciting time in the development of the has been created and is sustained by the people Friends Provident Group.
We have three good who work for us and the talent, innovation and businesses, albeit that each is at a different high values we apply to our work.
We have a stage in its development.
But each has real superb team and our good reputation is in safe potential, and the marketplaces in which we hands.
It is a team that is really making a operate, although still fiercely competitive, are difference and I am grateful to them all.
now more positive than they have been over recent times.
I confidently expect the Group to... on values go on growing and to do so profitably.
Whether at business or individual level, there is a right and a wrong way to behave, and it matters.
We operate to a set of values that not only reflects Friends Providents unique heritage but also gives us a real competitive advantage today.
qxd 30 3 07 04:33 Page 6 Group results...... strategies... Group financial highlights Group strategies Deliver excellent service and performance by putting customers at the centre of what we do 7,074m 204m 248m Build strong relationships Total Life & Pensions Contribution to profits Asset Management with key distributors to new business up 31% from Life & Pensions net revenues secure profitable growth Note 1 new business up 42% down 7% Develop our people and culture in line with our values to focus on the customer and enhance our performance Apply technology to 509m 398m 16.4p improve service, enhance EEV underlying profit EEV profit before tax EEV underlying earnings distribution and reduce before tax down 3% down 34% per share up 1% costs Note 2 Note 2 Grow our business profitably, targeting markets where we can achieve a leading position Diversify our business to 400m 491m 17.9p improve return, improve cash generation and reduce IFRS underlying profit IFRS profit before tax IFRS underlying earnings risk concentration before tax up 79% from continuing per share up 103% Note 3 operations up 34% Note 3 Diversification 7.85p 2.3 times 19.0% Dividend per share Dividend cover Total Shareholder Return up 2% up from 1.1 times FTSE 100 14.4% Note 4 Note 5 Note 6 Note 1 New business sales are reported on the Present Value of New Business Premiums PVNBP basis which is defined as single premiums plus the expected present value of new business regular premiums.
Note 2 EEV underlying profit earnings per share is based on expected investment return and excludes: i amortisation and impairment of Asset Management acquired intangible assets ii effect of economic assumption changes iii non-recurring items: and is stated after deducting interest payable on Step-up Tier one Insurance Capital Securities STICS.
Note 3 IFRS underlying profit earnings per share is based on longer-term investment return and excludes: i policyholder tax ii returns attributable to minority interests in policyholder funds iii non-recurring items iv amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets and present value of acquired in-force business: and is stated after deducting interest payable on Step-up Tier one Insurance Capital Securities STICS.
Note 4 Dividend per share includes the interim dividend paid in November 2006 and the proposed final dividend payable in May 2007, which is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Note 5 Dividend cover is based on IFRS underlying profit after tax and minority interests.
Note 6 Total Shareholder Return takes account of share price movements and dividends paid during the year.
UK Life & Pensions Our aim and strategies have not changed, nor do they need to.
We know that putting our customers first, and serving them well, will also bring the rewards that our shareholders One of the top ten in the UK for attracting new business, deserve for placing their confidence in us.
offering a comprehensive range of protection, pensions and investment products for individuals and corporate Philip Moore, Group Chief Executive clients.
International Life & Pensions UK LIFE & PENSIONS STRATEGIES Friends Provident International A major offshore cross-border life company focusing GROW on Asia, the Middle East, Continental Europe and the INTERNATIONAL LIFE & PENSIONS STRATEGIES SHAREHOLDER specialist UK market.
VALUE Lombard ASSET MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES The largest pan-European life assurance company of its kind for providing estate and tax planning solutions for the very wealthy.
Asset Management One of the largest asset managers in Europe in terms of the funds it manages, offering a diverse range of products across all the major asset types.
F&C is a quoted company in its own right and is 52% owned by Friends Provident.
qxd 29 3 07 03:10 Page 8 175 years of doing good Friends Provident was founded 175 years ago to make a positive difference to people in need.
Those same ethical principles still drive the way we do business today.
We take our social responsibilities very seriously and here we feature some of our achievements in 2006.
Our successes We have qualified again for both the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones World Sustainability Indices, which measure the performance of leading companies in sustainability.
We were again included in The Sunday Times Companies that Count, the UKs leading benchmark of responsible business, assessed by Business in the Community.
We were voted Life Insurer of the Year at the British Insurance Awards, selected for our clear strategy, product innovation, responding well to customers needs and our high level of service.
We won the first ever best ethical investment provider award from Moneyfacts, building on our success as the largest ethical investment provider.
We were accredited as a provider of 5 star excellent Working with our communities service in the Financial Adviser Practiv Service Awards for the third consecutive year.
In 2006, we committed to working towards giving 1% of our pre-tax profit to the community, targeting 0.5% in 2007, and we launched We were re-accredited as an Investor In People and a new community investment programme, FRIENDS in the featured in The Times Where women want to work community.
The programme encourages our people to get involved top 50 index.
in their local community and supports their chosen charities.
If you donated to BBC Children in Need in November, it may have been one of our people who took your call!
140 of our employees in Manchester helped out on the big night, taking over 4,000 calls which raised over 150,000 for the charity.
The team also raised over 1,000 in the office, a figure that we doubled.
Improving financial capability We teamed up with Life Academy and launched a new website to help people in group pension schemes manage their pension investments and plan their finances better, as well as featuring the benefits of good financial advice.
Further financial tools can be found at www.
com customer We joined forces with the Public Service Broadcasting Trust for a series of money-saving features on ITV regional evening news.
The Friends Provident Foundation provided a grant for the project, which aimed to help people reduce the cost of everyday bills by up to 100 a week.
Viewers were offered free advice on how to save money.
Over 11,000 people went along, and many found it invaluable.
One viewer said, I feel I have had my eyes shut for too long.
I will certainly be revising my spending from now on, and feel I have learnt a lot thanks again.
Full details of the Foundation can be found at www.
qxd 29 3 07 03:10 Page 9 Helping the environment Responsibility in the market We featured in The Times this autumn as a Carbon Champion.
In December, the BBC invited us to take part in a TV News The Carbon Trust has fast-tracked us through their programme, discussion about how Christmas shoppers increasingly look to investigating ways we can reduce our carbon footprint.
This trend echoes the growing popularity of our have ranged from simple actions like turning lights off, to more Stewardship range of funds, which invests only in ethically unusual solutions such as running hybrid cars.
We will be screened companies.
For more information on Stewardship, publishing a 3-year carbon reduction programme in 2007, so go to www.
2006 World Cup involvement Recycling has been high on the agenda for 2006.
Since June our As global sportswear brands proudly sponsored the national paper has been made from 100% recycled fibre, and marketing teams, behind the scenes we were recommending how they material is now at least 80% recycled.
Weve also rolled out a could safeguard their supply chains from accusations of labour new recycling and waste system.
Gone are the traditional exploitation and other potentially brand-damaging practices.
waste-paper bins at desks: we now have paper-only bins and This was one aspect of our reo service, which encourages everything collected is recycled.
the companies in which we invest to focus on their corporate responsibility practices.
For further details please visit our asset Putting customers first management companys website at www.
com governance As part of our ongoing commitment to providing the best possible service for customers, we are participating in the Customer Impact Scheme organised by the Association of British Insurers.
This is an industry-wide initiative, focused If you would like to learn more about our social responsibility on providing customers with the right products, the right activities, please visit www.
com responsibility information, and the right level of service to meet their needs.
We have produced a Caring for Customers report giving more details, available online at www.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 10 Board of Directors Sir Adrian Montague Philip Moore Lady Judge CBE, MA, Solicitor, 59, Chairman TD, MA, FIA, 47, Group Chief Executive BA, JD, 60, Deputy Chairman, senior independent director Appointed Chairman in May 2005, having been Appointed Group Chief Executive on 1 January Appointed a director and Deputy Chairman in appointed an independent director in October 2007, having joined Friends Provident plc on June 2001 having been an independent director 2004.
Chairman of the Investment Committee 1 July 2003 as Group Finance Director and of Friends Provident Life Office from 1994 to and member of the Nomination Committee.
appointed an executive director in September 2001 and its Deputy Chairman from 1998 to Currently the non-executive Chairman of British 2003.
Member of the Investment Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Energy Holdings plc, Michael Page International A non-executive director of F&C Asset Deputy Chairman of the Investment Committee plc and Infrastructure Investors Limited.
Trustee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
A Trustee of the Waterways Trust and a of Childhood Eye Cancer Trust.
Chairman of the UK Atomic Energy Authority, of director of London First.
the School of Oriental & African Studies, of LIFE Previously at AMP UK where he was Corporate IC Limited, of the Professional Standards Advisory Formerly Deputy Chairman of Network Rail and Director of Finance and Head of Mergers and Board of the Institute of Directors and Deputy Chairman of Cross-London Rail Links Limited Acquisitions, having been Finance Director and Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council.
Previously Chief Executive of the Actuary of NPI on its acquisition by AMP.
Prior director of Quintain Estates and Development plc, Treasury Taskforce and Deputy Chairman of to joining NPI in 1998 he spent nine years at Private Equity Investor plc, Portmeirion Group Partnerships UK plc.
In his early career, he was a , initially in London PLC, Hardy Underwriting Group plc, Planet Group partner of Linklaters & Paines, and subsequently and then based in Hong Kong as the partner Inc. Eaglet Investment Trust PLC and Nationwide the Global Head of Project Finance for Dresdner responsible for the firms East Asia insurance Accident Repair Services plc.
commissioner of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Christopher Jemmett Ray King 70, independent director BSc, FCA, MCT, 53, independent director Appointed a director in June 2001, having been an Appointed a director in January 2004.
Member independent director of Friends Provident Life of the Audit and Compliance and Investment Office from 1997 to 2001.
Chairman of the Audit Committees.
Group Finance Director for BUPA and Compliance Committee and member of the since 2001.
Member of the Association of Investment and Remuneration Committees.
independent director of F&C Asset Management Formerly the Deputy Chief Executive of Parity plc called ISIS Asset Management plc until Group plc, Director of Group Finance and Control October 2004 since February 1998 when its at Diageo plc and Group Finance Director of name was Friends Ivory & Sime plc and its Southern Water plc.
Deputy Chairman and senior independent director since May 1998.
Chairman of F&Cs Audit and Compliance Committee.
Non-executive director and deputy chairman of Origo Sino-India plc.
Former director and member of the Executive Committee of Unilever PLC and Unilever NV and a former member of the Council of The Crown Agents Foundation.
Will retire from Friends Providents and F&Cs boards at the close of the respective AGM 2007.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 11 Alison Carnwath Alain Grisay Ben Gunn BA Hons, ACA, 54, independent director LLM, MA, 53, Chief Executive, MA, FCII, 56, Chief Executive, Friends Provident F&C Asset Management plc Life and Pensions Limited Appointed a director in December 2002.
Member Appointed an executive director and member of Appointed an executive director in June 2001 of the Remuneration and Audit and Compliance the Investment Committee on 1 January 2006. having been appointed an executive director of Committees and, since April 2004, has chaired the Chief Executive of F&C Asset Management plc.
Friends Provident Life Office in 2000 and With-Profits Committees of Friends Providents Managing Director, Friends Provident Life and Joined the board of F&C Asset Management regulated wholly-owned life and pensions Pensions Limited in March 2001.
A non-executive plc in October 2004 on completion of the merger operating companies.
Non-executive Chairman of director of Lombard International Assurance S. A. of ISIS Asset Management plc and F&C Group ISIS Equity Partners LLP.
Non-executive director of Member of Life Insurance Committee of the Holdings Limited F&CGH where he was Gallaher Group plc, Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig Welsh Association of British Insurers.
previously Deputy Chief Executive of F&CGH Water, Land Securities plc and Man Group plc.
and Head of Institutional Business.
Previously at Joined the Friends Provident Group in September Chairman of Glas Cymrus Remuneration JP Morgan for 20 years, as a Managing Director 1998 following the acquisition of London and Committee and Man Groups Audit Committee.
responsible for the investment banks market Manchester Group plc where he was Managing Previously a Managing Director of the US client business in Europe.
Director of London and Manchester Assurance investment bank, Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Limited and a Group Executive Director.
Joined International, before it merged with Credit Suisse London and Manchester in February 1996 from Group in 2000.
Formerly a director of J Henry Hambro Countrywide plc where he was an Schroder Wagg & Co Ltd, National Power plc, executive director.
Arcadia Group plc, QA Group plc, The Vitec Group plc and Nationwide Building Society.
The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor Sir Mervyn Pedelty Jim Smart of Pulham Market FCA, FCIB, FRSA, 58, independent director B. Com, CPFA, FCCA, MBA, 47, PC, OBE, MA, LLB, 70, independent director Group Finance Director Appointed a director in June 2001, having been Appointed a director in October 2006.
Member Appointed an executive director on 1 January an independent director of Friends Provident of the Investment Committee.
Also, senior 2007, having joined Friends Provident in Life Office from 1998 to 2001.
Chairman of the independent director of Hiscox Ltd incorporated November 2006.
Member of the Investment Nomination Committee and a member of the in Bermuda, a director of Hiscox plc, Hiscox Committee.
A non-executive director of F&C Audit and Compliance Committee.
Also a nonInsurance Company Ltd, Business in the Asset Management plc since January 2007. executive director of Associated British Foods plc, Community Ltd and Chairman of FTSE4Good Member of the Financial Regulation and Taxation a member of the Supervisory Board of DAF Policy Committee.
Chairman of Hiscox Committee of the Association of British Insurers.
Trucks NV of Eindhoven, the Netherlands and coRemuneration and Nomination Committees.
Previously, chief financial officer at Boots Group chairman of the UK Food and Agricultural Advisory Previously at The Co-operative Bank plc where plc.
Prior to joining Boots, he was at Abbey Board of Rabobank International.
Chairman of the he was Chief Executive from 1997 to 2004, and National plc for 15 years where he held a number Slough Estates Pension Fund Trustees.
also Chief Executive of Co-operative Financial of senior finance and operational positions and A Conservative Member of Parliament from 1974 Services Ltd and Co-operative Insurance Society was a director of the groups life assurance to 2001 and a member of the Government from Ltd from 2002 until his retirement in 2004. business, Scottish Mutual Assurance plc.
1979 to 1994 including five Cabinet posts.
Former member of the Department for Work and Pensions Employer Task Force on Pensions, a Deputy Chairman of Hill Samuel Bank Limited and director of the Association of British Insurers director of Hill Samuel & Co Limited, Uniq plc from 2002 to 2004 and previous member of the formerly Unigate plc and Slough Estates plc.
Council of the British Bankers Association and of Will retire from Friends Providents Board at the its Chief Executives and Audit and Remuneration close of the AGM 2007.
Prior to The Co-operative Bank, a partner of LEK Consulting, a senior executive of TSB Group plc and a director of TSB Bank plc.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 12 Summary Report of the Directors This is a summary of the report presented by directors to Principal activities shareholders for the financial year ended 31 December 2006.
The Friends Provident plc is the holding company of the Friends full Annual Report and Accounts which includes the entirety of Provident Group of companies and is a constituent of the FTSE 100 the Report of the Directors, the reports of the Nomination, Audit Index.
The Group has three diversified business segments: UK Life and Compliance and Remuneration Committees and the Report on and Pensions, International Life and Pensions and Asset Corporate Governance and the Financial Statements will be laid Management.
The principal activities are the provision of retail before the Annual General Meeting.
financial services, chiefly long-term insurance business and asset management.
The UK Life and Pensions business operates These Summary Financial Statements have been prepared on through Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited FPLP and the basis of accounting policies set out in the Groups Annual its subsidiary life assurance companies.
The International Life and Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Pensions business is serviced through subsidiary life assurance The financial information for the periods shown has been abridged companies, Friends Provident International Limited FPIL in the from those accounts.
Isle of Man, Hong Kong and Dubai and Lombard International Assurance S. A. in Luxembourg.
The Asset Management business Annual General Meeting is undertaken through F&C Asset Management plc F&C, a 52% The Annual General Meeting 2007 is to be held at The Queen owned, publicly listed subsidiary company.
Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London, SW1P 3EE on 24 May 2007 at 11.00 am.
Business review During 2006, the Group focused on the three core businesses.
Accounts A summary of the results for the financial year is included within The summary consolidated profit and loss account and balance this document on pages 18 to 22. sheet are presented on both the European Embedded Value EEV basis and the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Dividend basis.
The focus is on the EEV basis as the Board considers that The directors are recommending a final dividend for 2006 of 5.2 the EEV profit from our core life and pensions insurance business pence per share, payable on 29 May 2007 to all holders of ordinary is a more realistic measure of the performance of that business.
shares on the register of members at the close of business on The EEV basis is generally accepted by the life insurance industry 13 April 2007.
The dividend for the year, including the interim and is designed to recognise profit as it is earned over the term of dividend of 2.65 pence per share paid on 24 November 2006, the policy.
amounts to 7.85 pence per share 7.7 pence per share in 2005.
The total cost of dividends for 2006 will amount to 167 million.
The total profit recognised over the lifetime of the policy is the The intention is for interim dividends to be paid in November and same as that recognised under the IFRS basis of reporting but the final dividends to be paid in May each year.
The interim dividend timing is different.
The EEV basis fully recognises the shareholders will represent approximately one third of the anticipated total interest in the in-force life and pensions business.
In November 2006, the Company announced the that underlying profit better reflects the performance of the introduction of a Dividend Re-investment Plan with effect from Group and management focus on this measure of profit in the 2006 final dividend payment in May 2007.
This plan enables internal monitoring.
shareholders to elect to receive shares in the Company instead of cash.
Further information can be obtained from the Registrar Important Notice: These Summary Financial Statements do not whose contact details are at the back of these Summary contain sufficient information to give a full understanding of the Financial Statements.
results and state of affairs of Friends Provident plc.
You will find more detail in the full Annual Report and Accounts, which Share capital including treasury shares contains an unqualified auditors opinion.
You can obtain a full The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2006 copy of the Annual Report and Accounts by calling the Friends consisted of 2,139,144,959 ordinary shares of 10p each, including Provident Shareholder Helpline on 0870 609 4534 or by 22,630,083 treasury shares.
During 2006, 17,478,172 treasury downloading a copy from our website: shares 2005: 5,509,717 were used to fulfil obligations under the www.
If you prefer to receive the full All-Employee HM Revenue & Customs Approved ShareSave Annual Report and Accounts in future, please write to Lloyds TSB Scheme, the All-Employee Share Incentive Plan, the Executive Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
Share Option Scheme, the Deferred Share Plan and the Executive Long Term Incentive Plan.
In the period from 1 January 2007 to 12 17446 WL review.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 13 19 March 2007, a further 230,808 treasury shares have been used Environment for these purposes and a further 584 shares have been issued to The Companys engagement and commitment to environmental satisfy the conversion rights exercised by holders of 290 million issues are referred to on pages 8 and 9.
5.25% convertible bonds due 2007 issued on 11 December 2002.
At 19 March 2007, 2,139,145,543 ordinary shares of 10p each are Charitable and political donations in issue including 22,399,275 treasury shares.
Details of the total The Friends Provident Foundation is an independent vehicle issued share capital of the Company and the number of treasury through which the Company may make its charitable donations.
shares are published by the Company on its website.
The Foundation currently focuses its grant making activities on charities that stimulate new thinking about how money and the Debts financial systems around it should be used to generate social good.
The Company issued 18,030,885 Floating Rate Unsecured Notes The Foundation has made grants and donations to various bodies 2011 on 18 April 2006 to satisfy the payment of part of the including charities that the Company traditionally has supported.
additional consideration due in 2005 in respect of the acquisition The Group provides various administrative services to the of Lombard International Assurance S. A.
In 2006, donations to charitable organisations paid by the Group and grants approved, including On 20 December 2006, F&C issued 260,000,000 subordinated outstanding commitments from previous years of 1.04 million, loan notes, redeemable in 2026.
Part of the proceeds from these by the Foundation amounted to 2,028,740 2005: 1,954,539. notes was used by F&C to redeem 180 million term loan from In addition to the giving through the Friends Provident Foundation, FPLP which fell due in 2006.
Friends Provident has during 2006 introduced new initiatives to promote charitable giving through staff participation.
Full details of Directors these initiatives can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Details of the Board members at the date of these Summary Report on the website.
No political donations were made during Financial Statements are set out on pages 10 and 11.
must be elected at the AGM following their appointment.
Sir Mervyn Pedelty, who was appointed to the Board as a nonStatement of going concern executive director on 1 October 2006 and Jim Smart who was After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the appointed as an executive director on 1 January 2007, will offer Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to themselves for election at the AGM 2007.
In addition, one third operate as a going concern for the foreseeable future and have of the Board members must retire by rotation every year and, prepared the financial statements on that basis.
The directors retiring by rotation at the AGM and seeking re-election are Ray King, Sir Adrian Auditor Montague and Philip Moore.
Christopher Jemmett and Lord The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has indicated its MacGregor will retire at the AGM 2007.
The Combined Code willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of requires that Lady Judge submits to annual re-election and the the Audit and Compliance Committee, a resolution to reappoint Notice of AGM sent to shareholders fully deals with this and KPMG Audit Plc as auditor to the Company, and to authorise the explains why the Board is recommending her re-election.
directors to fix its remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
Directors and officers indemnity and insurance The Company maintains insurance cover with respect to directors On behalf of the Board and officers liabilities.
In addition, the Company has granted an indemnity in favour of directors and officers of companies within the Group in accordance with Article 140 and the provisions of section 309A of the Companies Act 1985 against personal financial exposure that they may incur in the course of their professional Gordon Ellis, Company Secretary duties.
Copies of the indemnity are available for inspection at the 19 March 2007 Companys registered office.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 14 Summary Corporate Governance Report The Board The Board provides leadership of the Group and, either directly or Internal controls and risk management through the operation of committees of directors and delegated The Group seeks to take appropriate and managed risks in order authority, brings an independent judgment on all issues of strategy, to make superior returns for its shareholders and customers.
performance, resources including key appointments and standards The Boards vision for risk management is an environment where of conduct.
The Board sets the Groups strategic aims, which it then business managers can take risks with confidence, and where implements through its approval and regular monitoring of a business consideration of risk is embedded into business planning, decisionplan and budget prepared by the executive directors.
The business making and everyday management.
It seeks to have in place the plan specifies key developments towards the strategic objectives that people, processes and systems to: are to be achieved by management within an agreed budget.
The identify and understand the risks facing the business: Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, ensures that the select the appropriate risks to accept, and price correctly directors receive timely and clear information on all relevant matters.
for them: At Board meetings, directors receive reports from finance, risk avoid, mitigate or transfer the inappropriate risks: and management and each of the key business areas.
The Board, supplied monitor the businesss risk profile against agreed risk appetite.
with information that is both timely and appropriate, deals with those matters specifically reserved for its decision, and takes all material Risk appetite decisions affecting the Group.
These include acquisitions, sales, capital Risk appetite is an expression of the level of acceptable and or structure, financing, the establishment of Board committees and their unacceptable risk and is determined by the Board and senior terms of reference, and the oversight and review of the operation and management.
The Groups willingness to take on risk is set with achievement of the Groups activities.
During 2006, it has been the reference to its capacity to bear risk.
The Board has set risk practice for non-executive directors to have a private session after appetite for the Group as a whole, and has approved more each Board meeting without the executive directors being present.
detailed appetite statements for the individual businesses.
The boards of F&C and the UK and international insurance subsidiaries also meet separately and regularly to monitor and direct the operations Risk governance and management, of those businesses and report, on a timely basis, through the policies and reporting respective chief executives to their immediate controlling companies.
Operational responsibility within the Group ultimately rests with During 2006, the Board met on 10 occasions.
the Group Chief Executive and is devolved through an executive structure with clearly delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
Reporting to shareholders In particular, the Chief Executive of F&C has operational The Company places considerable importance on communications responsibility to the board of F&C and its shareholders, reporting with shareholders and responds to them on a wide range of issues.
appropriately to the Board of the Company as controlling It has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings with major shareholder.
Members of Group management are, therefore, institutional shareholders, where a wide range of relevant issues accountable for the operation of the systems of internal control including strategy, performance, management and governance are within the Groups core businesses.
Further, the Chairman and the senior independent director are available to meet major shareholders and the Chairman Business unit management is responsible for putting in place the writes annually to the 20 largest shareholders, emphasising his ongoing management and monitoring disciplines for risks and availability should they wish to meet with him.
During 2006, no activities under its control.
The structure is designed to provide such meetings with the Chairman were requested by shareholders.
clear responsibilities and control for key areas of the Groups At its AGM, the Company complies with the provisions of the business, and includes whistleblowing procedures to enable staff Combined Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the to raise concerns in confidence.
Through these mechanisms, the separation of resolutions and the attendance of directors, performance of the business is monitored, risks are identified in particularly committee chairmen.
The timing of the despatch of a timely manner, their financial implications assessed, control the formal notice of the AGM complies with the Combined Code.
procedures re-evaluated and, where appropriate, corrective actions The outcome of every general meeting of shareholders, including agreed and implemented.
detailed voting results and votes withheld, is published on the Companys website following the close of the meeting.
The Groups governance structures for risk management are based on three lines of defence.
Primary accountability for managing risk Statement of compliance with provisions of the lies with the business units, and with those specialist functions Combined Code that are responsible for specific operational processes, such as The directors consider that the Company has throughout 2006 and Human Resources, IT and Facilities Management.
to date applied the principles and met the requirements of the Combined Code.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 15 A second line of defence is provided by the independent Group The risk management arrangements within F&C are described in Risk function, and those specialist functions that undertake policydetail in the F&C Annual Report and Accounts.
F&C provides a setting and monitoring roles, such as Compliance and Legal.
The quarterly summary of its key risks to the Group Risk function, for third line of defence is provided by Internal Audit, which has reporting to the Group Risk Committee.
responsibility for providing independent assurance over the risk management process and the internal controls environment.
The Groups systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business The Board: objectives, as no business can be successful without taking some is responsible for the risk management framework and for risk.
They can thus provide reasonable but not absolute assurance setting risk appetite: against material mis-statement or loss.
The boards and the risk has delegated to the Group Risk Committee authority to committees within the Group have terms of reference that approve the risk framework of the UK Life and Pensions describe their roles in the identification, assessment, management business and to endorse the risk frameworks of the other and monitoring of risk.
All risk policies are reviewed on at least an operating subsidiaries: and annual basis, to ensure they remain relevant to the changing receives quarterly reports from the Group Risk function demands of the business and regulatory environment.
summarising the Groups key risks and the actions in place to control them, and a brief monthly update on the key risks The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness and issues as part of its regular management information.
of the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management.
The Companys Audit and Compliance Committee also received: The Group Risk Committee: a review of the operation of the Groups risk management is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and is responsible for framework from the Groups risk management function: developing, sponsoring and monitoring the risk management a report from the Groups independent internal audit function activities and processes of the companies within the Group: of the frameworks effectiveness: and approves the risk management frameworks of the Groups assurances from the Group Risk Committee that the risk UK Life and Pensions business: and committees within the operating subsidiaries have reviewed receives quarterly reporting from the operating subsidiaries, the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management summarised by the Group Risk function.
activities within their respective remits.
Within the UK Life and Pensions business, the boards of the Where any significant failings or weaknesses were identified, principal operating companies: actions have been taken or are being taken to remedy them.
oversee the management of strategic risk: Through this process, the Audit and Compliance Committee was have established a Financial Risk Committee and an able to confirm to the Board that the systems of internal control Operational Risk Committee, which include executive directors comply with the revised Turnbull Guidance and the ABI Disclosure and other relevant senior managers: and Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment.
receive a quarterly summary of operational and financial risk and a detailed report of strategic risk from the Group Risk Auditors Report function.
The Auditors Report on the IFRS Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited for the year The Financial Risk Committee and Operational Risk Committee: ended 31 December 2006 was unqualified and did not contain a receive detailed quarterly reporting from the Group Risk statement under section 237 2 or 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985. function in respect of the significant risks within their respective remits, together with details of activities to improve On behalf of the Board the control environment where necessary: and oversee the implementation of detailed risk appetite for the risks within their respective remits.
Within the International business, FPIL and Lombard have risk Gordon Ellis committees comprising executive directors and other relevant Company Secretary senior managers that oversee their risk management processes 19 March 2007 and report into their respective boards.
The risk committees provide quarterly reports to the Group Risk function.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 16 Summary Remuneration Report Remuneration and performance: The elements of directors Companys policy on directors remuneration contracts that are performance-related are cash bonuses and share options.
Basic salary is determined by reference to market Executive directors conditions and individual performance and other major benefits are The Companys policy is that individual rewards and incentives directly related to base salary level.
Making some reasonable should be aligned with the performance of the Company and assumptions about the results of the incentive schemes, the the interests of the shareholders, and that they are set at an directly performance-related elements of the remuneration appropriate level in order to attract, retain and motivate executives packages of the executive directors would, for on-target who are expected to meet challenging performance criteria.
The performance, represent around 140% of base salary.
Remuneration Committee sets the level for each of the executive directors, with the exception of Alain Grisay, taking account of their Service contracts: The executive directors have rolling contracts individual contribution to overall performance and independent of employment with notice requirements of 12 months from the research.
Alain Grisay is Chief Executive of F&C who replaced employer and 6 months from the director and are subject to the Howard Carter on 1 January 2006, and is remunerated entirely same redundancy provisions as other staff.
Pensions: All executive directors, except Alain Grisay and Jim The executive directors remuneration packages include the Smart are members of a defined benefit pension plan.
F&C following elements: contributes to a money purchase arrangement for Alain Grisay.
a Salary determined by reference to external market Jim Smart is subject to the lifetime allowance on approved pension research data: benefits introduced by HM Revenue & Customs in April 2006 and b Performance-related annual bonus based on a in lieu of benefits under the pension plan, is paid a salary combination of achievement of personal performance indicators supplement amounting to 20% of basic salary, reviewable annually.
and company performance: c Savings-related share schemes two HM Revenue & Share options: Net gains made by executive directors at Customs approved schemes with eligibility on the same basis 31 December 2006 on share options exercised during the year are as other eligible UK employees: set out in the table below.
d Share incentive schemes The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP is the main long-term incentive programme within the Non-executive directors Company.
Following approval of shareholders at the AGM 2005, The non-executive directors are not part of any pension, bonus or the LTIP replaced both the previous LTIP and the Executive other incentive schemes of the Company or the Group.
None of Share Option Scheme ESOS.
The Remuneration Committee the non-executive directors has a service contract and none is believes that LTIP awards provide the greater incentive and entitled to compensation on leaving the Board save that, if hence value to shareholders.
The ESOS, in future, will only be requested to resign, a non-executive director is entitled to three used in exceptional circumstances, primarily to assist with the months prior notice or fees in lieu except Ray King and Sir Mervyn recruitment of senior individuals: and Pedelty, who are entitled to one months prior notice or fees in lieu.
e Benefits Benefits comprise the taxable value of a company The Chairman is entitled, in such circumstances, to six months car and private medical care.
These benefits are provided to prior notice or fees in lieu.
all staff on a similar basis but with the level being dependent upon seniority.
Share options Net gains made by executive directors at 31 December 2006 on share options exercised during the year are set out below:- Income Tax & Gross proceeds NICs deductions Net proceeds Ben Gunn ESOS 2003 505,286 245,973 259,313 LTIP 2003 364,977 177,671 187,306 Keith Satchell ESOS 2003 850,192 413,874 436,318 LTIP 2003 614,110 298,948 315,162 Philip Moore ESOS 2003 None exercised in 2006 LTIP 2003 178,240 86,768 91,472 16 17446 WL review.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 17 Apart from the Chairman and Deputy Chairman, non-executive outperformed the FTSE All Share Life Insurance Sector by 6.9%.
directors are paid a basic fee, currently 47,500 per annum, for For the year to 31 December 2006, Friends Providents TSR their role on the Board and separately remunerated for services as movement was ranked 58th 34th in 2005 when compared with chairmen or members on the Board Committees.
Fees for nonthe constituents of the FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of the year.
executive directors are determined by the full Board with reference to market data gathered from a number of independent sources Total shareholder return indices Friends Provident, FTSE 100 and are reviewed annually, normally from 1 July.
The Chairman and FTSE All Share Life Insurance whose fees are determined by the Remuneration Committee and 150 Deputy Chairman of the Board, do not receive the basic fee or separate fees for their services on Board Committees, but rather receive an annual inclusive fee only, currently 250,000 and 125 90,000 respectively, the latter being exclusive of VAT.
100 Performance graph The graph opposite demonstrates the performance of the 75 Company based on total shareholder return TSR compared with the FTSE100 TSR Index and the FTSE All Share Life Insurance 50 Sector TSR Index.
The graph shows the performance for the 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 Companys five reporting periods since 31 December 2001.
Friends Provident Return Index Over the whole period, Friends Providents TSR has just slightly FTSE 100 Return Index underperformed against the FTSE 100 Index by 2.3% but has FTSE All Share Life Insurance Return Index Directors emoluments and compensation in the relevant financial year audited The remuneration of each director in 2006 with 2005 comparison comprised: Annual bonus Compensation Total Total Salary and fees Benefits 2006 accrued for loss of office reported 2006 reported 2005 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Howard Carter retired 25.05.06 - - - - - 1,885 Alain Grisay appointed 01.01.06 325 6 1,358 - 1,689 1,096 Ben Gunn 330 10 204 - 544 513 Philip Moore 398 9 229 - 636 538 Keith Satchell retired 31.01.07 525 11 393 - 929 812 Jim Smart appointed 01.01.07 65 2 - - 67 - Non-executive Alison Carnwath 71 - - - 71 85 Christopher Jemmett 131 - - - 131 124 Lady Judge 88 - - - 88 83 Ray King 58 - - - 58 52 Lord MacGregor 61 - - - 61 57 Sir Adrian Montague 235 - - - 235 139 Sir Mervyn Pedelty appointed 01.10.06 13 - - - 13 - Howard Carters and Alain Grisays emoluments and compensation are entirely paid by F&C.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 18 EEV Summary Financial Statements Summary consolidated income statement on an EEV basis For the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 m m Life & Pensions underlying profit 434 434 Asset Management underlying profit 89 108 Expected return on net pension liability 9 2 Expected return on corporate net assets 10 7 Corporate costs 13 12 Operating assumption changes for corporate costs 3 Underlying profit before tax 509 524 Investment return variances 174 550 Effect of economic assumption changes 181 238 Non-recurring items 17 59 Amortisation of Asset Management acquired intangible assets 43 56 Impairment of Asset Management acquired intangible assets 58 112 Variation in value of option on convertible debt 9 Profit before tax 398 600 Tax 101 196 Profit after tax 297 404 Attributable to: Ordinary shareholders of the parent 308 441 Minority interest 11 37 Profit after tax 297 404 Earnings per share 2006 2005 pence pence Basic earnings per share 14.6 21.2 Diluted basic earnings per share 14.2 21.0 Underlying earnings per share 16.4 16.3 EEV underlying profit is a measure of profit which excludes profit generated within policyholder funds that is not allocated to shareholders.
Management consider that underlying profit better reflects the performance of the Group and focus on this measure of profit in its internal monitoring of the Groups EEV results.
EEV underlying profit is based on expected investment return and excludes: i amortisation and impairment of Asset Management acquired intangible assets ii effect of economic assumption changes iii non-recurring items: and is stated after deducting interest payable on Step-up Tier one Insurance Capital Securities STICS.
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense on an EEV basis For the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 m m Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans net of tax 8 28 Foreign exchange adjustments 2 9 Net loss recognised directly in equity 10 37 Profit after tax 297 404 Total recognised income and expense for the year 287 367 Attributable to: Ordinary shareholders of the parent 300 417 Minority interest 13 50 Total recognised income and expense for the year 287 367 18 17446 WL review.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 19 Consolidated movement in ordinary shareholders equity on an EEV basis For the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 m m Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent 300 417 Dividends on equity shares 164 157 Share based payments impact on EEV reserves 12 14 Earn-out payments 87 - Conversion option on convertible bond 51 Increase in EEV reserves for the year 61 325 Increase as a result of business combinations 148 Share based payments impact on share capital and share premium 13 5 Net addition to ordinary shareholders equity 74 478 At 1 January 3,446 2,968 At 31 December 3,520 3,446 Consolidated balance sheet on an EEV basis At 31 December 2006 2006 2005 m m Assets Value of in-force Life & Pensions business 2,031 2,019 Intangible assets 676 807 Property and equipment 80 73 Investment properties 2,426 1,912 Investments in associates and joint venture 15 14 Financial assets 45,150 42,091 Reinsurance assets 98 128 Current tax assets 30 25 Insurance and other receivables 647 640 Cash and cash equivalents 3,581 2,614 Total assets 54,734 50,323 Liabilities Insurance contracts 13,762 14,637 Fund for future appropriations 439 420 Financial liabilities: Investment contracts 32,451 27,539 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2,045 2,099 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 941 751 Provisions 187 265 Deferred tax liabilities 166 125 Current tax liabilities 116 177 Insurance payables, other payables and deferred income 559 422 Total liabilities 50,666 46,435 Equity attributable to: Ordinary shareholders of the parent 3,520 3,446 Minority interest 548 442 Total equity 4,068 3,888 Total equity and liabilities 54,734 50,323 19 17446 WL review.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 20 IFRS Summary Financial Statements Summary consolidated income statement on an IFRS basis For the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 m m Net earned premiums 896 921 Fee and commission income and income from service activities 565 483 Investment income 3,697 6,287 Total revenue 5,158 7,691 Net claims and benefits paid 1,544 1,532 Movement in policyholder liabilities 2,006 4,659 Expenses and finance costs 1,118 1,133 Total claims, benefits and expenses 4,668 7,324 Share of profit of associates and joint venture 1 - Profit before tax from continuing operations 491 367 Taxation 70 178 Profit after tax from continuing operations 421 189 Profit after tax from discontinued operations 8 Profit for the year 421 197 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent: i Ordinary shareholders 276 132 Other equity holders 52 37 328 169 Minority interest 93 28 Profit for the year 421 197 Earnings per share 2006 2005 pence pence Basic earnings per share from continuning operations 13.1 6.3 Diluted basic earnings per share from continuing operations 12.8 6.3 i All profit attributable to equity holders of the parent is from continuing operations.
Dividends paid and proposed on ordinary shares 2006 2005 m m Final dividend in respect of 2005 and paid in May 2006 of 5.1p per share in respect of 2004 and paid in May 2005 of 5.0p per share 108 103 Interim dividend in respect of 2006 and paid in November 2006 of 2.65p per share in respect of 2005 and paid in November 2005 of 2.6p per share 56 54 Total dividends paid 164 157 After the balance sheet date the dividends set out below were proposed by the directors.
In accordance with IAS 10 these have not been provided as a liability at the balance sheet date.
2006 2005 m m Final dividend in respect of 2006 payable in May 2007 of 5.2p per share in respect of 2005 and paid in May 2006 of 5.1p per share 111 108 The 2006 final dividend was based on 2,136m shares estimated to be in issue at the dividend payment date excluding treasury shares.
The 2005 final dividend was based on 2,114m shares excluding treasury shares.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 21 Consolidated underlying profit before tax on an IFRS basis For the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 491 367 Policyholder tax 124 218 Returns on Group-controlled funds attributable to third parties 104 57 Profit before tax excluding profit generated within policyholder funds 263 92 Non-recurring items 17 59 Amortisation of Asset Management acquired intangible assets 43 56 Amortisation of acquired present value of in-force business 25 28 Amortisation of Life & Pensions acquired intangible assets 7 7 Impairment of Asset Management acquired intangible assets 58 112 Interest payable on STICS 52 37 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 39 102 Variation in value of option on convertible debt 9 Underlying profit before tax 400 224 Tax on underlying profit 6 5 Minority interest in underlying profit 29 36 Underlying profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent 377 183 Earnings per share Underlying earnings per share pence 17.9 8.8 IFRS underlying profit is a measure of profit which excludes profit generated within policyholder funds that is not allocated to shareholders.
Management consider that underlying profit better reflects the performance of the Group and focus on this measure of profit in its internal monitoring of the Groups IFRS results.
IFRS underlying profit is based on longer-term investment return and excludes: i policyholder tax ii returns attributable to minority interests in policyholder funds iii non-recurring items iv amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets and present value of acquired in-force business: and is stated after deducting interest payable on STICS.
Included in profit before tax from continuing operations, and underlying profit before tax, are one-off items relating to basis changes and the partial adoption of FSA Policy Statement PS06 14, Prudential Changes for Insurers, which have increased profit by 156m in 2006.
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense on an IFRS basis For the year ended 31 December 2006 Equity holders Equity holders Total equity of the parent of the parent holders of Minority ordinary shares STICS the parent interest Total m m m m m Actuarial losses on defined benefit schemes net of tax 8 - 8 1 7 Foreign exchange adjustments 10 - 10 2 12 Revaluation of owner occupied properties 6- 6 - 6 Shadow accounting 6 - 6 - 6 Net expense recognised directly in equity 18 - 18 1 19 Profit for the year 276 52 328 93 421 Total recognised income and expense for the year 258 52 310 92 402 For the year ended 31 December 2005 Actuarial losses on defined benefit schemes net of tax 18 - 18 10 28 Foreign exchange adjustments 7 - 7 1 8 Net expense recognised directly in equity 25 - 25 11 36 Profit for the year 132 37 169 28 197 Total recognised income and expense for the year 107 37 144 17 161 21 17446 WL review.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 22 IFRS Summary Financial Statements Consolidated balance sheet on an IFRS basis At 31 December 2006 2006 2005 m m Assets Intangible assets 1,405 1,590 Property and equipment 80 73 Investment properties 2,426 1,912 Investments in associates and joint venture 15 14 Financial assets 45,150 42,091 Deferred acquisition costs 1,111 994 Reinsurance assets 85 183 Current tax assets 30 25 Insurance and other receivables 606 590 Cash and cash equivalents 3,581 2,614 Total assets 54,489 50,086 Liabilities Insurance contracts 13,762 14,637 Fund for future appropriations 439 420 Financial liabilities: Investment contracts 32,821 27,857 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1,130 1,155 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 941 751 Provisions 215 364 Deferred tax liabilities 318 288 Current tax liabilities 116 177 Insurance payables, other payables and deferred income 582 497 Total liabilities 50,324 46,146 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Attributable to ordinary shareholders: Share capital 214 214 Share premium 2,051 2,038 Other reserves 542 436 2,807 2,688 Attributable to other equity holders 810 810 3,617 3,498 Minority interest 548 442 Total equity 4,165 3,940 Total equity and liabilities 54,489 50,086 Approved by the Board on 19 March 2007.
Jim Smart Group Finance Director 22 17446 WL review.
qxd 30 3 07 04:34 Page 23 Statements of the Independent Auditor Statement of the Independent Auditor to the members of Friends Provident plc pursuant to section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 We have examined the summary financial statement set out on the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent pages 20 to 22.
This statement is made solely to the Companys misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the financial statement.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members those matters we are Basis of opinion required to state to them in such a statement and for no other We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept auditor's statement on the summary financial statement issued by or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our the Company's members as a body, for our work, for this report on the Group's full annual financial statements describes the statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with Summary Financial Statements in accordance with applicable the full annual financial statements on an IFRS basis, the directors United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our report and the directors remuneration report of Friends Provident opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 and complies with the within the Annual Review for Shareholders and Summary Financial applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 Statements with the full annual financial statements on an IFRS and the regulations made thereunder.
basis, the Directors Report and the Remuneration Report of the Board, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor, London We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review 19 March 2007 for Shareholders and Summary Financial Statements and consider Statement of the Independent Auditor of Friends Provident plc We have examined the EEV Summary Financial Statements We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review of Friends Provident plc set out on pages 18 and 19. for Shareholders and Summary Financial Statements and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent This statement is made solely to the Company in accordance with misstatements or material inconsistencies with the EEV Summary our terms of engagement.
Our work has been undertaken so that Financial Statements.
we might state to the Company those matters we are required to state in this statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Basis of opinion extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 'The to anyone other than the Company for our work, for this auditor's statement on the summary financial statement' issued by the statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the Groups full EEV basis supplementary information describes the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors basis of our audit opinion on that supplementary information.
The directors have accepted responsibility for preparing the EEV Summary Financial Statements within the Annual Review for Opinion Shareholders and Summary Financial Statements.
In our opinion, the EEV Summary Financial Statements are consistent with the full EEV basis supplementary information in the Groups Under the terms of our engagement, our responsibility is to report to Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006. the Company our opinion on the consistency of the EEV Summary Financial Statements with the full EEV basis supplementary information set out in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts and prepared in accordance with the European Embedded Value principles KPMG Audit Plc issued in May 2004 by the CFO Forum as supplemented by the Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor, London Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures 19 March 2007 issued in October 2005.
qxd 29 3 07 03:11 Page 24 How would your family cope if you could no longer support them financially?
The Friends Provident Select Protection Plan Shareholder information You insure your property, your furnishings and your car.
Registrar But have you insured yourself to help make sure the Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing BN99 6DA people you care about the most are looked after if you die Telephone: 08706 094534 UK or were unable to work through illness or involuntary 44 121 415 7109 overseas unemployment?
After all, cars and furniture, even houses Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm can always be replaced.
So give yourself and Website: www.
co. uk your loved ones added peace of mind by insuring yourself financially against the unexpected, such as serious illness, Shareholder enquiries You should contact the Registrar if you: accident, redundancy or death.
It could be the most have any questions regarding your shareholding comforting purchase you ever make.
have any questions regarding your dividend payments The Friends Provident Select Protection Plan offers financial wish to participate in the dividend re-investment plan protection against some unexpected events that might have lost your Share Account Statement or share certificate befall you or your partner.
Answer the following questions have changed your name or address and if the answer is no or dont know, then Friends wish to transfer your shares into someone elses name or joint names Provident can help to turn it into a yes.
The Registrar offers the following share dealing services If you were to die unexpectedly, would your family By post: If dealing by post, you will need to complete a form and be able to meet their financial commitments without send it to the Registrar rather than just instruct them in writing of your income?
The form is available on our website Could you cope financially if your partner were to die www.
com investor or can be requested from the postal sharedealing helpline on 08706 060302 or become ill for a long time?
By telephone: Call Shareview Dealing, a telephone dealing service Would your family be able to pay off the mortgage if provided by the Registrar, on 08453 002946 you die?
Monday to Friday 8.00am to 6.00pm If you were off work for more than three months due to Please have your Shareholder Account Number to hand illness or injury, would you or your family be able to By internet: Shareview Dealing is also available online at continue with your current standard of living?
Please have your Shareholder Account Number to hand Would you or your family be able to pay the household Latest share price information bills if you were made redundant?
com shareprice WHAT TO DO NEXT... Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP If you answered no or dont know to any of the From the 2006 final dividend payment, through DRIP, you can use your above questions heres what to do next.
dividends to buy shares in Friends Provident plc.
In order to participate in DRIP in time for the 2006 final dividend payment, Lloyds TSB Registrars If you already have a financial adviser, simply contact must receive your instruction no later than 25 April 2007.
For future them and they can give you more details.
dividends, your instruction must be received 15 working days before the relevant dividend payment date.
Before making a decision to join If you dont have a financial adviser, please call us on DRIP, you should first read the terms and conditions that were sent to 0800 00 00 80 quoting V87.
shareholders with the interim dividend mailing in November 2006.
This line is open from 8am to 8pm Monday to Friday.
For your protection The terms and conditions are also available to download and view at all telephone calls will be recorded and or regularly monitored.
We can only give financial advice on the Friends Provident range of protection plans.
Friends Provident plc Registered and Head Office: Print by ISO 14001-certified Beacon Press.
Pixham End, Dorking, Surrey RH4 1QA Design and production by Flag Communication Incorporated company limited by shares and registered in England number 4113107 Ref: XG329 Version 03.07
