qxp 30 3 07 01:37 Page 133 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 27.
Insurance contracts a Changes in insurance contracts liabilities Insurance contracts and investment contracts with a DPF element are measured using the same accounting policies.
These are consistent with those previously adopted under MSS, as allowed under IFRS 4, and amended following the adoption of the principles contained in FRS 27.
Investment contracts with DPF are mainly unitised with-profits contracts.
The following table shows the movements in insurance contracts liabilities in the year: 2006 2005 m m At 1 January 14,637 14,047 Increase in liability from premiums 783 883 Release of liability due to recorded claims 1,506 1,513 Unwinding of discount 187 206 Change in assumptions: Economic 254 256 Non-economic 405 172 Other movements including net investment return 320 930 At 31 December 13,762 14,637 A liability adequacy test was carried out at policy level and resulted in no additional provision in either 2005 or 2006.
No significant gain or loss arose on reinsurance contracts incepted in either 2005 or 2006.
It should be noted that changes in the economic assumptions will be largely offset by corresponding changes in the assets backing the liabilities.
In addition, assumption changes on with-profits contracts will result in changes in the FFA, and not in retained earnings.
The main items within non-economic assumption changes in 2006 relate to one-off items as set out in note 2 h. The non-economic assumption changes in 2005 includes a 41m reduction as a result of more accurate modelling of the Guaranteed Annuity Option take-up rate in the Realistic Balance Sheet and a 68m reduction as a result of receiving confirmation that rules in PS05 01 relating to surrender payments do not override the Scheme of Demutualisation.
The main items within Other movements including net investment return were: 546m 2005: 1,058m in respect of the investment return credited to asset shares and unit-linked liabilities.
Movements in respect of the release of liability due to favourable mortality experience variances and other items.
b Terms and conditions of insurance contracts The main types of insurance contracts that the Group currently has in force are: i Life Protection business other than whole life products these consist mainly of regular premium term assurance, critical illness and income protection products, which pay out a fixed amount the sum assured on ill health or death.
For most policies this payout will be a single amount, whereas income protection products provide a regular income upon incapacity either for the length of illness or to the end of the contract if earlier, depending on the specific policyholder terms.
Most contracts have no surrender value.
Endowments and whole life products these contracts both provide benefits upon death or, in the case of endowments, at a preset maturity date if earlier.
These policies often have a surrender value, particularly in the later years of the contract.
The amount payable on death is subject to a guaranteed minimum amount.
The maturity value usually depends on the investment performance of the underlying assets.
For with-profits business it is underpinned by a minimum guarantee, which may be increased by the addition of bonuses.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 133 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 134 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS IFRS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued c Method used for reserving for both insurance 27.
Insurance contracts continued contracts and investment contracts with DPF ii Pensions The liability for insurance contracts and unitised with-profits Individual and group pensions those contracts classified as contracts is calculated on the basis of recognised actuarial methods insurance contracts are deferred annuity products where retirement having due regard to actuarial principles and best practice.
The benefits are expressed in the form of the annuity payable at methodology takes into account risks and uncertainties of the retirement age.
If death occurs before retirement, contracts particular classes of long-term business written and the results are generally return the value of the fund accumulated or in some cases certified by the professionals undertaking the valuations.
Calculations are generally made on an individual policy basis, Most contracts give the policyholder the option at retirement to take however in addition there are some global provisions which are a cash sum at guaranteed conversion rates.
calculated using statistical or mathematical methods.
The results are expected to be approximately the same as if an individual liability Annuities in payment these are typically single premium products, was calculated for each long-term contract.
which pay a specified payment to the policyholder whilst they and or their spouse are still alive.
Payments are generally either fixed or For the conventional with-profits business in FPLP, including unitised increased each year at a specified rate or in line with the rate of with-profits business, the liabilities are determined on a realistic inflation.
Most contracts guarantee an income for a minimum period basis and in accordance with the principles contained in FRS 27.
The usually of five years, irrespective of death.
main element of the realistic liabilities is the asset shares of withprofits business, representing the premiums received to date iii Guarantees and options together with the investment return earned less expenses and The main guarantees and options included within the Groups charges.
These asset shares move with the value of the underlying insurance contracts, the majority of which arise within FPLPs Withassets.
Policyholder liabilities, including options and guarantees Profits Fund, are as follows: arising in the With-Profits Fund, are then valued on a marketconsistent stochastic basis.
The main types of guarantees and Guaranteed cash and annuity options most conventional deferred options within the With-Profits Fund are guarantees in respect of annuity contracts have benefits expressed in terms of cash and bonus additions and guaranteed annuity options.
The calculation of annuity with a guaranteed conversion rate, allowing the policyholder liabilities and management actions that would be taken in certain the option of taking the more valuable of the two at retirement.
scenarios is also in accordance with FPLPs Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM and are set out in more detail in Guarantees in respect of bonus additions bonuses added to withnote 28 on the Realistic Balance Sheet.
profits policies increase the guaranteed minimum benefit that policyholders are entitled to at maturity.
These are set at a level that For the conventional with-profits business in FPLA which is closed takes account of expected market fluctuations, such that the cost of to new business, the liabilities are determined using a net premium the guarantee is generally met by the investment performance of valuation method.
The majority of options or guarantees arising the assets backing the liability.
However in circumstances where within this fund are valuable to the policyholder and are valued on a there has been a significant fall in investment markets, such as that deterministic basis as if the guarantee is taken up.
which occurred in 2001 to 2003, the guaranteed maturity benefits may exceed asset shares and these guarantees become valuable to Single premium group income protection contracts have been the policyholder.
valued as 90% of the last three years premiums plus an allowance for outstanding claims in respect of earlier premiums.
Guaranteed surrender bases certain older products have a guaranteed basis for calculating surrender values.
In all these cases The calculation of liabilities to policyholders in respect of most other the basis includes an element of final bonus which can be reduced non-profit policies, which consists principally of protection and or taken away.
The guaranteed basis typically applies over a period annuity products, has been valued using a gross premium method.
of 15 years but in most cases policies are approaching the end of this period.
The effect of the guaranteed surrender basis is to extend The provision for linked contracts meeting the definition of insurance the guarantee in respect of bonus additions to apply over an is equal to the value of units plus a sterling reserve where extended period and not just at the maturity date.
The sterling reserve is equal to the maximum value of future strains due to future cash outflows premium allocations, expenses, claims and tax being greater than future cash inflows premiums, investment income and charges.
Where reinsurance relates to individual policies they are valued using the same method and basis as if they were the direct benefit.
An asset is established representing the fact that the reinsurance will reduce the net cost of the policy to the Group.
134 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 135 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 27.
Insurance contracts continued d Process used for assumptions i Economic assumptions Details regarding the economic assumptions used in the stochastic model for the valuation of with-profits policyholders liabilities are set out in note 28.
For other insurance liabilities and unitised with-profits contracts within the FPLA fund, economic assumptions are the same as those used for reporting to the FSA under the regulatory peak.
Economic assumptions are adjusted from year to year by reference to changes in consistent economic indices or yields on the underlying portfolio.
The principal assumption is the valuation interest rate.
ii Non-economic assumptions The provision for insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF liabilities is sensitive to the principal assumptions in respect of mortality, morbidity and maintenance expenses except for net premium valuations, persistency and guaranteed annuity option take-up rates, although the relative sensitivity will vary depending on the class of long-term business.
Long-term estimates of future mortality and morbidity assumptions are based on standard tables wherever possible but adjusted to reflect the Groups own experience.
Where appropriate industry tables are not available and the Groups experience is insufficient to derive a reliable basis eg for critical illness the experience of reinsurers is used.
Expense assumptions are based on recent experience.
Experience investigations for mortality, morbidity, persistency, guaranteed annuity option take-up rates and maintenance expenses are performed at least annually.
Where industry analysis indicates that changes in expected future mortality morbidity or other assumptions factor patterns mean that claim costs are likely to rise in the future, then this is taken into account in the valuation basis.
No benefit is taken where industry analysis indicates that future trends are likely to reduce claim costs in the future.
Improving mortality has been assumed when valuing annuities and deteriorating morbidity has been assumed when valuing critical illness business.
Assumptions are generally intended to be a prudent estimate of future experience.
e Valuation interest rates for policies other than conventional with-profits business in FPLP Valuation interest rates With-profits Non-profit 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 2006 2005 Class of business % % % % Life Fund: Endowment and whole-of-life 2.9 2.7 3.1 2.9 Protection - - 3.1 2.9 Pension Fund: Annuities in payment - - 4.24.56 4.0 Individual and group pensions 3.7 3.4 3.9 3.6 Protection - - 3.9 3.6 Income protection - - 3.8 3.4 As explained in c above, FPLP conventional with-profits business is valued in accordance with the FSAs realistic capital regulations.
For products with overall negative liabilities the interest rate used in 2006 is 5.6%.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 135 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 136 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS IFRS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 27.
Insurance contracts continued f Mortality morbidity rates Insurance liabilities allow for mortality and morbidity risk by making assumptions about the proportion of policyholders who die or become sick.
Allowance for future mortality has been made using the following percentages of the standard published tables below: 2006 2005 Term assurances: Smoker 95% TM92 5 100% TM92 5 116% TF92 5 110% TF92 5 Non-smoker 58% TM92 5 65% TM92 5 74% TF92 5 85% TF92 5 Other life assurances 80% AM F80ult 80% AM F80ult Unitised life policies 80% AM F80ult 80% AM F80ult Pension policies 35% AM F80ult 35% AM F80ult Individual annuities: in payment 75% RM FV92U2006 75% RM FV92U2005 Group annuities: in payment 95% PM FA92U2006 95% PM FA92U2005 Plus additional 0.25% per annum and 0.5% per annum for individuals and group males only respectively from 31 December 2003 onwards.
Income protection sickness experience is based on recent experience with a 10% margin 2005: 10% margin for recovery rates, and a 10% margin 2005: 39% margin for inception rates.
Rates differentiate by smoker status.
Lapse rates are based on recent experience with the equivalent of a 20% margin, ie for each policy the liability is based on the higher of the results based on 80% and 120% of experience.
g Increase decrease in pre-tax shareholder profit from changes in assumptions 2006 2005 m m Mortality and morbidity 127 20 Other non-economic assumptions 106 58 Total assumption changes 233 38 This table shows the effect on pre-tax profit of the changes in assumptions described above.
i Impacts are reduced to allow for with-profits policyholders sharing in the profits and losses of some products see h. ii Changes in the economic assumptions will be largely offset by corresponding changes in the assets backing the liabilities.
iii The most significant item within mortality and morbidity assumption changes relates to morbidity assumptions.
Further details of the impact of changes in morbidity assumptions in 2006 are set out in note 2 h. iv The main item within other non-economic assumption changes in 2006 is the impact of partial adoption of PS06 14, being a reduction in policyholder liabilities and reinsurance assets, as set out in note 2 h. h Apportionment of surplus between shareholders and with-profits policyholders Shareholders are entitled to 100% of surplus emerging from companies within the Group, with the exception of surplus emerging in the two with-profits funds.
i The Groups main With-Profits Fund is within FPLP, and is open to new business.
The Fund is run on a mutual basis and managed so that over time the working capital is sufficient to provide most of the risk capital but not to exceed the risk capital margin.
The entitlements of shareholders to share in surplus differ for policies written before and after demutualisation on 9 July 2001.
In respect of pre-demutualisation conventional with-profits policies, shareholders are entitled to one ninth of the cost of bonuses added to policies.
In respect of pre-demutualisation non-profit and unitised business excluding the investment element, shareholders are entitled to 60% of the surplus arising.
136 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006
