qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 169 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the EEV results It is currently expected that the final consideration in respect of the 1.
Methodology Lombard acquisition will be settled by way of shares and cash.
Provision has been made in 2006 for the estimated cash element of 1.1 Basis of preparation the final earn-out payment.
The EEV results presented in this document have been prepared in accordance with the European Insurers Chief Financial Officers The shareholders net worth includes the corporate debt of the Group.
Forums EEV Principles issued in May 2004 and the Additional This debt is valued at market value, consistent with the EEV guidance.
They provide supplementary information for the year ended 31 December 2006.
EEV and other balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies have been translated to sterling using the appropriate The EEV basis of reporting is designed to recognise profit as it is closing exchange rate.
The new business contribution and other earned over the term of the policy.
The total profit recognised over income statement items have been translated using an average the lifetime of the policy is the same as that recognised under the exchange rate for the relevant period.
IFRS basis of reporting, but the timing of recognition is different.
1.2 Covered business The reported embedded value provides an estimate of the value of The covered business incorporates the Life & Pensions business shareholders interest in the covered business, excluding any value defined as long-term business by UK and overseas regulators.
that may be generated from future new business.
This value comprises the sum of the shareholders net worth, the provision for The Asset Management business is not included in the definition of future corporate costs and the value of existing business.
shareholders net worth is the net assets attributable to shareholders, and is represented by the sum of required capital and free surplus.
1.3 Allowance for risk The value of existing business is the present value of the projected stream of future distributable profits available to shareholders from The allowance for risk in the shareholder cash flows is a key feature the existing business at the valuation date, on a best estimate basis of the EEV Principles.
The EEV guidance sets out three main areas allowing for risk, adjusted for the cost of holding required capital.
available to allow for risk in an embedded value: the risk discount rate: The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the the allowance for the cost of financial options and guarantees: Groups IFRS results.
These contain information regarding the Groups the cost of holding both prudential reserves and any additional financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS issued by the required capital.
International Accounting Standards Board and adopted for use in the EU.
The market-consistent approach has been used to allow for risk in all The results for covered business as reported under EEV principles three areas.
are combined with the results for the remainder of the business reported in accordance with IFRS, except where EEV principles 1.4 Deriving risk discount rates dictate otherwise.
In particular the EEV principles have been applied A market-consistent embedded value has been calculated for each to reflect Step-up Tier one Insurance Capital Securities STICS as product line by valuing the cash flows in line with the prices of debt rather than equity.
similar cash flows traded on the open market.
In addition, a pro forma embedded value is reported showing In principle, each cash flow is valued using the discount rate ordinary shareholders funds on an EEV basis adjusted to include the consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital F&C listed subsidiary at market value.
For example, an equity cash flow is valued using an equity risk discount rate, and a bond cash flow is valued using a bond risk Shareholders net assets on an EEV basis for the Group consist of discount rate.
If a higher return is assumed for equities, the equity the following: cash flow is discounted at this higher rate.
Life & Pensions net assets: the Groups share of its investment in the Asset Management In practice, for liabilities where the payouts are either independent or business including the net pension liability on an IFRS basis: move linearly with market movements, a method known as the corporate net assets: certainty equivalent approach has been applied whereby all the net pension liability of FPPS on an IAS 19 basis but, in 2005, assumed assets earn the risk-free rate and all cash flows are including holdings in non-transferable securities issued by the discounted using the risk-free rate.
This gives the same result as Group both net of deferred tax : applying the method in the previous paragraph.
the provision for future corporate costs: the present value of future profits attributable to shareholders from existing policies of the Life & Pensions business.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 169
