qxp 28 3 07 22:06 Page 186 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS IFRS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST ST AA TEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the parent company accounts 1.2.
Accounting policies Investments are shown in the balance sheet as follows: 1.1 Basis of preparation i Unlisted investments are valued by the directors, having regard Friends Provident plc the Company is a limited liability company, to their likely realisable value.
incorporated in the UK, whose shares are publicly traded.
ii Listed and other quoted investments, including those in participating interests, are carried at bid value at the balance The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with sheet date.
applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost iii Shares in Group undertakings are stated at current value.
convention as modified by the revaluation of investments as set out Revaluation gains and temporary diminutions in value are in note 1.2.
3. recognised as a transfer to the revaluation reserve.
Revaluation losses, and their reversal, are recognised in the The Company has continued to present individual financial profit and loss account.
statements prepared on a UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice basis as permitted by section 226 A and Schedule 4 to the 1.2.
4 Share based payments Companies Act 1985 of adopting the exemption of omitting the profit and loss account as permitted by section 230 of that Act.
The Company operates share based payment schemes for employees of the Group, depending on eligibility.
The fair value of these equityAll accounting policies have been reviewed for appropriateness in settled share based payments is measured at the grant date, and the accordance with Financial Reporting Standards.
cost is borne by the subsidiary companies.
The fair value is added to the cost of the Companys investments in its subsidiary undertakings In accordance with FRS 1, the Company is exempt from the and a corresponding credit is made to reserves.
requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that this is provided in its consolidated financial statements.
5 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at cost, being the fair value of the 1.2 Significant accounting policies consideration received, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
1 Investment return proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is Investment return excludes revaluation of group investments, and recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the includes dividends, interest, rents, gains and losses on the realisation borrowings, using the effective interest method.
of assets and unrealised gains and losses.
Such income includes any withholding tax but excludes other tax credits, such as attributable Convertible notes that can be converted to share capital at the tax credits.
Income from fixed-interest securities together with option of the holder, where the number of shares issued does not interest, rents, and associated expenses are accounted for in the vary with changes in their fair value, are accounted for as compound period in which they accrue.
Dividends are included in the profit and financial instruments.
Compound financial instruments are split and loss account when the securities are listed as ex-dividend.
Realised recorded respectively within each of its two components, equity and gains or losses on investments are calculated as the difference liability.
Transaction costs that relate to the issue of a compound between the net sale proceeds and original cost.
Unrealised gains financial instrument are also allocated to the equity and liability and losses on investments represent the difference between the components in proportion to the allocation of proceeds.
The equity valuation of investments at the balance sheet date and their original components of the convertible notes are calculated as the excess of cost, or if they have been previously revalued, the valuation at the the issue proceeds over the present value of the future interest and last balance sheet date.
The movement in unrealised gains and principal payments, discounted at the market rate of interest losses recognised in the period also includes the reversal of applicable to similar liabilities that do not have a conversion option.
unrealised gains and losses recognised in earlier accounting periods The equity component is recognised and included in shareholders in respect of disposals in the current period.
equity, net of tax effects.
The fair value of the liability component is recorded on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on 1.2.
2 Taxation conversion or maturity of the bonds.
Taxation is based on profits and income for the period as determined The interest expense recognised in the profit and loss account under in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, the movement in interest payable is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
deferred tax and adjustments to prior periods tax.
186 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006
