qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 143 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 29.
Capital statement continued e Movement in available capital At 31 December 2006 total available Life & Pensions capital resources had increased by 7m to 2,474m, as shown below.
Overseas Life & Total UK withUK withUK nonLife & Pensions Life & profits profitsparticipating Pensionsshareholders Pensions FPLP FPLA funds funds funds business m m m m m m At 1 January 2006 236 118 814 56 1,243 2,467 New business strain - - 297 35 - 332 Surplus in year 4 25 155 49 73 298 Assumption changes: - PS 06 14 - - 123 - - 123 - Morbidity basis - - 123 - - 123 - Other 12 1 6 1 - 8 Transfers - - 200 25 225 - Dividend and STICS interest - - - - 197 197 At 31 December 2006 220 142 724 44 1,344 2,474 All tax items are included within Surplus in year.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks The Groups risk management policies and the processes for identifying risks across the Group, including strategic and operational risks, are described in the Corporate governance report.
These processes include identification and control of financial, insurance, and other risks, the key components of which are: Market risk the risk of loss arising from changes in the values of, or income from, assets or in interest or exchange rates.
A risk of loss also arises from changes in the volatility of asset prices, interest rates or exchange rates.
Insurance risk the risk of loss due to the inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, amounts and timing of insurance liabilities.
Credit risk the risk of loss due to the default of a company, individual or country, or a change in investors risk appetite.
Liquidity risk the risk of loss because a firm, although solvent, either does not have sufficient financial resources available to it in order to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
For each of the above risks, the Group determines its risk appetite and sets its investment and underwriting policies accordingly.
The Group companies set their respective qualitative risk appetites in a range from no appetite for the risk, through to actively pursuing those risks where they have competitive advantage.
Risk policy is documented in each of the above areas, including the actions to mitigate those risks.
A summary of how each risk is mitigated is provided below with, where appropriate, quantitative information on the exposure to that risk.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 143 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 144 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS IFRS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 30.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued a Market risk Market risk includes equity and property risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk.
The Group manages market risk attaching to assets backing specific policyholder liabilities and to assets held to deliver income and gains for the shareholder.
Within the unit-linked funds and with-profits funds, the Group manages market risk so as to provide a return in line with the expectations of policyholders.
The principal objective for shareholder assets is to manage them so that they meet the capital requirements of the Group, and support its future strategic and operational objectives.
Appetite for market risk varies for different asset classes and by the nature of the liabilities or funds that they represent.
For example, in the Life & Pensions business, in relation to equity risk, appetite varies from taking on the risk when it is beneficial to do so for shareholder earnings at risk from annual management charges on unit-linked policies to avoiding risk wherever possible for assets backing non-linked, non-profit policies.
For assets backing policyholder liabilities, market risk is managed by matching, where possible, the duration and profile of assets to the policyholder liabilities they are backing.
This helps manage market risk to the extent that changes in the values of assets are matched by a corresponding movement in the values of liabilities.
Market risk arises on guarantees and options offered on certain of the Groups products.
As described within the section on policyholder liabilities see note 27, the Group is exposed to guarantees on bonus additions that become more valuable as investment values fall.
In addition, the Group is exposed to guaranteed cash and annuity options on certain pension policies that become more valuable as interest rates fall.
Shareholders earnings are further exposed to market risk to the extent that the income from policyholder funds is based on the value of financial assets held within those unit-linked or with-profits funds.
Within F&C, there is no net market risk in relation to customer assets because the risk is fully borne by the clients concerned.
Other assets and liabilities do not expose the Asset Management business to significant market risk.
F&C actively pursues market risk in relation to the impact on management fees of movements in market variables such as equity prices and interest rates.
The following summarises the key actions undertaken by the Group to manage all aspects of market risk: The Group Board Investment Committee oversees investment policy and strategy, which the Group actions primarily through the use of investment fund mandates.
Day-to-day implementation of investment policy and strategy is managed predominantly by F&C in line with these approved mandates, subject to robust monitoring by the Group.
Mandates are set for each relevant fund within each of the insurance legal entities within the Group taking account of the relevant factors outlined above.
Unit-linked funds are managed in line with their underlying objectives.
The mandates set limits on the level of market risk permitted using some or all of the following mechanisms: defined performance benchmarks a maximum proportion of the fund that can be held in equities and, for with-profits funds, a minimum level restrictions on the size of companies within which equity investment can be held eg potentially restricting UK equity to FTSE 100 stocks defined asset allocations between UK and overseas equity exposure in specific regions restrictions on the variation of the duration of the portfolio of bonds from the benchmark duration.
Equity derivatives are permitted to be held to facilitate efficient portfolio management or to reduce investment risk without disproportionately increasing other types of risk, and appropriate approval must be obtained for their use.
Currency forwards and other derivatives may be held to manage currency risk, but only if permitted by individual fund mandates.
In addition to the mandates, the Group undertakes a programme of asset liability management.
For example, in order to manage the impact of interest changes on profit, corporate bonds and gilts are held to match the duration of annuity and permanent health insurance policies.
This provides matching of cash flows and valuation movements and is supplemented by the use of interest rate swaps to improve asset liability matching as necessary.
144 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 145 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 30.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued In order to manage the exposure arising from guarantees and options, the Group purchases a number of derivatives, including interest rate swaps, equity put options, interest rate swaptions, and equity futures to manage exposures to movements in equity prices or interest rates.
Hedge accounting has not been applied to these derivatives, as movements in the fair value of these instruments will be offset by the movement in the valuation of the liability.
As noted, the majority of these guarantees arise within FPLPs With-Profits Fund and so any net fair value movement will be reflected in the FFA rather than within shareholders funds.
The following provides additional information on the exposure to equity and property risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk: i Equity and property risk For with-profits and unit-linked policies, the policyholders bear the majority of the investment risk and any change in asset values is matched by a broadly equivalent change in the liability.
Shareholder funds invest in equities and are subject to risk from fluctuation in their value.
Charges which are expressed as a percentage of fund are also impacted.
The approximate impact of a 10% change in equity and property values on post-tax shareholder profits and equity is 53m 2005: 72m.
ii Foreign exchange risk The Group invests in financial instruments denominated in currencies other than its measurement currency pounds sterling.
Consequently, the Group is exposed to the risk that the exchange rate of its presentation currency relative to other currencies may change in a manner that has an adverse effect on the value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities.
For unit-linked contracts, currency risk is borne by the policyholder.
As noted above, the shareholders are subject to currency risk only to the extent that income from policyholder funds is based on the value of the financial assets held in those funds.
The liability for non-linked insurance contracts in currencies other than sterling is immaterial.
The impact of exchange rate movements on F&C is minimised by repatriation of excess foreign currency funds to sterling, and by holding regulatory capital in the local currency.
iii Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to fair value interest rate risk where changes to interest rates result in changes to fair values rather than cash flows, for example fixed interest rate loans and assets and derivatives that convert floating rate interest payments to fixed rates.
Conversely, floating rate loans and derivatives that convert fixed interest rates to floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The following table shows effective interest rates for those financial instruments held at amortised cost and hence where such a rate is deemed applicable.
2006 2005 % % Assets Cash and cash equivalents 4.56 4.64 Liabilities 215m Undated subordinated guaranteed bonds - 9.13 260m Floating rate subordinated loan notes 6.75 - 380m Floating rate secured notes 4.95 4.98 230m Secured bonds 5.23 5.23 290m Convertible bonds 5.25 5.25 Bank overdrafts 5.64 5.63 If interest rates increased by 1% across the whole yield curve there would be a fall in the value of fixed interest assets but the discount rate for valuing liabilities would be increased to partially offset the impact.
The net effect of a 1% increase in interest rates at all terms would reduce post-tax profit and equity by about 92m 2005: 86m.
The impact of a 1% reduction in interest rates would be to increase post-tax profit and equity by about 110m 2005: 79m.
The following table indicates the contractual re-pricing dates for the Groups significant financial assets and liabilities and insurance and investment contracts that are exposed to interest rate risk there were no instances where the re-pricing dates were before maturity dates.
Assets and liabilities held within unit-linked funds where all financial risks are borne by the policyholder are excluded from the table below, as are any assets not directly exposed to interest rate risk.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 145 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 146 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS IFRS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 30.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued Year ended 31 December 2006 Less More than than No one 15 610 1115 1620 20 fixed Total year years years years years years term 2006 m m m m m m m m Financial and insurance assets: Cash flow interest rate risk Shares and other variable yield securities -- - - - - - - Units in unit trusts and shares in open-ended investment companies -- - - - - - - Debt securities and other fixed income securities 33 92 49 19 10 131 - 334 Participation in investment pools -- - - - - - - Derivative financial instruments - 2 3 1 32 77 - 115 Deposits with credit institutions 145 - - - - - - 145 Fair value interest rate risk Shares and other variable yield securities - - - - - - 5,279 5,279 Units in unit trusts and shares in open-ended investment companies - - - - - - 873 873 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 232 679 2,358 2,656 1,564 4,839 - 12,328 Participation in investment pools - - - 136 - - - 136 Derivative financial instruments 7 14 34 19 12 2 - 88 Deposits with credit institutions -- - - - - - - Reinsurance assets 12 9 12 23 35 7 1 85 Financial and insurance liabilities: Fair value interest rate risk Derivative financial instruments 5 3 10 3 - - - 21 Insurance contracts 452 1,869 3,077 1,009 397 181 5,489 12,474 Investment contracts 312 657 781 694 589 686 2,035 5,754 Note that while significant cash flows often occur at the maturity date, there are other cash flows which occur throughout the term of the contracts, including income from investments, premiums, annuity payments, death and sickness payments, expenses and commission.
146 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 147 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 30.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued Year ended 31 December 2005 Less More than than No one 15 610 1115 1620 20 fixed Total year years years years years years term 2005 m m m m m m m m Financial and insurance assets: Cash flow interest rate risk Shares and other variable yield securities - - - - - - - - Units in unit trusts and shares in open-ended investment companies - - - - - - - - Debt securities and other fixed income securities 55 68 33 49 15 197 - 417 Participation in investment pools - - - - - - - - Derivative financial instruments - 15 40 14 73 144 - 148 Deposits with credit institutions 144 - - - - - - 144 Fair value interest rate risk Shares and other variable yield securities - - - - - - 9,778 9,778 Units in unit trusts and shares in open-ended investment companies - - - - - - 262 262 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 404 951 3,337 2,192 2,084 4,682 - 13,650 Participation in investment pools - - - 141 - - - 141 Derivative financial instruments 6 17 45 28 13 4 - 101 Deposits with credit institutions - - - - - - - - Reinsurance assets 8 4 16 29 50 70 6 183 Financial and insurance liabilities: Fair value interest rate risk Insurance contracts 524 2,152 2,705 1,415 609 435 5,471 13,311 Investment contracts 269 675 824 715 634 833 2,510 6,460 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 147 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 148 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS IFRS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued i Mortality and morbidity risk 30.
Risk management objectives and policies for Life assurance mitigating risks continued Most insurance policies other than annuities and deferred annuity policies include life assurance.
When pricing policies, an assumption b Policy cash flow risk including insurance risk is made as to the likelihood of death and this assumption is Policy cash flow risk consists of the following four main areas: reviewed as part of the annual valuation of policies.
To the extent that actual mortality experience is worse than that anticipated in Insurance risks: pricing and subsequently in the insurance liability valuation a loss mortality risk risk of loss arising due to policyholder deaths will be made.
The risk is greater for those policies such as term experience being different from expectations: or for annuities, risk of assurance where the maturity or surrender benefit is small in annuitants living longer than expected called annuity longevity risk : relation to the death benefit.
Other policies which have a savings morbidity risk risk of loss arising due to policyholder health element, such as endowment assurance have significant liabilities experience being different from expectations: relating to the maturity benefit, particularly as the policy approaches maturity.
Contractual terms for unit-linked and unitised with-profits Other risks: products include provision for increases in mortality charges.
policyholder decision risk risk of loss arising from experience of actual policyholder behaviour eg lapses, option take-up being Critical illness different from expectations: The Group writes a number of critical illness policies that pay out in expense risk risk of loss due to expense experience being the event of a policyholders ill health.
As for life assurance, the different from expectations.
amount payable on ill health can be significantly higher than the amount payable if the policy is surrendered.
The Life & Pensions business actively pursues mortality risk and morbidity risk in those areas where it believes it has a competitive An increase in experienced mortality and morbidity will reduce IFRS advantage in managing these risks to generate shareholder value profit.
A 5% increase in assurance mortality and critical illness without compromising the interests of policyholders, and the need experience will reduce post-tax profit and equity by 19m 2005: to treat customers fairly.
Policyholder decision risk and expense risk 26m before allowing for reinsurance and 8m 2005: 6m net of are taken on when it is deemed financially beneficial for the reinsurance.
This takes into account the impact from increasing the organisation to do so, or where the taking of these risks is in support provision for future mortality as well as the impact from actual of the Groups strategic objectives.
A 5% reduction in assurance mortality and critical illness experience would increase post-tax profit and equity by 18m 2005: Underpinning the Groups management of policy cash flow risk is: 22m before reinsurance and 7m 2005: 4m net of reinsurance.
adherence to an approved underwriting policy that takes into account the level of risk that the Group is prepared to accept: Income protection controls around the development of products and their pricing: and Income protection policies pay a regular level of benefit if the regular analysis of actual mortality, morbidity and lapse experience policyholder is unable to work due to incapacity for more than a which feeds into the development of products and policies.
The two main risks involved are an increase in the frequency of claims the inception rate and an increase in the average Risks in excess of agreed underwriting limits may be reinsured.
The length of the claim a reduction in recovery rate.
Most income Groups objective is to purchase reinsurance in the most cost-effective protection policies are regular premium with the premium and cover manner from reinsurers whose creditworthiness is deemed appropriate.
Some group policies allow premiums to be reviewed but the premium rates are usually guaranteed for three years.
Substantially all insurance contracts, and 60% of the combined insurance and investment contract portfolio, are written in the UK and The impact of inception rates increasing by 5% and recovery rates so results are sensitive to changes in the UK insurance market and reducing by 5% would be a 21m 2005: 45m reduction in post-tax tax regime.
Otherwise the Group sells a diverse range of products to IFRS profit and equity.
A 5% reduction in inception rates and a 5% a diverse group of people.
increase in recovery rates would increase post-tax profit and equity by about 11m 2005: 33m.
The impact assumes that the reserving Note 27 describes the main insurance contracts written by the basis is adjusted to reflect the change in experience.
Group and the basis of setting assumptions in measuring insurance liabilities which will take into account the risks above.
The following Annuities sections describe how policy cash flow risks are managed and Life annuities are contracts that, in return for a lump sum, pay a regular provide an indication of the sensitivity of reported profit to the risk.
amount usually monthly or annually and sometimes increasing at a fixed or Each sensitivity has been calculated independently of the remaining index-linked rate, until the death of the policyholder.
As a result, if annuitants risks ie correlations between risks have been ignored.
live longer than expected on average, profits will reduce.
In many cases the annuity is guaranteed payable for a fixed term usually five years even in the F&C insurance contracts are all annuity contracts with guaranteed event of death.
Many policies are written on joint lives so that when the payment during the life time of the annuitant at a specified level or first life dies the benefit continues, sometimes at a reduced level.
These with a specified escalation factor.
They are 100 per cent reinsured to features tend to reduce the volatility of results to random fluctuations Friends Provident Pensions Limited.
in experience but not the impact of a general increase in longevity.
148 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 149 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued changes to charges.
Also FPLA closed fund with-profits 30.
Risk management objectives and policies for policyholders bear the full expense risk for the fund.
mitigating risks continued Contractual terms for unit-linked and unitised with-profits products Deferred annuities are contracts whereby there is a promise to pay a include provision for increases in charges.
Certain expenses such life annuity starting from a specified date in the future.
These as fees commissions are fixed at the time a contract is written.
policies are subject to a similar risk from the impact of longevity, the If the remaining renewal expenses were to increase by 10%, the only difference being that the risk of adverse impact is greater given impact on post-tax profits and equity would be approximately 15m that the annuity is payable further into the future.
these policies are with-profits and the impact would be offset by a reduction in the FFA, with relatively little resulting impact on c Credit risk shareholder profits.
Credit risk can be described as the risk of loss due to the default of A 5% reduction in annuitant mortality would reduce post-tax IFRS a company, individual or country, or a change in investors risk profit and equity by 31m 2005: 32m.
This takes into account the appetite.
It includes investment credit risk, derivative and impact from increasing the provision for future mortality as well as reinsurance counterparty risks, deposit and loan risks.
the impact from paying more annuity than expected.
A 5% increase in expected annuitant mortality would increase post-tax profit and The Life & Pensions business will take on investment credit risk and equity by 28m 2005: 29m.
These impacts assume that the loan risk when it is deemed financially beneficial to do so in support reserving basis changes to reflect experience.
of the Groups strategic objectives eg on making an investment decision between two corporate bonds of differing credit quality, the The impact of a mortality shock on term assurance business would default risk of the lower rated bond would be weighed up against normally be at least partially offset by a favourable impact on the the additional yield gained with a view to ensuring that the expected annuity book.
reward exceeded the potential cost of the default risk.
F&C actively pursues credit risk in relation to the impact on management fees of ii Policyholder decision risk credit events.
The Group is averse to most other types of credit risk, Persistency experience varies over time as well as from one type of in particular that related to the default of derivative counterparties, contract to another.
Factors that will cause lapse rates to vary over reinsurers and deposit takers.
time include changes in investment performance of the assets underlying the contract where appropriate, regulatory changes that To mitigate credit risk: make alternative products more attractive, customer perceptions of Investment mandates for many funds will have a prescribed the insurance industry in general and the Group in particular, and the minimum credit rating of bonds that may be held.
Investing in a general economic environment.
diverse portfolio reduces the impact from individual companies defaulting.
The immediate impact on IFRS profit of a change in lapse rates is Counterparty limits are set for investments, cash deposits, foreign relatively small.
An increase in lapse rates will normally result in a exchange trade exposure and stock lending.
small reduction in profit due mainly to eliminating the deferred All derivative transactions are covered by collateral and derivatives acquisition cost asset in respect of the insurance contracts that are only taken out with counterparties with a suitable credit rating.
However the impact is much smaller than the effect of other The Group regularly reviews the financial security of its reinsurers.
Lapses have a more significant effect on the Groups other basis of measurement being EEV profit.
In F&C, credit risk including derivative counterparty risk is managed by the application of a strict investment policy designed to limit The valuation of the Groups guarantees and options is described in exposure to companies with poor credit ratings and to avoid undue note 27.
As stated in that note, the cost of guaranteed annuity investment with any single counterparty.
Regular meetings are held options is dependent on decisions made by policyholders such as to consider credit developments and all credit exposures are policy discontinuance and tax-free cash take-up.
These assumptions reviewed at least annually.
Collateral is not usually obtained for credit are set by reference to recent experience.
risk exposures on derivative instruments, except where margin deposits are required from counterparties.
iii Expense risk Though under IFRS 4 expense risk is not a component of insurance The Group is subject to the risk of increases in credit spreads risk, it is an important financial risk in the context of insurance and reducing the value of corporate bonds.
Bases for valuing liabilities investment contracts.
will reflect bond yields, reduced for default risk.
To the extent that the increase in credit spreads reflects an increase in actual default The whole of the impact of changes in expense levels is borne by rates, this will result in a reduction in profits.
A 0.25% pa increase in shareholders with the following exceptions.
In 2009 the charges average credit spread which is reflected by an increase in actual made to the FPLP With-Profits Fund for managing policies will be defaults will reduce post-tax profit and equity by 60m 2005: 70m.
reviewed to reflect market rates at the time.
Pre-demutualisation with-profits policyholders will bear the impact of any resulting Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 149 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 150 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS IFRS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 30.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued Concentrations of credit risk might exist where the Group has significant exposure to an individual counterparty or to a group of counterparties with similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions.
The Group has most of its counterparty risk within its Life & Pensions business.
As noted above this is monitored by the counterparty limits contained within the Groups investment guidelines, overlaid with regulatory requirements.
F&C is exposed to a concentration of credit risk to the extent of timing differences between the recognition of income for services rendered and the timing of receipt of management fees from clients.
The specific concentration of risk from clients where trade debtors and accrued income for any one client or group of connected clients is 1m or more at 31 December is as follows: 2006 2005 Amounts due from: m m The Achmea group 4 6 Resolution Life plc - 3 RSA plc 1 1 OEICs management fees 3 3 8 13 Certain derivatives are subject to a legal right of set-off.
The amount disclosed in the balance sheet in respect of financial assets represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
An indication of the Groups exposure to credit risk is the quality of the investments and counterparties with which it transacts.
The Group is most exposed to credit risk on debt and other fixed income securities, derivative financial instruments, deposits with credit institutions, reinsurance arrangements and cash and cash equivalents.
Debt and other fixed income securities mainly comprise government bonds and corporate bonds.
Given the nature of the Groups investments in government bonds the credit risk associated with these is considered small and the Group therefore focuses on monitoring the quality of its corporate bonds.
The following table gives an indication of the level of creditworthiness of those categories of assets which are most exposed to credit risk using principally ratings prescribed by Standard & Poors and Moodys.
Assets held within unit-linked funds have been excluded from the table below as the credit risk on these assets is borne by the policyholders rather than the shareholders.
31 December 2006 AAA AA A BBB BB B Not rated Total m m m m m m m m Corporate bonds 2,641 1,676 2,424 652 7 7 210 7,617 Derivative financial instruments - 181 1 - - - - 182 Reinsurance assets - 85 - - - - - 85 31 December 2005 AAA AA A BBB BB B Not rated Total m m m m m m m m Corporate bonds 2,952 1,900 2,810 703 - - 276 8,641 Derivative financial instruments - 24 225 - - - - 249 Reinsurance assets - 26 157 - - - - 183 150 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 151 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 30.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued For over-the-counter derivative transactions undertaken by the Group, collateral is received from the counterparty if the contract is in-themoney ie is an asset of the Groups and over any agreed minimum threshold.
This collateral can be sold or repledged by the Group and is repayable if the contract terminates or the contracts fair value falls.
At 31 December 2006 the fair value of such collateral held was 181m 2005: 241m.
No collateral received from the counterparty has been sold or repledged.
In respect of deposits with credit institutions and cash and cash equivalents, Group policy is to hold cash and deposits in AAA money funds or financial institutions with a rating of above AA.
d Liquidity risk The Group faces two key types of liquidity risk: shareholder liquidity risk liquidity within funds managed for the benefit of shareholders, including shareholders interests in long-term funds and policyholder liquidity risk liquidity within funds managed for the benefit of policyholders.
Longer-term shareholder liquidity risk will be taken on when it is deemed financially beneficial for the organisation to do so, or where the taking of this liquidity risk is in support of strategic objectives.
Short-term shareholder liquidity risk is avoided due to the need to satisfy dividend expectations whilst having a limited timeframe to raise capital.
Policyholder liquidity risk is not accepted, over either a short or longer-term timeframe, in all but the most extreme scenarios.
The same is true for liquidity risk in F&Cs investors funds.
The overall objective of shareholder liquidity risk management is to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity over short up to one year and medium time horizons to meet the needs of the business.
This includes liquidity to cover, amongst other things, new business costs, planned strategic activities such as acquisitions, servicing debt and equity capital as well as working capital to fund day-to-day cash flow requirements.
For policyholder funds, liquidity risk arises from a number of potential areas, including: a short-term mismatch between assets and liabilities having to realise assets to meet liabilities when asset values are depressed an unexpectedly high level of lapses surrenders.
Liquidity risk is managed in the following way: Forecasts are prepared regularly to predict required liquidity levels over both the short and medium term.
Committed third-party funding facilities are held to enable cash to be raised in a relatively short time-span.
Credit risk of cash deposits is managed by applying counterparty limits and imposing restrictions over the credit ratings of third parties with whom cash is deposited.
Assets of a suitable maturity and marketability are held to meet policyholder liabilities as they fall due.
Limits are set on the level of lower grade or speculative investments that can be held.
The Group has issued fixed rate subordinated loan notes repayable in 2016, with the option of extending the term to 2026 at a floating rate.
This has provided the Group with long-term flexible funding at a fixed rate of interest.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 151
