qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors report to the members of Friends Provident plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider of Friends Provident plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 which whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Parent company balance sheets, the Consolidated cash flow apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Basis of audit opinion audited the information in the Remuneration Report of the Board that We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards is described as having been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit part of the Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited.
It also work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements members those matters we are required to state to them in an made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied and other than the company and the companys members, as a body for adequately disclosed.
our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor information and explanations which we considered necessary in The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law assurance that the financial statements and the part of the and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited are free from the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial statements material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity and the Remuneration Report of the Board in accordance with or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of directors statements and the part of the Remuneration Report of the Board responsibilities on page 56. to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of Opinion the Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited in accordance In our opinion: with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Groups affairs as at 31 December 2006 and of its profit for the give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and year then ended: the part of the Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited have the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the and whether, in addition, the Group financial statements have been IAS Regulation: properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Parent company financial statements give a true and fair We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in Practice, of the state of the Parent companys affairs as at the Directors report includes that specific information presented in 31 December 2006: the Annual Review that is cross-referred from the Business review the Parent company financial statements and the part of the section of the Directors report.
Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not and kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the information given in the Directors report is consistent with information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the financial statements.
information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC KPMG Audit Plc Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Chartered Accountants Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Registered Auditor required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal London control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the 19 March 2007 effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 69
