qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 75 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts for the year.
Although the estimates are based on managements 1.
Accounting policies best knowledge and judgement of information and financial data as at the date the financial statements are approved, the actual outcome 1.1 Basis of preparation may differ from these estimates.
Further information on the use of The consolidated financial statements of the Group are prepared in estimates, assumptions and judgements is set out in note 2. accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union and those parts of the 1.3 Summary of significant accounting policies Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The principal accounting policies set out below have been The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the consistently applied to all years presented in these consolidated historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of property financial statements.
and equipment, investment properties and financial instruments at fair value through the income statement.
1 Business combinations also comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005 as The cost of a business combination is measured as the fair value of amended in December 2006 in so far as these requirements do not the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or contradict IFRS requirements.
The detailed disclosure of new assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to business does not form part of these accounts.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are The Group has applied the principles contained in FRS 27 Life measured initially at their fair values at the business combination Assurance, as applied for the first time in the Groups 2005 financial date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess statements, as an improvement to its accounting policies as of the cost of the business combination over the fair value of the permitted by IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
This requires liabilities to Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as with-profits policyholders to be measured on a realistic basis in goodwill.
If the cost of the business combination is less than the fair accordance with the FSAs Realistic Balance Sheet RBS regulations.
value of the net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
The Group presents its balance sheet in order of liquidity.
Where applicable, for each asset and liability line item that combines a Subsidiaries amounts expected to be recovered or settled both within and Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power, beyond 12 months after the balance sheet date, disclosure of the directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies so amount due beyond 12 months is either made in the maturity tables as to obtain economic benefits, generally accompanying a in note 30 or in the respective line item note.
shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are also Financial assets and financial liabilities are not offset, unless there is taken into account.
a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets Open-ended investment companies and unit trusts in which the and settle the liability simultaneously.
Income and expenses are not Group has a percentage holding in excess of 50% are consolidated.
offset in the income statement unless required or permitted by an The units not owned by the Group are treated as a liability called net accounting standard or interpretation, as specifically disclosed in the asset value attributable to unit holders.
accounting policies of the Group.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, The parent company has continued to present individual financial liabilities, results and cash flows of the company and its subsidiaries.
statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the period are 226A of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985, adopting the included in the consolidated results from the date of acquisition or exemption of omitting the profit and loss account and related notes up to the date of disposal.
Intra-group balances and income and conferred by section 230 of that Act.
The parent company financial expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in statements, with its respective accounting policies, are presented on preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Profits or losses arising from changes in holdings in subsidiaries that The Group has decided not to early adopt IFRS 7 Financial do not impact the Groups control over that subsidiary are Instruments: Disclosures, or the Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of recognised directly in equity.
Financial Statements, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB in October 2005, and effective from 1 January b Associates and joint ventures 2007.
These standards will result in changes to disclosures relating to Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant financial instruments and capital when they are adopted in 2007. influence but not control over the financial and operating policies, generally arising from holding between 20% and 50% of the voting 1.2 Use of estimates, assumptions and judgements rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any estimates, assumptions and judgements that affect the reported impairment loss identified on acquisition.
amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date, as well as affecting the reported income and expenses Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 75 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 76 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS IFRS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued segments.
The Group therefore reports its primary segment 1.
Accounting policies continued information using business segments.
Joint ventures are those entities where the terms of the contractual Secondary segment information is reported using geographical agreement ensure that the parties involved jointly control the entity, segments.
A geographical segment provides products or services notwithstanding that the Groups share of the underlying assets and within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and liabilities may be more than 50%.
The Group recognises its interests returns that are different to those of other geographical segments.
in joint ventures using the equity method.
Further details of the segments selected by the Group are included Under the equity method, an investment is included as a single line in note 3. item in the consolidated balance sheet as the Groups share of the fair value of the investee undertakings net assets plus goodwill, 1.3.
4 Foreign currency translation which equates to the cost of the investment plus the Groups share of post-acquisition reserves.
The Groups share of post-tax profits or a Foreign currency transactions losses is presented as a single line item in the consolidated income The Groups presentation currency is sterling.
Transactions in foreign statement, adjusted for the effect of any fair value adjustments.
currencies are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
2 Product classification denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet a Insurance contracts date, and any exchange differences arising are taken to the income Contracts under which the Group accepts significant insurance risk statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical from another party the policyholder, by agreeing to compensate the cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event the insured event date of the transaction and are not subsequently restated.
Nonadversely affects the policyholder, are classified as insurance monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency contracts.
Under IFRS 4, insurance risk is risk other than financial risk.
are translated at the rate on the date the fair value was determined.
Financial risk is the risk of a possible future change in one or more of: When a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised directly in a specified interest rate, security price, commodity price, foreign equity, any exchange component of that gain or loss is recognised exchange rate, index of price or rates, a credit rating or credit index or directly in equity.
Conversely, when a gain or loss on a non-monetary other variable.
Insurance contracts may transfer some financial risk.
item is recognised in the income statement, any exchange component of that gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, it Foreign exchange adjustments recognised in equity are reported in the remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, even Groups foreign currency translation reserve within retained earnings if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this period.
As a and reported in the statement of recognised income and expense.
general guideline, the Group defines as significant insurance risk the possibility of having to pay benefits on the occurrence of an insured b Overseas subsidiaries event that is more than 5% greater than the benefits payable if the The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, including goodwill insured event did not occur.
and intangible assets attributable to the acquisition of the overseas subsidiary, and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are b Investment contracts translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance Policyholder contracts not considered insurance contracts under sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of overseas subsidiaries are IFRS 4 are classified as investment contracts.
Contracts classified as translated to sterling at average foreign exchange rates for the year.
investment contracts are either unit-linked or contracts with Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation to sterling Discretionary Participation Features DPF.
These are mainly unitised are classified as equity movements and recognised in the Groups with-profits contracts.
foreign currency translation reserve and reported in the statement of recognised income and expense.
These exchange differences are c Options and guarantees recognised in the income statement in the period in which the Options and guarantees are valued separately unless the option or overseas subsidiary is disposed of.
guarantee itself meets the definition of an insurance contract, or it is a policyholder option to surrender an insurance contract for a fixed amount.
5 Revenue recognition For options and guarantees separated from the host contract, the a Premiums Group measures them at fair value and includes the change in fair Premium income in respect of single premium business, new value in the income statement on the same basis as for its other generation group pensions business and pensions business not embedded derivatives.
subject to contractual regular premiums, is accounted for when the premiums are received.
3 Segment reporting Management reviews the Groups operations on the basis of its key For all other classes of business, premium income is accounted for business activities or business segments.
These are groups of in the year in which it falls due.
assets or operations that provide products or services that are different in terms of risks and returns to those of other business Reinsurance premiums are accounted for when due for payment.
76 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 77 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued annuity payments are recorded when due.
Accounting policies continued recorded are accrued to the policyholder and included within insurance and investment contracts liabilities.
b Fee and commission income and income from service activities Insurance and investment contract policyholders are charged for Claims handling costs include internal and external costs incurred in policy administration services, investment management services and connection with the negotiation and settlement of claims.
Investment management services comprise primarily costs include all direct expenses of the claims department and any fees and charges from unit-linked investment contracts issued by the general administrative costs directly attributable to the claims function.
Fees earned by the Asset Management business relate to the sale and management of retail investment Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the products and from managing investments in the institutional market.
These fees and charges are recognised as revenue in the accounting b Finance costs period in which the services are rendered.
Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Front-end fees are charged to the policyholder at the inception of the contract.
This is primarily used for single premium contracts.
The c Operating lease payments consideration received is deferred as a liability and recognised over Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the the expected term of the contract on a straight-line basis.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives paid are recognised in the income statement as an Regular fees charged to the policyholder periodically monthly, integral part of the total lease expense.
quarterly or annually, are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period in which the service is rendered.
d Investment properties related expenses Expenses with regards to investment properties are treated as In respect of Asset Management a number of contracts have administrative expenses and are recognised when incurred.
performance fees based on an agreed level of performance in a set time period.
Performance fees are recognised when the quantum of 1.3.
7 Impairment the fee can be estimated reliably, which is when the performance period ends, when this occurs on or before the reporting date, or Assets are reviewed at each reporting date to assess whether there where there is a period of less than six months remaining to the end are any circumstances that might indicate that they are impaired.
If of the performance period, and there is evidence at the reporting date such circumstances exist, impairment testing is performed and any which suggests that the current performance will be sustainable.
resulting impairment losses are charged to the income statement.
The carrying value is adjusted to the recoverable amount.
Goodwill is tested c Investment income annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in All income received from investments is recognised in the income circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
statement and includes dividends, interest, rental income, and gains and losses relating to investment properties, financial assets at fair Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of value through the income statement and derivative financial instruments.
the asset, or in respect of goodwill, the cash generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the Dividend income from listed and unlisted securities is recognised as assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
revenue when the right to receive payment is established.
For listed securities this is the date the security is listed as ex-dividend.
For Each cash generating unit to which goodwill is allocated represents unlisted securities this is the due date of payment.
the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and is not larger than any of the Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, Groups primary or secondary segments used for segment reporting.
taking into account the effective yield of the asset or an applicable floating rate.
Interest income includes the amortisation of any 1.3.
8 Intangible assets discount or premium.
a Goodwill Goodwill arising on business combinations is the future economic Rental income from investment properties under operating leases is benefit arising from assets that are not capable of being individually recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the identified and separately recognised.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease income.
b Investment management contracts Investment management contracts acquired separately are 1.3.
6 Expense recognition measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets a Claims and benefits paid acquired in a business combination is the fair value as at the date of Insurance claims reflect the cost of all claims incurred during the acquisition.
Following initial recognition intangible assets are carried year, including claims handling costs.
Death claims and surrenders at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated are recorded on the basis of notifications received.
The useful lives of investment management Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 77 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 78 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS IFRS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued value is the amount for which a property could be exchanged between 1.
Accounting policies continued knowledgeable and willing parties in an arms length transaction.
contracts are finite and are amortised as the revenue on those Properties occupied by the Group are held at fair value on the basis contracts is earned, which equates to a straight-line basis over the of open market value at the date of revaluation.
Revaluation estimated average contract term, depending on the nature of the surpluses are credited to the revaluation surplus in shareholders contract, with amortisation being charged to the income statement.
Decreases that offset previous increases of the same asset The amortisation period is reviewed at each financial year-end.
are charged against the revaluation surplus directly to equity: all The estimated useful lives have been assessed as follows: other decreases are charged to the income statement.
2006 2005 Equipment is recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation and Investment trusts 10 years 20 years impairment losses.
Insurance 10 years 10 years Institutional 6 years 10 years b Depreciation Retail 10 years 10 years Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of an asset net of the estimated residual value, using the straight-line method, over the The useful lives of Investment trust and Institutional management estimated useful life of each part of an item of property and contracts were reduced during the year, as set out in note 2 h. equipment, as follows: c Present value of acquired in-force business PVIF Motor vehicles 34 years On acquisition of a portfolio of insurance contracts or investment Computer hardware and related software 14 years contracts, either directly or through the acquisition of a subsidiary Fixtures, fittings and office equipment 310 years undertaking, the net present value of the Groups interest in the expected pre-tax cash flows of the in-force business is capitalised in Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date the balance sheet as an intangible asset.
This is amortised over the and adjusted if appropriate.
anticipated lives of the related contracts which typically varies between 5 and 50 years.
c Disposal and derecognition An item of property and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or d Other intangible assets when no further future economic benefits are expected from its use.
Distribution lists, brands and licences acquired are capitalised at Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in cost, being the fair value of the consideration paid.
Software is the income statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
Any capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and to bring revaluation reserve relating to the particular asset being disposed of into use.
Direct costs of internally generated software are capitalised or no longer in use is transferred to retained earnings.
10 Investment properties Other intangible assets have finite useful lives and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Amortisation is Investment properties comprise land and or buildings that are not calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost over occupied by the Group and are held either to earn rental income or the estimated useful lives of the intangible asset as follows: for capital appreciation, or for both.
Distribution lists 1015 years Investment property is initially included in the balance sheet at cost Brands 10 years and subsequently measured at its fair value, which is supported by Licences 35 years market evidence, based on annual valuations by independent valuers Software 3 years who hold a recognised and relevant professional qualification and have recent experience in the location and category of investment property Subsequent expenditure on other intangible assets is capitalised only being valued.
Movements in the fair value of investment properties when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific are taken to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
11 Fair values of financial instruments 1.3.
9 Property and equipment Fair values of listed financial instruments are based on market bid a Owned assets price for assets and offer price for liabilities at the close of business on Land and buildings are initially recognised at cost and subsequently the balance sheet date.
For unlisted financial instruments broker or measured at fair value.
Revaluations are performed annually by dealer price quotations are obtained.
If prices are not readily available, independent valuers, who hold a recognised and relevant professional the fair value is based on valuation techniques.
Certain financial qualification and have recent experience in the location and category of instruments, including financial derivative instruments, are valued properties being valued.
Valuations are performed with sufficient regularity using pricing models that consider, among other factors, contractual such that the carrying amount does not differ materially from that which and market prices, correlation, time value of money, credit risk, yield would be determined using fair values at the balance sheet date.
The fair curve volatility factors and or prepayment rates of the underlying positions.
The use of different pricing models and assumptions could produce materially different estimates of fair values.
78 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 79 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued The amortised cost of loans is the present value of estimated future 1.
Accounting policies continued cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
If the value of financial instruments cannot be reliably measured, 1.3.
13 Deferred acquisition costs they are measured at cost.
For both insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF, 1.3.
12 Financial assets acquisition costs comprise all direct and indirect costs arising from writing the contracts, which are incurred during a financial period.
The Group classifies its investments as either financial assets at fair Costs are deferred to the extent that they are recoverable out of value through the income statement or loans.
The rate of amortisation of deferred acquisition costs depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired on such contracts is proportional to the future margins emerging in or originated.
respect of the related policies, over the lifetime of those policies.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the date For investment contracts without DPF, and for Asset Management the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
service contracts, deferred acquisition costs comprise all incremental costs that are directly related to the writing of the contract, which are A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual right to receive incurred during a financial period and are deferred to the extent that cash flows expires or when the asset, together with substantially all they are recoverable out of future margins.
Such deferred acquisition the risks and rewards of ownership, has been transferred.
costs are amortised uniformly over the lifetime of the policy.
a Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 1.3.
14 Reinsurance These investments are financial assets designated on initial recognition at fair value through the income statement.
A financial Amounts due to and from reinsurers are accounted for in a manner instrument is designated upon initial recognition at fair value through consistent with the insured policies and in accordance with the the income statement when it satisfies one of the following criteria: relevant reinsurance contract.
Premiums ceded and claims It eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch reimbursed are individually presented on a gross basis.
caused by financial assets and financial liabilities being measured on a different basis.
Contracts that do not give rise to a significant transfer of insurance The financial instrument or group of financial instruments is risk to the reinsurer are considered financial reinsurance and are managed individually or together on a fair value basis.
accounted for and disclosed in a manner consistent with financial The financial instrument contains or may contain an embedded instruments.
15 Taxation The fair value on initial recognition is the consideration given, excluding a Current tax any transaction costs directly attributable to their acquisition.
The tax expense disclosed on the face of the income statement Subsequent to initial recognition, all such financial assets are measured represents the sum of current year corporation tax, the movement in at fair value.
Movements in fair value are taken to the income deferred tax and adjustments to prior periods tax.
statement in the period in which they arise.
These financial assets include derivative financial instruments held for trading purposes.
Taxation is based on profits and income for the period as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together with Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract adjustments to provisions for prior periods, except where it relates including embedded derivatives in insurance contracts, recognised to an item which is recognised in equity.
Tax payable is calculated as a stand alone derivative financial instrument and measured at fair using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by value through the income statement, when the following conditions the balance sheet date.
are met: the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded The tax charge is analysed between tax in respect of income and derivatives are not closely related to the economic characteristics investment return on the policyholders interest in the with-profits and risk of the host contract: and linked fund assets, representing policyholders tax, with the a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded balance being tax on equity holders investment return and profits, derivative would meet the definition of a derivative: and representing shareholders tax.
the hybrid instrument is not measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
b Deferred tax Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on b Loans differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in Loans are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the are not quoted in an active market.
Loans are measured on initial computation of taxable profit.
This is accounted for using the recognition at the fair value of the consideration given plus balance sheet liability method and the amount of deferred tax incremental costs that are incurred on the acquisition of the provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or investment.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 79 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 80 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS IFRS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued obligations for future bonuses not yet declared excluding the 1.
Accounting policies continued shareholders share of future bonuses and includes the cost of options and guarantees measured on a market consistent basis.
settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities.
The The RBS basis of valuation does not recognise deferred acquisition tax rates used are the rates that have been enacted or substantively costs, but allows for future profits of non-profit and unit-linked enacted by the balance sheet date.
business written in the With-Profits Fund to be recognised.
Deferred taxation is recognised in the income statement for the The calculation of the liabilities to policyholders in respect of period, except to the extent that it is attributable to a gain or loss conventional with-profits contracts in Friends Provident Life that is recognised directly in equity.
In this case the gain or loss is Assurance Limited FPLA, is on a net premium basis and in shown net of the attributable deferred tax.
accordance with the MSS basis.
These liabilities include an implicit provision for future regular bonuses, but not final bonuses, by Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable means of a reduction in the valuation interest rate and an temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the assessment of options and guarantees on a deterministic basis.
extent that it is probable that taxable future profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The calculation of liabilities to policyholders for non-profit contracts is on a gross premium basis and in accordance with the MSS basis.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each These liabilities include explicit allowance for future expenses.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient future taxable profits will be available to The provision for insurance contract liabilities can never be definitive allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
as to the overall level of liabilities or their timing and is subject to regular reassessment.
16 Insurance and other receivables Insurance and other receivables are recognised when due and The Group carries out an annual liability adequacy test on its measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the amount insurance contract liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs receivable plus incremental costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, and other related intangible assets to ensure that the carrying amount receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective of its liabilities is sufficient in the light of estimated future cash flows.
Where a shortfall is identified, an additional provision is made.
The carrying value of receivables is the present value of estimated The Group applies shadow accounting in relation to certain insurance future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
contract liabilities, which are supported by owner occupied properties, on which unrealised gains and losses are recognised 1.3.
17 Cash and cash equivalents within equity.
Adjustments are made to the insurance contract Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call provisions to reflect the movements that would have arisen if the with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original unrealised gains and losses had been recognised in the income maturities of three months or less, and bank overdraft facilities, where statement.
The corresponding change in the value of these balances there is a legal right of offset against cash and cash equivalents.
is also recognised in equity.
19 Investment contracts Insurance contracts are measured using accounting policies Investment contracts are either unit-linked or contracts with DPF consistent with those previously adopted under the Modified mainly unitised with-profits contracts.
Statutory Solvency MSS basis, as amended following the adoption of the principles contained in FRS 27 Life Assurance.
A unit-linked investment contract is recognised at fair value through the income statement.
The fair value is calculated as the number of Insurance contract liabilities are determined separately for each life units allocated to policyholders in each of the unit-linked funds operation following an annual investigation of the long-term funds at multiplied by the unit price of those funds at the balance sheet date.
For UK operations the liabilities are calculated in The fund assets and liabilities used to determine the unit prices at accordance with the relevant Financial Services Authority FSA rules the balance sheet date are valued on a basis that is consistent with contained in the Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers.
For overseas their measurement basis in the consolidated Group balance sheet, operations, insurance contract liabilities are calculated on recognised adjusted to take account of the effect on the liabilities of discounting actuarial principles, based on local regulatory requirements.
The for the time value of future tax on unrealised gains on assets held in valuations are subject to adjustments to reflect relevant accounting the fund.
Provision is made for renewal commissions at the requirements as set out below.
inception of an investment contract as intermediaries are not required to perform any service once the policy is incepted.
For the conventional with-profits business in Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited FPLP, the liabilities to policyholders are Unitised with-profits investment contracts are measured using determined in accordance with the Realistic Balance Sheet RBS Realistic Balance Sheet principles as amended by FRS 27. regulations and in accordance with the principles contained in FRS 27.
These liabilities include both declared and constructive 80 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 81 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued recorded on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion 1.
Accounting policies continued or maturity of the bonds.
A contract with DPF is a contractual right held by a policyholder to The interest expense recognised in the income statement under receive, as a supplement to guaranteed minimum payments, finance costs, is calculated using the effective interest rate additional payments: method.
Interest accrued on variable rate interest bearing loans that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual and borrowings is recognised under insurance payables, other payments, and payables and deferred income and not in the carrying value of whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of the interest bearing loans and borrowings.
issuer and that are contractually based on: the performance of a specified pool of contracts, or a specified 1.3.
22 Provisions type of contract, or realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or of assets held by the issuer, or constructive obligation, as a result of a past event, which is likely to the profit or loss of the company that issues the contracts.
result in an outflow of resources and where a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
If the effect is material, the Investment contracts with DPF held within the FPLP and FPLA withprovision is determined by discounting the expected future cash profits funds are measured on a basis that is consistent with a flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects a current market assessment for measurement basis for insurance contracts held within those funds.
the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Balances representing eligible surplus that has not yet been allocated to shareholders, or policyholders with DPF contracts, are The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when the retained as a policyholders liability.
expected benefits to be derived from the contracts are less than the related unavoidable costs.
20 Fund for future appropriations FFA 1.3.
23 Insurance payables, other payables and The FFA comprises all funds available for allocation, either to deferred income policyholders or to shareholders, the allocation of which has not Insurance and other payables are recognised when due and been determined at the balance sheet date.
measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration paid.
Subsequent to initial recognition, payables are measured at Within FPLP, the insurance and investment contracts liabilities allow amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
for discretionary benefit allocations to the extent that they are allowed within current bonus practices.
The FFA represents working Fees charged for services to be provided in future periods are deferred capital and the value of future transfers to shareholders from the and recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis as the With-Profits Fund in respect of discretionary bonuses for services are provided over the expected term of the contract.
24 Employee benefits Within FPLA, the FFA represents the value of future final bonus payments to policyholders.
a Pension obligations i Defined benefit schemes 1.3.
21 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Pension schemes are in operation for employees of certain Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which is generally subsidiary undertakings.
The principal schemes, to which the the cash consideration received, net of transaction costs incurred, majority of employees belong, are of the funded defined benefit and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference type with assets managed by F&C Asset Management plc F&C, a between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the subsidiary undertaking.
The schemes provide benefits based on final redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the pensionable salary.
The assets of the schemes are held in separate period of the borrowings, using the effective interest rate method.
Convertible bonds that can be converted to share capital at the option The pension liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present of the holder, where the number of shares issued does not vary with obligation of the employer, which is the estimated present value of changes in their fair value, are accounted for as compound financial future benefits that employees have earned in return for their instruments.
Compound financial instruments are split and the equity services in the current and prior years, less the value of the plan and liability components recorded separately.
The equity component assets in the schemes.
The discount rate applied to the employees of the convertible bonds is calculated on issue as the excess of the benefits is the appropriate AA rated corporate bond yield at the issue proceeds over the present value of the future interest and balance sheet date.
A qualified actuary performs the calculation principal payments, discounted at the market rate of interest annually using the projected unit credit method.
applicable to similar liabilities that do not have a conversion option.
The equity component is recognised and included in shareholders The pension costs for the schemes are charged to the income equity, net of tax effects.
The fair value of the liability component is statement and consist of current service cost, past service cost, interest cost on scheme liabilities, the effect of any settlements and Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 81
