qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 159 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 39.
Step-up Tier one Insurance Capital Securities continued 2003 STICS: On 21 November 2003, the Company issued 300m of STICS, which bear interest from November 2003 to November 2019 at a rate of 6.875%.
The STICS have no maturity date but will be redeemable at the option of the Company on 21 November 2019, thereafter on the coupon payment date falling on or nearest successive fifth anniversaries of this date.
The STICS are perpetual securities and are not redeemable at the option of the holders at any time.
The STICS are irrevocably guaranteed on a subordinated basis by FPLP.
The guarantee is intended to provide holders with rights against FPLP in respect of the guaranteed payments which are as near as possible equivalent to those which they would have had if the STICS had been directly issued preference shares of FPLP.
For each coupon period after 20 November 2019, the STICS will bear interest that is reset every five years.
The STICS are carried at 299m, being 300m principal less capitalised issue costs of 3m, plus interest due of 2m not yet paid to STICS holders.
Interest is payable in equal instalments in arrears on 21 May and 21 November of each year.
2005 STICS: On 27 June 2005, the Company issued 500m of STICS, which bear interest from 30 June 2005 to 30 June 2015 at a rate of 6.292%.
The STICS have no maturity date but will be redeemable in whole or part at the option of the Company on 1 July 2015, thereafter on every fifth anniversary of this date.
The STICS are guaranteed on a limited and subordinated basis by FPLP.
For each coupon period after 1 July 2015, the STICS will bear interest that is reset every five years.
The STICS are carried at 511m, being 500m principal less capitalised issue costs of 5m, plus interest due of 16m not yet paid to STICS holders.
Interest is payable in arrears on 30 June of each year.
Contingent liabilities and commitments a Past sales The Group has made provision for the estimated cost of settling complaints in respect of past sales.
Although the provisions are regularly reviewed, the final outcome could be different from the provisions established as these costs cannot be calculated with certainty and are influenced by external factors beyond the control of management.
Such uncertainties include future regulatory actions, media attention and investment performance.
The majority of the uncertainty relates to endowment mortgages although a number of other products are being reviewed as an ongoing process.
It is expected that the majority of endowment cases requiring compensation will be settled in the next two years.
b VAT on investment trust management fees In a current European Court case, a UK investment trust is seeking to establish that management services to UK investment trusts should be a VAT exempt supply, rather than a taxable supply in accordance with current UK VAT law.
If this case were successful, a number of group companies, in common with other relevant fund managers in the UK, would face claims from those investment trusts to which they have supplied services for repayment of the VAT they have charged to them.
The Association of Investment Companies AIC, a party to the above litigation, has indicated that it believes claims dating back as far as 1990 may be lodged with fund managers by investment trusts.
Companies in the F&C group can submit repayment claims to HM Revenue & Customs, but only dating back as far as 2001, being the maximum time period permitted.
F&C has begun to receive protective claims from a number of its investment trust clients and has lodged protective claims with HM Revenue & Customs.
The Advocate General issued an opinion on the case, on 1 March 2007, which is in favour of investment trusts.
However, until the decision of the European Court of Justice and the subsequent UK VAT tribunal decision are known, the directors of F&C are not able to judge the likelihood that the investment trusts and the AIC will be successful, nor are they able to quantify the claims that may be received or the extent to which such claims could be mitigated and therefore, are not able to quantify the potential liability.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 159 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 160 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS IFRS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 40.
Contingent liabilities and commitments continued c F&C acquisition In December 2000, when Eureko BV acquired F&C Group Holdings Limited, approximately 73% of the issued ordinary shares of F&C Group Management Limited, a subsidiary company, were held in the form of two bearer share warrants which could not be located prior to the completion of the sale.
Eureko BV was indemnified by F&C Group Holdings Limited against any losses suffered as a result of the loss of the old share warrants or the issue of replacement share warrants.
Since a bearer share warrant issued by a company entitles the bearer to the shares specified in the share warrant, there is a risk that the third-party holding the old share warrants may claim that it is entitled to the specified shares in F&C Group Management Limited.
If a third party were successful in establishing a claim in relation to the old share warrants, F&C Group Holdings Limited could be liable to indemnify F&C Group Management Limited under the original indemnity arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on F&Cs business, results of operations and or financial condition.
Although there is a possibility that a third party may seek to establish that it is entitled to the shares specified in the old share warrants, the directors of F&C have been informed that Eureko BV has been advised that the prospect of a third party succeeding in such a claim is remote.
Under the terms of the 2004 merger between ISIS and F&C, Eureko Holdings has given a specific indemnity guaranteed by Eureko BV to F&C in respect of losses arising in relation to the lost share warrants to bearer in F&C Group Management Limited including in respect of the indemnity granted by F&C Group Holdings Limited to F&C Group Management Limited, which is capped at approximately 432m.
d Operating leases where the Group is lessee The Group leases a number of properties under operating leases.
These leases typically run for a period of 50 years, with an option of renewal at the end of the lease.
Lease terms include annual escalation clauses to reflect current market conditions.
The future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2006 2005 Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total m m m m m m Within one year 13 4 17 347 Between one and five years 49 7 56 14 2 16 In more than five years 75 - 75 148 - 148 Total operating lease payables 137 11 148 165 6 171 e Sub-lease receivables Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at the year-end are as follows: Premises 2006 2005 m m After one year but not more than five years 5 5 More than five years 1 2 Total sub-lease receivables 6 7 160 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006
