qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 165 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the European Embedded Value basis As described in the statement of directors responsibilities on page supplementary information 56, the directors responsibilities include preparing the supplementary information on the EEV basis in accordance with the The directors of Friends Provident plc have chosen to prepare EEV Principles.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditor, in supplementary information in accordance with the European relation to the supplementary information are established in the Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the CFO Forum United Kingdom by the Auditing Practices Board, by our professions the EEV Principles, as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on ethical guidance and the terms of our engagement.
European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005.
When compliance with the EEV Principles is stated, those principles Under the terms of engagement we are required to report to the require the directors to prepare supplementary information in Company our opinion as to whether the supplementary information accordance with the Embedded Value Methodology EVM contained has been properly prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles in the EEV Principles and to disclose and explain any non-compliance using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 169 to with the EEV Guidance included in the EEV Principles.
We also report if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for this audit.
In preparing the EEV supplementary information, the directors have: prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the Basis of audit opinion EEV Principles: We conducted our audit having regard to International Standards on identified and described the business covered by the EVM: Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An applied the EVM consistently to the covered business: audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to past, the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information.
current and expected future experience and to any relevant external data, and then applied them consistently: It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and made estimates that are reasonable and consistent: judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the described the basis on which business that is not covered supplementary information, and of whether the accounting policies business has been included in the supplementary information, applied in the preparation of the supplementary information are including any material departures from the accounting framework appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and applicable to the Group financial statements.
Independent Auditors report to Friends Provident We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the plc on the European Embedded Value basis information and explanations which we considered necessary in supplementary information order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free from material Independent Auditors report misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information the In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of supplementary information of Friends Provident plc on pages the presentation of the supplementary information.
166 to 184 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006.
The supplementary information has been prepared in accordance with Opinion the European Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by In our opinion, the EEV basis supplementary information for the year the CFO Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on ended 31 December 2006 has been properly prepared in accordance European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 with the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set together the EEV Principles using the methodology and out on pages 169 to 171. assumptions set out on pages 169 to 171.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the Group financial statements which are on pages 70 to 164.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so KPMG Audit Plc that we might state to the Company those matters we have been Chartered Accountants engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the London fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 19 March 2007 responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 165
