qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 169 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the EEV results It is currently expected that the final consideration in respect of the 1.
Methodology Lombard acquisition will be settled by way of shares and cash.
Provision has been made in 2006 for the estimated cash element of 1.1 Basis of preparation the final earn-out payment.
The EEV results presented in this document have been prepared in accordance with the European Insurers Chief Financial Officers The shareholders net worth includes the corporate debt of the Group.
Forums EEV Principles issued in May 2004 and the Additional This debt is valued at market value, consistent with the EEV guidance.
They provide supplementary information for the year ended 31 December 2006.
EEV and other balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies have been translated to sterling using the appropriate The EEV basis of reporting is designed to recognise profit as it is closing exchange rate.
The new business contribution and other earned over the term of the policy.
The total profit recognised over income statement items have been translated using an average the lifetime of the policy is the same as that recognised under the exchange rate for the relevant period.
IFRS basis of reporting, but the timing of recognition is different.
1.2 Covered business The reported embedded value provides an estimate of the value of The covered business incorporates the Life & Pensions business shareholders interest in the covered business, excluding any value defined as long-term business by UK and overseas regulators.
that may be generated from future new business.
This value comprises the sum of the shareholders net worth, the provision for The Asset Management business is not included in the definition of future corporate costs and the value of existing business.
shareholders net worth is the net assets attributable to shareholders, and is represented by the sum of required capital and free surplus.
1.3 Allowance for risk The value of existing business is the present value of the projected stream of future distributable profits available to shareholders from The allowance for risk in the shareholder cash flows is a key feature the existing business at the valuation date, on a best estimate basis of the EEV Principles.
The EEV guidance sets out three main areas allowing for risk, adjusted for the cost of holding required capital.
available to allow for risk in an embedded value: the risk discount rate: The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the the allowance for the cost of financial options and guarantees: Groups IFRS results.
These contain information regarding the Groups the cost of holding both prudential reserves and any additional financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS issued by the required capital.
International Accounting Standards Board and adopted for use in the EU.
The market-consistent approach has been used to allow for risk in all The results for covered business as reported under EEV principles three areas.
are combined with the results for the remainder of the business reported in accordance with IFRS, except where EEV principles 1.4 Deriving risk discount rates dictate otherwise.
In particular the EEV principles have been applied A market-consistent embedded value has been calculated for each to reflect Step-up Tier one Insurance Capital Securities STICS as product line by valuing the cash flows in line with the prices of debt rather than equity.
similar cash flows traded on the open market.
In addition, a pro forma embedded value is reported showing In principle, each cash flow is valued using the discount rate ordinary shareholders funds on an EEV basis adjusted to include the consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital F&C listed subsidiary at market value.
For example, an equity cash flow is valued using an equity risk discount rate, and a bond cash flow is valued using a bond risk Shareholders net assets on an EEV basis for the Group consist of discount rate.
If a higher return is assumed for equities, the equity the following: cash flow is discounted at this higher rate.
Life & Pensions net assets: the Groups share of its investment in the Asset Management In practice, for liabilities where the payouts are either independent or business including the net pension liability on an IFRS basis: move linearly with market movements, a method known as the corporate net assets: certainty equivalent approach has been applied whereby all the net pension liability of FPPS on an IAS 19 basis but, in 2005, assumed assets earn the risk-free rate and all cash flows are including holdings in non-transferable securities issued by the discounted using the risk-free rate.
This gives the same result as Group both net of deferred tax : applying the method in the previous paragraph.
the provision for future corporate costs: the present value of future profits attributable to shareholders from existing policies of the Life & Pensions business.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 169 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 170 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS IFRS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST ST AA TEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the EEV results continued Significant amounts of new with-profits business are no longer 1.
Methodology continued written and the guarantee levels offered are lower, hence there is no material impact of the burnthrough cost in the contribution to profits A market-consistent cost of financial options and guarantees and a of new business.
market-consistent cost of holding required capital have also been calculated.
The cost of financial options and guarantees includes 1.6 Required capital and the cost of capital additional allowance for non-market risk within the With-Profits Fund.
An additional provision has been made for operational risks.
Required capital is set at the greater of regulatory capital and These are described in more detail below.
Regulatory minimum capital includes prudent reserves as well as solvency margin.
Economic capital is determined For presentational purposes, a set of risk discount rates has been from internal models, based on the Companys risk appetite.
derived for each product line, and for in-force and new business, by calculating the risk discount rate under a traditional embedded value At a product level economic capital requirements are higher than approach that gives the same value as that from the marketregulatory capital requirements for with-profits and annuity business, consistent embedded value determined above.
These derived risk and lower than regulatory capital requirements on unit-linked and discount rates are a function of the assumptions used eg equity risk protection business.
In aggregate, the economic capital premium, corporate bond spreads.
However, as the marketrequirements are higher than regulatory requirements by consistent approach is used, these assumptions do not impact the approximately 200m 2005: 100m.
level of embedded value: a higher equity risk premium results in an exactly compensating higher risk discount rate.
Capital requirements under EEV amounted to 652m 2005: 551m.
For new business, regulatory capital requirements are higher than 1.5 Financial options and guarantees economic capital requirements, given the high proportion of unit-linked The material financial options and guarantees are those in the and protection new business, and the contribution to profits from new Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited FPLP With-Profits business is therefore based on regulatory capital requirements.
Fund, in the form of the benefits guaranteed to policyholders and the guaranteed annuity rates associated with certain policies.
The EEV includes a deduction for the cost of holding the required capital.
Frictional costs, being the tangible costs of holding capital, The risk to shareholders is that the assets of the With-Profits Fund have been allowed for on a market-consistent basis.
These consist are insufficient to meet these guarantees.
While shareholders are of the total taxation and investment expenses incurred on locked-in entitled to only a small share of profits in the With-Profits Fund via shareholder capital and reflect the cost to an investor of holding an one ninth of the cost of bonus, they can potentially be exposed to asset through investment in a life company, rather than investing in the full cost if fund assets are insufficient to meet policyholder the asset directly.
The time value cost of this asymmetry, known as the burnthrough cost, is modelled stochastically, as it will only occur in No adjustment has been made for any agency cost, this some adverse scenarios.
The burnthrough time value cost is representing the potential markdown to value that investors will calculated as the difference between the average value of apply because they do not have direct control over their capital.
Any shareholder cash flows under a number of market-consistent adjustment would be subjective and different investors will have scenarios, and the intrinsic shareholder value using risk-free their own views of what adjustment, if any, should be made.
assumptions included within the deterministic model.
1.7 Non-market risk The burnthrough cost has been assessed using a stochastic model An investor can diversify away the uncertainty around the return on derived from the current Realistic Balance Sheet RBS model.
This non-market risks, such as mortality and expenses.
Hence in a model has been calibrated to market conditions at the valuation shareholder valuation the allowance for non-market risk is made date.
Allowance has been made under the different scenarios for through the appropriate choice of best estimate experience management actions, such as altered investment strategy, assumptions and the impact of non-market risks on the level, and consistent with the RBS model.
The burnthrough cost would be hence the cost, of capital.
markedly higher without the hedging activities undertaken.
In choosing best estimate assumptions the allowance for non-market The burnthrough cost at 31 December 2006 of 50m 2005: 75m, risk has been reviewed.
However, best estimate assumptions may is split between 30m 2005: 40m market risk and 20m 2005: fail to represent the full impact on shareholder value where the 35m non-market risk.
The non-market risks include lapses, impact of fluctuations in experience is asymmetric: that is where annuitant longevity, and operational risk within the With-Profits Fund.
adverse experience has a higher impact on shareholder value than The allowance for non-market risks is made by consideration of the favourable experience.
The areas identified as having such impact of extreme scenarios from our economic capital model.
asymmetries are the burnthrough cost and operational risk.
170 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 171 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the EEV results continued Productivity gains have been assumed within the EEV in respect of 1.
Methodology continued international business in anticipation of future business growth.
The Lombard EEV has been reduced by 13m 2005: 8m for a The impact of variations in non-market risks have been taken into projected expense overrun for the period 20072012. account in the burnthrough cost calculation.
This allows for asymmetries arising from the profit sharing mechanism.
1.9 New business In addition, a provision of 85m 2005: 87m has been set up for New business within the covered business includes: operational risks in the shareholders funds.
This provision has been premiums from the sale of new contracts: calculated by comparing the mean impact of variations in operational payments on recurring single premium contracts, including risk, as modelled in the economic capital calculations, with the Department for Work and Pensions rebate premiums, except existing allowance for operational risk in specific accounting existing stakeholder-style pensions business where, if a regular provisions and embedded value projection assumptions.
pattern in the receipt of premiums for individuals has been established, the regular payment is treated as a renewal of an This provision of 85m is equivalent to a 0.4% 2005: 0.4% increase existing contract and not new business: in the risk discount rate for UK Life & Pensions business and 0.8% non-contractual increments on existing policies: and 2005: 0.8% for International Life & Pensions business, recognising new entrants in the group pensions business.
the higher operational risks in international business.
This impacts both the in-force embedded value and the contribution from new business.
1.8 Expenses The EEV guidance requires companies to actively review expense assumptions, and include an allowance for holding company corporate costs and service company costs.
a Corporate costs Corporate costs relate to those costs incurred at the corporate level that are not directly attributable to the Life & Pensions or the Asset Management businesses.
Under EEV methodology, corporate costs are classified as either ongoing costs or development and one-off costs.
For 2006, 6m 2005: 6m of corporate costs were regular ongoing corporate costs and 7m 2005: 6m were development or one-off costs.
The ongoing costs have been capitalised under EEV.
The impact is a provision of 47m 2005: 47m.
b Service costs Service company costs are included in the EEV expense assumption calculations.
Included within these are the fees charged by F&C for investment management services to the covered Life & Pensions business.
F&C service fee profits in respect of covered Life & Pensions business are not capitalised under the EEV methodology, as F&C is a separate business segment within the Group and the arrangement between F&C and the Life & Pensions business is on an arms length basis.
Instead, these profits, approximately 11m 2005: 15m are brought into the consolidated income statement on an IFRS basis, and F&C is brought into the pro forma embedded value at market value.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 171
