qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 82 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS IFRS IFRS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated accounts continued The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected in the 1.
Accounting policies continued computation of diluted earnings per share.
curtailments, and the expected return on pension assets.
Past For cash-settled schemes, the fair value of the share based payment service costs are recognised in the income statement on a straightis measured at the grant date and expensed over the vesting period line basis over the period in which the increase in benefits vest.
in the income statement with a corresponding credit to liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses are taken to the statement of recognised The estimated fair value of cash-settled awards is remeasured at income and expense for the period.
each reporting date until the payments are ultimately settled.
The actuarial gains and losses, which arise from any new valuation 1.3.
25 Share capital and dividends and from updating the latest actuarial valuation to reflect conditions at the balance sheet date, are taken to the statement of recognised Where either the Company or F&C has a holding in its own equity which income and expense for the period.
The adjustment is shown net of has been classified as treasury shares, the consideration paid is deducted deferred taxation.
from share capital and reserves.
Where such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is ii Defined contribution schemes included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders, net Contributions made to these schemes are charged to the income of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of related tax effects.
Dividends are recognised as an appropriation on the date declared by iii Multi-employer defined benefit schemes the Groups directors or, if subject to approval, by the shareholders.
The Group participates in several multi-employer defined benefit schemes in Europe.
These schemes are defined benefit schemes but the Group is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets 2.
Use of estimates, assumptions and judgements and liabilities as they are not separately identifiable.
The Group accounts for the contributions to the schemes in the same manner The Group makes estimates, assumptions and judgements that as defined contribution schemes.
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
Estimates, assumptions and judgements are continually evaluated and based on iv Other long-term employee benefits historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future Other long-term employee benefits are recognised at the discounted events that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The obligation is calculated using the unit credit method.
The a Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and investment discounted rate of the employees benefits is the yield at balance contracts with DPF sheet date.
As stated in the accounting policies, management has determined that a contract is an insurance contract if there is a significant v Termination benefits insurance risk.
Policyholder contracts not considered insurance Termination benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense contracts are classified as investment contracts.
Investment when the Group terminates the employment of an employee before contracts with DPF are mainly unitised with-profit policies which are the normal retirement date.
valued on the same basis as insurance contracts.
b Share based payment schemes The estimation of the ultimate liabilities arising is a critical accounting The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings offer share based estimate.
There are several sources of uncertainty that need to be payment schemes to employees of the Group, depending on considered in the estimation of the liabilities that the Group will eligibility.
The fair value of equity-settled share based payments is ultimately pay for claims.
measured at the grant date and expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period in the income statement.
A corresponding A number of assumptions are used to determine the Groups amount is credited to equity.
liabilities, which contain guarantees and options.
The most significant assumptions are: At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the mortality, morbidity and persistency assumptions: number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It for with-profits policies within FPLP, the stochastic model used to recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in value liabilities is sensitive to risk-free rates, assumed asset the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity volatilities and the assumed correlation between asset volatilities.
over the remaining vesting period.
The fair value is measured using Risk-free rates are set in accordance with current market rates: scenario based modelling techniques that take into account the for other policies, the valuation interest rate is the most significant terms and conditions upon which these options were granted.
The economic assumption: amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual for guaranteed annuity options one of the principal guarantees number of share options that vest, except where forfeiture is only written by the Group the cost depends on assumptions such as due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
the level of policy discontinuance and the tax-free cash take-up: 82 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 NewBackend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:05 Page 83 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued use of valuation models.
Establishing valuations where there are no 2.
Use of estimates, assumptions and judgements quoted market prices inherently involves the use of judgement in continued establishing reserves against indicated valuations for aged positions, deteriorating economic conditions including country-specific risks, changes in assumptions behind the valuation techniques for assets concentrations in specific industries, types of instruments or that are not quoted in active markets could have a significant currencies, market liquidity, model risk itself and other factors.
impact on assets that are backing insurance and investment Market risk sensitivities are disclosed in note 30. contract liabilities.
The carrying amount of financial assets at fair value through the The sensitivity of liability valuations to key risks and assumptions is income statement excluding units in unit trusts and shares in openset out in note 27. ended investment companies that are not based on quoted market prices is 1,835m 2005: 1,391m.
The carrying value of insurance contracts liabilities is 13,762m 2005: 14,637m and investment contracts liabilities with DPF is e Staff pension schemes assumptions 5,700m 2005: 6,394m.
In assessing the pension benefit obligation, assumptions are made as to the life expectancy of all current, deferred and retired b Impairment testing members, rates of increases of salaries and pensions, and interest The Group is required to perform an annual impairment test of and inflation rates.
Material assumptions used and sensitivities are goodwill.
Other assets, excluding those assets held at fair value explained in detail in note 10. through the income statement, are reviewed where there is an indication of impairment.
For most assets this requires the Group to The carrying value of the net pension liability is 77m 2005: 107m.
estimate future cash flows and discount these amounts using a suitable rate which reflects the risk of those cash flows.
In f Share options and share based payments projecting cash flows, the Group makes a number of assumptions In assessing the cost of share options expected to vest, estimates are on matters which include, but are not restricted to: made of future staff leaver numbers on the basis of past experience, Investment market conditions and of the fair value of the options using assumptions including Sales and margins expected future levels of share price volatility and dividend yield.
Expenses Policy client lapses The amount charged to the income statement in respect of share Discount rates based payments is 22m 2005: 28m.
Terminal values g Deferred tax assets These assumptions are established using managements best In assessing deferred tax assets, an estimate of probable future estimate of the likely outcome but with all assumptions there taxable profits is made, against which the temporary differences, remains a degree of uncertainty as to the final results.
being the carry forward of excess tax expenses, and tax losses are utilised.
These involve managements best estimate based on past Management have determined that there are four segments for profit experience, adjusted for possible future deviations that impairment testing: UK Life & Pensions, Lombard, FPI and Asset management consider might occur.
The carrying value of deferred tax assets is 97m 2005: 91m.
The carrying value of goodwill is 662m 2005: 677m and of other intangible assets is 743m 2005: 913m.
Details of the testing of h Changes in accounting estimates impairment performed during the year are contained in note 16. i Investment management contracts Following a full impairment review of investment management c Provision for review of mortgage endowment and other sales contracts, in accordance with IAS36 Impairment of Assets, The Group has made provision for the estimated cost and impairment losses have been recognised in 2005 and 2006.
This compensation associated with the review of mortgage endowment review has led the Group to reconsider the average expected lives and other sales.
These provisions are subject to considerable of these assets.
With effect from 1 July 2006, the estimated uncertainty and are influenced by external factors beyond the control remaining useful lives of the assets were assessed as follows: of management.
Although the provisions are regularly reviewed, the final outcome could be different from the provision established.
Investment trusts 10 years Institutional non-fixed term 6 years The total carrying value including actuarial provisions for the review of mortgage endowment and other sales is 63m 2005: 142m.
The original estimate of their useful lives on acquisition of the assets in October 2004 was 20 years for investment trusts and 10 years for d Fair value determination of financial assets at fair value through non-fixed term institutional contracts.
The estimated useful lives of all the income statement other categories of investment management contracts are unchanged.
Fair values are based on quoted market prices for a specific instrument, or comparisons with other highly similar financial instruments, or the Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 83
