judgement is applied in estimating the IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure Notes to the impact of these considerations on and the Capital disclosure amendment the expected future cash flows.
to IAS 1 Presentation of financial Accounts statements which are applicable for periods Effective Interest Rate In calculating the commencing on or after 1 January 2007. effective interest rate of financial instruments The application of these standards in 2006 Accounting policies and in particular loans and advances the would not have had any financial impact as Statement of Compliance Group takes into account interest received they are only concerned with disclosure.
The financial statements of HBOS plc comprise or paid, fees and commissions paid or the Consolidated Income Statement and the received, expected early redemptions and IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, related penalties and premiums and discounts Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting Cash Flow Statements and Statements of on acquisition or issue that are integral to in Hyperinflationary Economies which is Recognised Income and Expense together with the yield as well as incremental transaction effective for periods commencing on or the related Notes to the Accounts.
These calculations are undertaken after 1 March 2006.
The application of this financial statements set out on pages 124 to on a portfolio basis other than in respect interpretation in 2006 would not have affected 191 have been prepared in accordance with of significant balances, relating principally the financial statements as the Group does International Financial Reporting Standards as to larger corporate customers, which are not operate in hyperinflationary economies.
adopted by the European Union IFRS.
In applying the portfolio standards adopted by the Group and Company basis the Group makes use of various IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share-based are those endorsed by the European Union and statistical modelling techniques which are Payment which is effective for periods effective at the date the financial statements are specific to different portfolios in estimating the commencing on or after 1 May 2006. approved by the Board.
expected cash flows from early redemptions The application of this interpretation in and related fees to the extent that these are 2006 would not have affected the financial The financial statements also comply with applicable.
Significant judgement is applied statements as share-based payment the relevant provisions of Part VII of the in selecting and updating these models.
transactions in the Group are made Companies Act 1985, as amended by In calculating the effective interest rates of for the receipt of identifiable services.
the Companies Act 1985 International individually significant balances the Group Accounting Standards and Other Accounting takes into account a number of relevant IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Amendments Regulations 2004.
Additionally considerations to estimate the cash flows Derivatives which is effective for periods the Group has applied Financial Reporting from early redemptions including previous commencing on or after 1 June 2006.
The Standard 27 Life Assurance issued by the UK experience of customer behaviour, credit application of this interpretation in 2006 would Accounting Standards Board as appropriate.
scoring of the customer and anticipated future not have affected the financial statements market conditions at the date of acquisition.
because the Groups approach to reassessing Basis of Preparation Significant judgement is applied in estimating embedded derivatives already reflects the The financial statements have been prepared the impact of these considerations on the requirements of the interpretation.
under the historical cost basis, except expected future cash flows.
that the following assets and liabilities The following standards and interpretations are stated at their fair values: derivatives, Defined Benefit Schemes The estimation have not yet been adopted by the European financial instruments held for trading, of the expected cash flows used in the Union, are not effective for the year ended financial instruments designated at fair value calculation of the defined benefit schemes 31 December 2006 and have not been through the income statement, financial liabilities includes a number of assumptions applied in preparing the financial statements: instruments classified as available for sale around mortality, inflation rates applicable to and investment properties.
defined benefits and the average expected IFRS 8 Operating Segments which is service lives of the employees.
The selection applicable for periods commencing on Critical Accounting Estimates and of these assumptions requires the application or after 1 January 2009.
The application Judgements of significant judgement by the Group.
of this standard in 2006 would not have had The preparation of the financial statements Similarly, judgement is applied in selecting the any financial impact as it is only concerned necessarily requires the exercise of judgement discount rate used to calculate the defined with disclosure.
both in the application of accounting policies benefit scheme liabilities based on the market which are set out below and in the selection yield at the balance sheet date of high quality IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and of assumptions used in the calculation of bonds with a similar duration to that of the Impairment which is effective for periods estimates.
These estimates and judgements schemes liabilities.
The sensitivity of the commencing on or after 1 November 2006. are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are scheme liabilities to changes in the principal The application of this interpretation in continually evaluated based on historical assumptions used are set out in Note 7 post 2006 would not have affected the financial experience and other factors.
statements as no reversals to impairment results may differ from these estimates.
The losses within the scope of this interpretation most significantly affected components of the Long Term Assurance Business The have been made.
financial statements and associated critical estimation of the Groups insurance and judgements are as follows: investment contracts with discretionary IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share participating features DPF liabilities Transactions which is effective for periods Impairment Losses on Loans and and related value of in-force VIF assets commencing on or after 1 March 2007.
Advances Impairment loss calculations relies on a number of assumptions in The application of this interpretation in involve the estimation of future cash flows forecasting future experience.
The selection 2006 would not have affected the financial of loans and advances based on observable of appropriate assumptions requires the statements because the interpretation deals data at the balance sheet date and historical application of material judgement and is with accounting for share-based payments loss experience for assets with similar credit made with reference to historic trends, at subsidiary level.
These calculations taking into account the analysis of actual are undertaken on a portfolio basis other versus expected experience as well IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements than in respect of significant balances, as industry data.
The sensitivity of the which is effective for periods commencing relating principally to larger corporate Groups results to changes in certain key on or after 1 January 2008.
The application customers, which are assessed individually.
variables on long term insurance contracts of this interpretation in 2006 would not have In applying the portfolio basis the Group and investment contracts with DPF are affected the financial statements.
makes use of various statistical modelling disclosed in Note 24 value of in-force long techniques which are specific to different term assurance business.
Basis of Consolidation portfolio types.
Significant judgement is The consolidated financial statements applied in selecting and updating these IFRS Not Yet Applied include the results of the Company and its models.
In calculating individual impairment The following standards and interpretations subsidiary undertakings, together with the provisions the Group takes account of a have been adopted by the European Union Groups interests in associated undertakings number of relevant considerations including but are not effective for the year ended 31 and jointly controlled entities.
historical experience, future prospects December 2006 and have not been applied of the customer, value of collateral held in preparing the financial statements: and reliability of information.
Significant 131 The resulting treatment of these financial settled or is terminated the associated gains Notes to the instruments is set out in the accounting and losses that were recognised directly policies below.
in reserves are reclassified to the income Accounts statement through net trading income.
Derivatives continued Derivatives are initially recognised at fair Thirdly, hedging of net investments in foreign value on the date the contract is entered operations is discussed within the foreign Subsidiaries into.
Where the fair value of a derivative is currencies accounting policy.
positive, it is carried as a derivative asset The financial statements of subsidiaries and special purpose entities controlled by the and where negative as a derivative liability.
A derivative may be embedded in The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair another financial instrument, known as Group are consolidated within the Group financial statements commencing on the value at the balance sheet date is taken to the host contract.
Where the economic net trading income except for the interest characteristics and risks of an embedded date control is obtained until the date control ceases.
Control is defined as being where accrual element relating to derivatives used derivative are not closely related to those of for economic hedging purposes that do not the host contract the embedded derivative the Group has power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of qualify for hedge accounting treatment which is separated from the host and held on is taken to net interest income, insurance balance sheet at fair value except for those such entities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable and investment related derivatives which are instruments that have been designated at fair taken to net investment income related to value through the income statement where or convertible are taken into account.
The effects of intra-group transactions are insurance and investment business or when the derivative is not separated from the host cash flow hedge accounting is employed.
Movements in fair value are eliminated on consolidation.
posted to the income statement through net Hedge accounting allows one financial trading income, whilst the host contract is Associated Undertakings and Jointly Controlled Entities instrument, generally a derivative such as accounted for in accordance with the policy a swap, to be designated as a hedge of for that class of financial instrument.
Associated undertakings are entities over which the Group has significant influence, another financial instrument such as a loan or deposit or a portfolio of the same.
At Derivative fair values are determined using but not control over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence inception of the hedge relationship formal valuation techniques that are consistent documentation must be drawn up specifying with techniques commonly used by market is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity the hedging strategy, the component participants to price these instruments.
transactions and the methodology that will These techniques include discounted cash but is not control over those policies.
be used to measure effectiveness.
flow analysis and other pricing models.
The fair values calculated from these models Jointly controlled entities are entities over which the Group has joint control under a Monitoring of hedge effectiveness is are regularly compared with prices obtained undertaken on an ongoing basis.
A hedge in actual market transactions to ensure contractual arrangement with other parties.
is regarded as effective if the change in fair reliability.
In all material instances these value or cash flows of the hedge instrument techniques use only observable market data.
The attributable shares of results of associated undertakings and jointly and the hedged item are negatively correlated within a range of 80% to 125% Loans and Advances controlled entities, generally based on audited accounts, are included in the either for the period since effectiveness was Loans and advances held for trading are last tested or cumulatively since inception.
Gains, losses and consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The share of related income are taken to net trading The Group uses three hedge accounting income as they arise.
any losses is restricted to a level that reflects an obligation to fund such losses.
Loans and advances classified or designated Designation of Financial Instruments Firstly, fair value hedge accounting offsets at fair value through the income statement the change in the fair value of the hedging are carried at fair value.
Gains, losses and The Group has classified its financial instruments in accordance with IAS 39 instrument against the change in the fair value related income are taken to other operating of the hedged item in respect of the risk being income as they arise, except for those related Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement as follows: hedged.
The hedged item is adjusted for the to insurance and investment business which fair value of the risk being hedged irrespective are taken to net investment income related to - Non-derivative financial assets where there is no active market and which have fixed of its financial instrument classification.
These insurance and investment business.
changes in fair value are recognised in the or determinable payments are classified as 'loans and receivables'.
income statement through net trading income.
All other loans and advances are classified Adjustments made to the carrying amount of as loans and receivables.
They are initially - The Groups trading portfolio is classified as held for trading.
the hedged item for fair value hedges will be recognised at fair value plus directly related amortised on an effective interest rate basis transaction costs and are subsequently - Derivative instruments are automatically classified as at fair value through the over the remaining expected life in line with carried at amortised cost using the effective the presentation of the underlying hedged interest method less provision for impairment.
income statement unless they form part of an effective hedging relationship.
If the hedge is highly effective the net impact on the income statement is minimised.
The Group assesses impairment individually - Instruments that are deemed on initial recognition to eliminate a measurement for financial assets that are significant and Secondly, cash flow hedge accounting individually or collectively for assets that are mismatch or where they contain an embedded derivative which is not matches the cash flows of hedged items not significant.
against the corresponding cash flow of the separated from the host contract are designated at fair value through the hedging derivative.
The effective part of Individual impairment is identified at any gain or loss on a hedging instrument a counterparty specific level following income statement.
- Assets in support of the general insurance is recognised directly in equity in the cash objective evidence that a financial asset flow hedge reserve and the hedged item is is impaired.
This may be after an interest and long term assurance business are designated at fair value through the accounted for in accordance with the policy or principal payment is missed or when a for that financial instrument.
Any ineffective banking covenant is breached.
- Investment contracts within the long term portion of the hedging instruments fair value value of estimated cash flows recoverable is recognised immediately in the income is determined after taking into account any assurance business are designated 'at fair value through the income statement'.
statement through net trading income.
The amount of any impairment The amount deferred in reserves remains is calculated by comparing the present - No financial assets are designated as 'held to maturity'.
until the designated transaction occurs at value of the cash flows discounted at the which time it is released and accounted loans original effective interest rate with the - All other financial assets are classified as available for sale.
for in the income statement in line with the carrying value.
If impaired, the carrying value treatment of the hedged item.
Additionally, in is adjusted and the difference charged to the - All other financial liabilities are classified as at amortised cost.
circumstances where the hedge relationship income statement.
subsequently proves ineffective, is early 132 The written down value of the impaired loan and are carried at fair value.
Gains, losses are included within deposits by banks is compounded back to the net realisable and related income are taken to net trading or customer accounts.
Conversely, debt balance over time using the original effective income as they arise.
securities acquired under commitments interest rate.
This is reported through interest to resell are not recognised in the balance receivable within the income statement and Investment securities designated at fair value sheet as debt securities where substantially represents the unwinding of the discount.
through the income statement are carried at all the risks and rewards do not pass to the fair value.
Gains, losses and related income Group.
In this case, the purchase price is A write-off is made when all or part of a are taken to other operating income as they included within loans and advances to banks claim is deemed uncollectable or forgiven.
arise, except for those related to insurance or loans and advances to customers.
The Write-offs are charged against previously and investment business which are taken to difference between sale and repurchase established provisions for impairment or net investment income related to insurance prices for such transactions is reflected directly to the income statement.
in the income statement over the lives of the transactions, within interest payable or In circumstances where an asset has been Debt securities other than those held for interest receivable as appropriate.
individually assessed for impairment and no trading or designated at fair value and for objective evidence of impairment exists, then which there is no active market are classified Goodwill it will be subject to a collective assessment.
They are initially The excess of the cost of a business recognised at fair value plus directly related combination over the interest in the net fair Collective impairment is identified for transaction costs and are subsequently value of the identifiable assets, liabilities groups of assets that share similar risk carried on the balance sheet at amortised and contingent liabilities at the date of characteristics.
Collective impairment is cost using the effective interest method less acquisition, of subsidiary undertakings, assessed using a methodology based on provision for impairment.
associated undertakings including jointly existing risk conditions or events that have a controlled entities and other businesses, is strong correlation with a tendency to default.
All other investment securities are classified capitalised as goodwill.
They are initially Loans and advances to customers include recognised at fair value plus directly related After initial recognition, goodwill is advances that are subject to non-returnable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated finance arrangements following securitisation carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
Goodwill carried in of portfolios of mortgages and other Unrealised gains or losses are recognised the consolidated balance sheet is subject advances.
The principal benefits of these directly in equity in the available for sale to a six monthly impairment review by advances were acquired by special purpose reserve, except for impairment losses or comparing the value in use with the carrying securitisation companies that fund their foreign exchange gains or losses related value.
When this indicates that the carrying purchase primarily through the issue of to debt securities, which are recognised value is not recoverable, it is irrevocably floating rate notes.
These floating rate notes immediately in the income statement in written down through the income statement are accounted for as debt securities in issue impairment on investment securities or other by the amount of any impaired loss on the balance sheet.
IFRS 3, Business Combinations debt securities is recognised on an effective has not been applied retrospectively to The fair value of loans and advances to interest rate basis and taken to interest business combinations that occurred before customers is estimated by discounting receivable through the income statement.
1 January 2004. anticipated cash flows, including interest, at a Income from equity shares is credited to current market rate of interest.
The fair value other operating income, with income on Software of floating rate placements and overnight listed equity shares being credited on the exCosts associated with the development deposits is equal to carrying value.
The fair dividend date and income on unlisted equity of software for internal use, subject to fide value of fixed interest bearing deposits is shares being credited on an equivalent basis.
minimis limits, are capitalised if the software is based on cash flows discounted using current On sale or maturity, previously unrealised technically feasible and the Group has both the money market interest rates for debts with gains and losses are recognised in other intent and sufficient resources to complete the similar maturity and credit risk characteristics.
Costs are only capitalised if the asset can be reliably measured, will generate Finance Leases and Operating Leases Impairment losses on available for sale future economic benefits and there is an ability Assets leased to customers that transfer equity instruments are not reversed through to use or sell the asset.
substantially all the risks and rewards the income statement.
Any increase in the incidental to ownership to the customer fair value of an available for sale equity Only costs that are directly attributable to are classified as finance leases.
Together instrument after an impairment loss has been bringing the asset into working condition with instalment credit agreements, they recognised is treated as a revaluation and for its intended use are capitalised.
These are recorded at an amount equal to the net recognised directly in equity.
An impairment costs include all directly attributable costs investment in the lease, less any provisions loss on an available for sale debt instrument necessary to create, produce and prepare the for impairment, within loans and advances is reversed through the income statement, asset to be capable of operating in a manner to customers.
if there is evidence that the increase in fair intended by management.
Other development value is due to an event that occurred after expenditure is recognised in the income The difference between the gross receivable the impairment loss was recognised.
statement as an expense as incurred.
and the present value of the receivable is recognised as unearned finance income.
The fair value of investment securities is Capitalised development expenditure and Lease income is recognised over the term of based on market prices or broker dealer purchased software is stated at cost less the lease using the net investment method, valuations.
Where this information is accumulated amortisation and impairment which reflects a constant periodic rate of not available, the fair value is estimated losses.
Once the software is ready for return on the net investment.
using quoted market prices for securities use, the capitalised costs are amortised with similar credit, maturity and yield over their expected lives, generally four All other assets leased to customers are characteristics or similar valuation models.
Capitalised software is assessed for classified as operating leases.
These assets impairment where there is an indication of are separately disclosed in the balance sheet The Group uses settlement date accounting impairment.
Where impairment exists, the and are recorded at cost less aggregate when recording the purchase and sale of carrying amount of the asset is reduced to depreciation, which is calculated on a investment securities, with the exception of its recoverable amount and the impairment straight-line basis.
Operating lease rentals are those held for trading for which trade date loss recognised in the income statement.
recognised in operating income on a straightaccounting is used.
The amortisation charge for the asset is line basis over the lease term.
Operating lease then adjusted to reflect the assets revised assets are reviewed for impairment when Repurchase Agreements carrying amount.
there is an indication of impairment.
Debt securities sold subject to repurchase agreements are retained within the balance Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised Investment Securities sheet where the Group retains substantially when it increases the future economic Investment securities held for trading are all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
benefits embodied in the specific asset to classified as financial assets held for trading Funds received under these arrangements which it relates.
133 Taxation share-based compensation schemes in Notes to the Income tax on the profit or loss for the year exchange for employee services received.
comprises current and deferred tax.
Income The fair values of options or shares granted Accounts tax is recognised in the income statement is determined at the date of grant and except to the extent that it relates to items expensed over the vesting period.
The fair continued recognised directly in equity, in which case values of the options or shares granted are it is recognised in equity.
The tax charge measured using various models, taking into Purchased Value of In-Force is analysed between tax that is payable in account the terms and conditions upon respect of policyholder returns and tax that which the options and shares were granted.
Investment Contracts The Groups contractual rights to benefits is payable on shareholders equity returns.
At each balance sheet date the Group revises This allocation is based on an assessment of its estimate of the number of options or from providing investment management services in relation to investment contracts the effective rate of tax that is applicable to shares that it expects to vest and spreads any shareholders equity for the year.
adjustments required to the income statement acquired in business combinations and portfolio transfers are measured at fair value over the remaining vesting period except for Deferred tax is provided using the balance those which relate to a market condition for at the time of acquisition.
The resulting asset is referred to as purchased value of in-force sheet liability method, providing for which no adjustment is permitted.
temporary differences between the carrying investment contracts PVIF and is amortised over the estimated lives of the contracts amounts of assets and liabilities for financial Deposits by Banks and Customer reporting purposes and the amounts Accounts on a systematic basis.
PVIF is assessed for impairment where there is an indication of used for taxation purposes.
The following Deposits by banks and customer accounts temporary differences are not provided: held for trading are classified as financial impairment.
Where impairment exists, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, liabilities held for trading and are carried at the initial recognition of assets and liabilities fair value.
Gains, losses and related income its recoverable amount and the impairment loss recognised in the income statement.
The that affects neither accounting nor taxable are taken to net trading income as they arise.
profit and differences relating to investments All other customer accounts and deposits by amortisation charge is then adjusted to reflect the revised carrying amount.
in subsidiaries to the extent that they will banks are held at amortised cost using the probably not reverse in the foreseeable effective interest method.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of The fair value of customer deposits with Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and realisation or settlement of the carrying no stated maturity date is the amount amount of assets and liabilities, using tax repayable on demand.
The estimated fair impairment losses.
rates at the balance sheet date.
value of fixed interest bearing deposits and other borrowings with no quoted market Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold and leasehold property, other than freehold Disposal Group price is calculated using a cash flow model Assets and liabilities of a disposal group are discounted using interest rates for debts with investment properties, is stated at cost and depreciated over fifty years or the length of classified as held for sale where the carrying similar maturity.
amount will be recovered principally through the lease term if shorter.
Improvements to leasehold properties are stated at cost and a sale transaction as opposed to continuing Other Borrowed Funds use and they are available for sale in the Other borrowed funds comprises preference are depreciated in equal instalments over the lesser of the remaining life of the lease present condition subject only to the terms shares that are classified as debt, preferred that are usual and customary for the sale securities and subordinated liabilities, all of or eight years.
Premiums are amortised over the period of the lease.
of such assets and liabilities and the sale which are held at amortised cost.
being highly probable and is expected to The cost of equipment, which includes complete within one year of being classified Preference shares are classified as debt as a disposal group.
The disposal group is where they are redeemable on a specific fixtures and fittings, vehicles and computer hardware, less estimated residual value, measured at the lower of carrying amount date or at the option of the shareholders or and fair value less costs to sell.
if dividend payments are not discretionary.
is written off in equal instalments over the expected lives of the assets, generally Dividends on preference shares classified as fide ned Contribution Schemes debt are recognised in the income statement between three and eight years.
Obligations for contributions to defined through interest payable.
contribution pension schemes are Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount, only when it is probable recognised as an expense in the income Preferred securities are classified as debt statement as incurred.
where they are redeemable on a specific that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the date or at the option of the holders or if fide ned Bene t Schemes interest payments are not discretionary.
cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The Groups net obligation in respect of The interest payable on such securities is defined benefit pension plans is calculated recognised in the income statement through Property and equipment is assessed for impairment where there is an indication of separately for each plan.
The net obligation interest payable.
represents the present value of the future impairment.
Where impairment exists, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to benefits owed to employees in return for Subordinated liabilities consist of dated and their service in the current and prior periods, undated loan capital.
The interest payable is its recoverable amount and the impairment loss recognised in the income statement.
after the deduction of the fair value of any recognised in the income statement through plan assets.
The depreciation charge for the asset is then adjusted to reflect the assets revised The discount rate used is the market yield Debt Securities in Issue carrying amount.
on high quality corporate bonds at the Debt securities in issue held for trading are balance sheet date that have maturity dates classified as financial liabilities held for trading Investment Properties Investment properties which are defined as approximating to the terms of the Groups and are carried at fair value.
The calculation is performed by and related income are taken to net trading properties held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both, are a qualified actuary using the projected unit income as they arise.
Debt securities in issue credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses designated at fair value through the income initially recognised at cost and are fair valued annually.
Any gains or losses arising from arising are taken directly to equity in the statement are carried at fair value.
Gains, period in which they are incurred.
losses and related income are taken to other a change in the fair value are recognised in the income statement in the period that operating income as they arise, except for The charge to the income statement includes those related to insurance and investment they occur through other operating income except for those relating to insurance and current service cost, past service cost, the business which are taken to net investment interest cost of the scheme liabilities and the income related to insurance and investment investment business which are taken through net investment income related to insurance expected return on scheme assets.
All other debt securities in issue are held at amortised cost.
They are initially and investment income.
Investment properties are not depreciated.
Share-based Payments recognised at fair value plus directly related The Group operates various equity-settled transaction costs and are subsequently 134 carried on the balance sheet at amortised investment in foreign operations, and the terms of a debt instrument.
Intra-group cost using the effective interest method.
of borrowings and other currency financial guarantee contracts are accounted instruments designated as hedges of such for as insurance contracts.
This practice will Fair values are calculated based on quoted investments, are taken to equity where the also be applied to any such contract written market prices.
Where quoted market prices hedge is deemed to be effective.
are not available, a cash flow model is used, foreign operation is sold, such exchange discounted using an appropriate current yield differences are recognised in the income Long Term Assurance Business curve for the remaining term to maturity.
statement as part of the gain or loss on Product Classi cation sale.
The ineffective portion of any net The Group has classified its long term Other Provisions investment hedge is recognised in the assurance business in accordance with IFRS The Group recognises a provision if there is income statement immediately.
4 Insurance Contracts as follows: a present obligation either as a consequence - Insurance contracts are contracts of a legal or constructive obligation resulting Cumulative translation differences for all containing significant insurance risk.
from a past event for which it is probable that foreign operations are deemed to be zero - Investment contracts with a discretionary an outflow of economic resources that can at 1 January 2004.
Any gain or loss on the participation feature DPF are contracts be reliably measured will be required to settle subsequent disposal of a foreign operation that do not contain significant insurance the obligation.
Provisions are measured as shall exclude translation differences that risk but that contain discretionary the discounted expected future cash flows arose before 1 January 2004, but include participation features, which are with-profit taking account of the risks and uncertainties later translation differences.
associated with the specific liability where - Investment contracts are contracts that appropriate.
A constructive obligation is only Cash and Cash Equivalents have neither significant insurance risk nor deemed to exist in respect of restructuring Cash and cash equivalents are held for a DPF.
provisions once a detailed restructuring plan the purpose of meeting short term cash has been formally approved and the plan commitments rather than investing or other Insurance Contracts and Investment has been announced publicly or work on the purposes.
Cash and cash equivalents Contracts with DPF restructure has commenced.
consist of cash and balances at central Insurance contracts and investment contracts banks that are freely available, and loans and with DPF liabilities written within the withNetting advances to banks with a maturity of three profit fund including both traditional and Assets and liabilities are shown net where months or less excluding financial assets unitised with-profit contracts are calculated there is a legal right of offset and there is an that are held for trading purposes.
with reference to the expected payout intention and ability to settle on a net basis.
using realistic and where applicable market The Group nets loans, deposits and derivative General Insurance Business consistent assumptions in accordance with transactions covered by master agreements The Group underwrites general insurance FRS 27.
For insurance contracts premiums where current net settlement is permitted products.
For each general insurance policy are recognised as revenue when due from the under the terms of the relevant agreements.
underwritten, premiums net of refunds are policyholder and claims payable are recorded credited to net operating income over the when notified except for unitised with-profit Foreign Currencies period of risk coverage of the insurance policy.
contracts where the choice of fund is the The consolidated financial statements are only source of insurance risk in which case presented in sterling which is the Companys The cost of claims notified but not settled deposits and withdrawals are accounted functional and presentation currency.
and claims incurred but not reported at for directly in the balance sheet.
Similarly, the balance sheet date are estimated and investment contracts with DPF deposits and Foreign currency transactions are translated provided for.
Claims incurred comprise withdrawals are accounted for directly in the into sterling at the exchange rate prevailing the settlement and handling costs of paid balance sheet.
at the date of the transaction.
and outstanding claims arising from events occurring during the financial year together Insurance contract liabilities within the nonExchange gains and losses arising from the with adjustments to prior year claims profit funds are calculated in accordance translation at balance sheet date exchange provisions.
Estimates are based upon with the Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers rates of monetary assets and liabilities are an assessment of the likely costs taking 'INS PRU issued by the UK Financial recognised in the income statement except for account of all known facts.
Where the Services Authority, excluding the impact of differences arising from net investment hedges outcome of outstanding cases is unclear, PS06 14 'Prudential changes for Insurers' and derivatives related to cash flow hedges statistical techniques are used which take issued in December 2006.
These are which are recognised directly in equity.
into account the cost of recent similar adjusted to remove excessively prudent claim settlements.
closure provisions and certain other reserves The results and financial position of all Group required under the INS PRU rules.
Premiums entities that have a functional currency Costs related to the acquisition of new are recognised as revenue when due from different from sterling are translated into insurance contracts including commissions the policyholder and claims payable are sterling as follows: paid to intermediaries and other related recorded when notified in the income - assets and liabilities for each balance administration costs are capitalised as statement.
The cost of claims is estimated sheet presented are translated at the deferred acquisition costs DAC and based upon an assessment of the likely closing rate at the date of the balance amortised on the same basis that premiums costs taking account of all known facts.
- goodwill and fair value adjustments arising The accounting policies set out above in on the acquisition of a foreign entity are Where the expected value of claims and respect of the measurement of the insurance treated as assets and liabilities of the expenses attributable to unexpired risk contracts written within the with-profit and foreign entity and translated at the closing periods exceed the value of unearned non-profit funds and investment contracts rate: and premiums less DAC, at the balance sheet with DPF liabilities include liability adequacy - income and expenses are translated date, additional provisions are made for the testing that meets the requirements of IFRS at the average exchange rates for the anticipated losses.
period unless this is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect The accounting policies set out above in Unallocated Surplus of the rates prevailing on the transaction respect of the measurement of the insurance The unallocated surplus is accounted for dates, in which case income and contract liabilities include liability adequacy as a liability as permitted by IFRS 4.
The expenses are translated at the dates of the testing that meets the requirements of IFRS carrying value of the unallocated surplus transactions.
is determined as the residual assets of the with-profit fund after providing for the All resulting exchange differences are Guarantees with-profit liabilities in accordance with the recognised as a separate component of Financial guarantees are contracts that policies described above.
require the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss Value of In-Force Long Term Assurance On consolidation, exchange differences it incurs because a specified debtor fails to Business VIF arising from the translation of the net make payment when due in accordance with The Group places a value on the insurance 135 investment management services in relation Notes to the to investment contracts, other than through a business combination or portfolio transfer Accounts refer to the accounting policy for intangible assets, are recognised as an asset if it continued is probable that they will be recovered.
Incremental costs include commissions paid contracts and investment contracts with to intermediaries and other similar costs.
This asset, referred to as deferred origination DPF, which represents the present value of future cash flows attributable to the Group costs, is amortised as the related investment management revenue is recognised, and with respect to these contracts.
The change in VIF is accounted for as revenue.
its recoverability assessed at each balance sheet date on a portfolio basis.
In-force business is defined as all policies General Insurance and Long Term where the first premium has been paid.
For traditional with-profit business, the surplus Assurance Business Assets The assets held in support of the general attributable to the Group equates to one ninth of the cost of the bonuses declared in any insurance and long term assurance businesses including those within year.
The level of assumed future bonuses is calculated by projecting the portfolio of shareholders funds are monitored and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with-profit business forward and applying reversionary and terminal bonus rates so as with the investment strategy.
This basis is consistent with the method used for to exhaust the projected surplus of assets attributable to with-profit policyholders.
Accordingly, the Group has designated these assets as at fair value Investment Contracts through the income statement.
Interest, dividends, foreign exchange gains and The Groups investment contracts, which include collective investment schemes, losses, and fair value movements including movement on derivatives held to manage the are primarily unit-linked.
These contracts are managed and evaluated on a fair return on those assets are recorded in net investment income related to insurance and value basis in accordance with the terms of the contracts as benefits are linked to investment business.
the fair value of the assets supporting the contracts.
Accordingly, the investment Effective Interest Rate Revenue on financial instruments classified contract liabilities have been designated at fair value through the income statement as loans and receivables, available for sale, or financial liabilities at amortised cost, is with fair value changes recognised through change in investment contract recognised on an effective interest rate basis.
This calculation takes into account liabilities.
The fair value of the liabilities is estimated using a valuation technique.
In interest received or paid and fees and commissions paid or received that are accordance with this technique the liability is established as the bid value of the assets integral to the yield as well as incremental transaction costs.
The effective interest rate held to match the liability, less an allowance in relation to deductions made to the is the rate that discounts the expected future cash flows over the expected life of the liability for capital gains tax on the gains relating to the matching assets.
Deposits financial instrument or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of and withdrawals are accounted for directly in the balance sheet as adjustments to the the financial instrument at initial recognition.
liability with other changes recognised in the income statement.
Fees and Commissions Fee and commission income and expense Revenue in relation to investment is recognised in the income statement as the related service is provided except those management services is recognised as the services are provided.
Incremental costs that are integral to the effective interest rate calculations or to investment contract directly attributable to securing the Groups contractual right to benefit from providing deferred origination costs.
136 Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Income 2006 2005 m m Included within net interest income are the following: Interest receivable on financial instruments not designated as at fair value through the income statement 26,733 24,134 Interest payable on financial instruments not designated as at fair value through the income statement 19,269 17,261 Net gains less losses on financial instruments designated as at fair value through the income statement are included in: Interest receivable 9 Interest payable 73 44 Net trading income 23 7 Net investment income related to insurance and investment business 5,327 8,742 Other operating income 15 6 Net trading income comprises: Equity and commodity instruments and related derivatives 20 23 Interest bearing securities and related derivatives 164 116 Foreign exchange and related derivatives 95 79 279 218 Included within net operating income are the following: Dividend income on financial investments designated as available for sale 25 125 Net realised gains on sale of financial instruments designated as available for sale 244 168 Net realised gains on sale of financial instruments designated as loans and receivables 1 4 Non-operating income comprises: Profit on sale and leaseback of certain branch premises 22 46 Profit on the part disposal of Rightmove plc 17 Profit on the dilution of shareholding in Invista Real Estate Investment Management Holdings plc 'Invista' 22 Profit on the sale of Retail Financial Services Limited 9 Profit on the sale of Drive Financial Services LP 180 250 46 2.
Change in Investment Contract Liabilities 2006 2005 m m Net change in investment contracts designated at fair value through the income statement 3,034 3,101 Net change in investment contracts with DPF 124 1,988 2,910 5,089 3.
Administrative Expenses 2006 2005 m m Administrative expenses include: Mortgage endowment compensation 95 260 Retail rationalisation costs 84 95 344 Administrative expenses also include: Staff costs Note 4 2,674 2,432 Accommodation, repairs and maintenance 421 399 Technology 238 220 Marketing and communication 367 343 137 Notes to the Accounts continued 4.
Staff Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 Number Number Number Number The average number of persons employed during the year was: Full time 57,884 55,384 52,033 49,126 Part time 16,368 16,601 16,229 16,128 74,252 71,985 68,262 65,254 Most UK based staff are contractually employed by the Company.
The expense related to these employees is recharged to the subsidiary that gains the benefit of their employment and accordingly there are no residual staff costs held by the Company.
2006 2005 m m The aggregate remuneration payable to Group employees is included within administrative expenses and comprises: Wages and salaries 2,137 1,940 Social security costs 228 181 Pension costs Note 7 205 225 Other post retirement benefits Note 7 3 3 Expense arising from share-based payments Note 8 101 83 Staff costs charged to administrative expenses 2,674 2,432 5.
Directors Remuneration 2006 2005 000 000 Total emoluments 10,337 7,969 Total potential pre-tax gains on share options exercised 402 309 Total value of shares vested under long term incentive schemes 5,921 9,010 Retirement benefits accrued to 1 Director 2005 5 Directors for the full year and for 5 Directors until 5 April 2006 at which point their benefits were above the 'lifetime allowance' at 'A-day'.
Thereafter further service based accrual ceased with the 5 Directors receiving an annual nonpensionable cash allowance of 25% of salary, payable monthly, in lieu.
These payments are included in total emoluments.
A detailed analysis of Directors emoluments, pension entitlements, share interests, share options and shares received under long term incentive schemes is given on pages 104 to 117 in the Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice.
Auditors Remuneration The aggregate remuneration of KPMG Audit Plc and its associates for audit and other services excluding value added taxes is analysed below.
Audit and Non-audit 2006 Audit and Non-audit 2005 audit-related services Total audit-related services Total services services m m m m m m Statutory audit of the Company and HBOS consolidation 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Fees payable for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries and associates 6.5 6.5 5.9 5.9 Audit of the Company's pension schemes 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Other services pursuant to legislation 1.4 1.4 2.4 2.4 Tax services compliance and advisory 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 Services relating to information technology 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.7 0.7 1.0 1.0 Other services 1.1 1.1 1.5 1.5 Total other services 8.0 3.0 11.0 8.4 3.7 12.1 Total 8.3 3.0 11.3 8.7 3.7 12.4 The analysis of 2005 auditors remuneration has been restated to reflect the new guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales on the disclosure of auditors' remuneration.
138 Notes to the Accounts continued 6.
Auditors Remuneration continued Other services pursuant to legislation includes work in support of regulatory reporting and listing rules and includes the review of the half yearly results 'audit-related services'.
Other services relating to corporate finance transactions includes fees for reviews in relation to capital and debt issues, securitisations and covered bond issues.
Included within non-audit services are nil 2005 0.5m of fees which have been capitalised during the year and are included in issue costs for certain securitisation and capital issues.
In respect of the Company, fees in respect of the statutory audit were 22,000 2005 20,000 and other fees amounted to 0.2m 2005 1.1m.
As explained in the Corporate Governance Report on page 97 each year the Audit Committee reviews the policy covering the engagement of the external auditors to undertake non-audit work on behalf of the Group.
For this purpose the audit of the Companys subsidiaries and other services pursuant to legislation are deemed to be audit services.
For 2006 the Audit Committee established a limit such that the fees for nonaudit services undertaken by KPMG Audit Plc and its associates should not exceed the fees for audit services.
On this basis the total of audit and audit-related services is 8.3m 2005 8.7m and non-audit services 3.0m 2005 3.7m.
Post Retirement Bene ts The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes, as well as defined benefit post retirement medical and concessionary mortgage plans.
fide ned contribution post employment bene t plans The principal Group defined contribution plan is the HBOS Group Money Purchase Scheme.
It is funded by contributions from employees and the Group.
With effect from May 2006, a process of automatic enrolment was introduced for both new employees and those that had not previously taken the opportunity to join.
Employees may still opt out of the scheme if they wish to do so.
This resulted in a substantial increase in the membership of the scheme.
The level of Group contributions made available to employees was also improved during the year.
For the majority of members who contribute at the new core rate of 4%, the Group will now contribute at 6%.
In addition, if members wish to pay more then the Group will also make further contributions in respect of the members first 4% of additional contributions.
For the majority of members, stepping their contribution rate to 8% will result in the Group stepping up its rate to 12%.
Higher levels of Group contributions are available to more senior employees.
Alternatively, members may elect to pay a lower contribution of 2% and receive Group contributions at 3%.
These levels of contributions for employee and Group are the default rates for the majority of the existing members at April 2006 and other employees that were automatically enrolled.
The respective default rates for employee and Group contributions are being increased to 3% and 4.5% in 2007 and 4% and 6% in 2008.
The expense of all the Group defined contribution plans for the year ended 31 December 2006 was 44m 2005 20m.
fide ned bene t post employment bene t plans The Group provides several defined benefit plans.
On 3 July 2006 the assets and liabilities of the Groups four main UK defined benefit pension schemes, the Halifax Retirement Fund, the Bank of Scotland 1976 Pension Scheme, the Birmingham Midshires Pension Scheme and the Clerical Medical Staff Superannuation Fund were merged to form the HBOS Final Salary Pension Scheme HBOS FSPS and the net liability transferred to the Company.
Accordingly, prior year disclosures have been re-analysed to show pro forma comparatives for the HBOS FSPS based on the comparative disclosures of the four legacy schemes.
This re-analysis has not changed the total comparative disclosures for the Group.
The HBOS FSPS is a closed funded scheme.
The most recent published valuations of the Halifax Retirement Fund and the Bank of Scotland 1976 Pension Scheme were carried out as at 31 March 2003 and 31 December 2004, respectively, and for the Birmingham Midshires Pension Scheme and the Clerical Medical Staff Superannuation Fund as at 31 December 2004 and 1 January 2005, respectively.
The financial assumptions adopted within these valuations were derived based upon the economic conditions prevailing at the date of valuation.
Following the formation of the HBOS FSPS, the trustees and Company are working to develop a long term investment strategy for it.
Currently, the level of regular contributions payable by the Group to the HBOS FSPS is based on a weighted mixture of the contribution rates of the legacy schemes.
Separate disclosures for all other defined benefit pension plans within the Group are made under the heading Other Schemes.
These contain a mixture of funded and unfunded schemes, including unfunded pension liabilities that have been secured by assets held by the Company.
These assets, comprising listed investment securities held at a value of 36m at 31 December 2006 2005 36m, would only be available to members in the event of certain contingencies, such as the failure to pay benefits.
Separate disclosures are also made on a combined basis for the unfunded post retirement medical plans and concessionary mortgage plans under the heading Other Post Retirement Benefits, which have also been transferred to the Company during the year.
The assets of the Groups funded schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds, which are independent of the Groups own assets, to meet the long term pension liabilities of past and present employees.
The trustees of the schemes are required to act with regard to the best interests of the schemes beneficiaries and a number of trustees are nominated or elected by the members of the schemes.
The trustees, in consultation with the Group, set the schemes investment strategies and, with the agreement of the Group, set the level of contributions to be made to the schemes.
The liabilities of the defined benefit schemes are measured by discounting the estimated future cash flows to be paid out by the schemes using the projected unit method.
This method is an accrued benefit valuation technique that makes allowances for projected earnings.
The Group estimates the average duration of the liabilities of the defined benefit scheme to be 23 years.
139 Notes to the Accounts continued 7.
Post Retirement Bene ts continued The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Groups net obligation in respect of its defined benefit plans is as follows: 2006 2005 HBOS Other Other Post Total HBOS Other Other Post Total FSPS Schemes Retirement FSPS Schemes Retirement Benefits Benefits m m m m m m m m Defined benefit obligations 6,952 549 55 7,556 6,635 500 49 7,184 Fair value of assets 6,174 470 6,644 4,934 409 5,343 Net post retirement benefit liabilities 778 79 55 912 1,701 91 49 1,841 Movements in the net post retirement benefit liabilities were as follows: At 1 January 1,701 91 49 1,841 1,616 100 46 1,762 Pension expense 148 13 3 164 190 15 3 208 Group contributions 826 31 857 325 41 366 Benefits paid directly by the Group 1 2 3 2 2 Actuarial gains losses 245 7 5 233 220 17 2 239 At 31 December 778 79 55 912 1,701 91 49 1,841 Movements in the defined benefit obligations were as follows: At 1 January 6,635 500 49 7,184 5,447 452 46 5,945 Current service cost 210 9 1 220 187 12 1 200 Plan participant contributions 21 3 24 23 23 Interest cost 319 25 2 346 294 23 2 319 Benefits paid 144 11 155 122 11 133 Benefits paid directly by the Group 1 2 1 2 2 Net actuarial losses gains 96 32 5 59 801 27 2 830 Past service cost 7 1 8 5 3 8 Settlement curtailment 7 7 4 4 Foreign exchange translation 4 4 2 2 At 31 December 6,952 549 55 7,556 6,635 500 49 7,184 Movements in the fair value of plan assets were as follows: At 1 January 4,934 409 5,343 3,831 352 4,183 Actual return on plan assets 537 47 584 877 34 911 Group contributions 826 31 857 325 41 366 Plan participant contributions 21 3 24 23 23 Benefits paid 144 11 155 122 11 133 Settlement curtailment 7 7 5 5 Foreign exchange translation 2 2 2 2 At 31 December 6,174 470 6,644 4,934 409 5,343 The fair value of plan assets at 31 December comprise the following: Equity instruments 4,190 277 4,467 3,895 242 4,137 Bonds 1,636 58 1,694 706 31 737 With-profit investments 54 54 136 136 Property 270 270 254 254 Other assets 78 81 159 79 79 Total value of assets 6,174 470 6,644 4,934 409 5,343 During 2006 Group contributions included additional contributions of 685m 2005 120m made specifically to reduce the funding deficits of the schemes.
A formal valuation of the HBOS FSPS by an independent actuary will be carried out as at 31 December 2006, after which the schedule of contributions for 2007 is likely to be revised.
On transfer of the schemes to the Company the defined benefit obligations transferred totalled 6,520m and the fair value of the plan assets amounted to 5,064m.
At 31 December 2006, the net post retirement liabilities of the Company amounted to 877m 2005 nil and comprise the HBOS FSPS 778m 2005 nil, the other post retirement benefits 55m 2005 nil and certain unfunded liabilities of 44m 2005 nil that are included within other schemes.
Following the transfer of the schemes, the elements of the movements in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of the plan assets in the Company related to the pension expense have been fully recharged to subsidiary undertakings, which have also paid benefits and normal contributions on behalf of the Company.
140 Notes to the Accounts continued 7.
Post Retirement Bene ts continued The expense recognised in the income statement for the year ending 31 December comprises: 2006 2005 HBOS Other Other Post Total HBOS Other Other Post Total FSPS Schemes Retirement FSPS Schemes Retirement Benefits Benefits m m m m m m m m Current service cost 210 9 1 220 187 12 1 200 Interest cost 319 25 2 346 294 23 2 319 Expected return on assets 388 22 410 296 24 320 Settlement curtailment 1 1 Past service cost 7 1 8 5 3 8 Total pension expense 148 13 3 164 190 15 3 208 The actuarial gains losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense for the year ending 31 December comprises: 2006 2005 HBOS Other Other Post Total HBOS Other Other Post Total FSPS Schemes Retirement FSPS Schemes Retirement Benefits Benefits m m m m m m m m Actuarial gain on plan assets 149 25 174 581 10 591 Experience gain loss on plan liabilities 136 7 1 144 83 7 90 Loss from change in assumptions 40 39 6 85 718 20 2 740 Total actuarial gains losses 245 7 5 233 220 17 2 239 The history of expected and actual returns on plan assets for the HBOS FSPS and other schemes is as follows: 2006 2005 2004 HBOS Other Total HBOS Other Total HBOS Other Total FSPS Schemes FSPS Schemes FSPS Schemes m m m m m m m m m Expected return on plan assets 388 22 410 296 24 320 272 21 293 Actuarial gain on plan assets 149 25 174 581 10 591 27 22 49 Actual return on plan assets 537 47 584 877 34 911 299 43 342 The history of experience adjustments for the HBOS FSPS and other schemes is as follows: 2006 2005 2004 HBOS Other Total HBOS Other Total HBOS Other Total FSPS Schemes FSPS Schemes FSPS Schemes m m m m m m m m m Defined benefit obligations 6,952 549 7,501 6,635 500 7,135 5,447 452 5,899 Fair value of plan assets 6,174 470 6,644 4,934 409 5,343 3,831 352 4,183 Net liabilities 778 79 857 1,701 91 1,792 1,616 100 1,716 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities Gain loss m 136 7 143 83 7 90 65 22 43 Percentage of plan liabilities % 2 1 2 1 1 1 1 5 1 Experience adjustments on plan assets Gain m 149 25 174 581 10 591 27 22 49 Percentage of plan assets % 2 5 3 12 2 11 1 6 1 The net actuarial gain on the defined benefit obligations of 59m in 2006 includes a loss of 348m in respect of changes in life expectancy arising from the use of recently published mortality tables, offset by gains arising from changes in the discount rate and other actuarial assumptions.
The net actuarial losses of the defined benefit obligations of 830m in 2005 principally arose from the change in the discount rate assumption.
The discount rate is based on an average yield from long-dated AA corporate bonds which fell significantly in 2005.
The Groups policy for recognising actuarial gains and losses is to take them directly to reserves in the period in which they arise.
A gain of 163m 2005 loss of 167m net of tax was recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense in the year.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense at 31 December 2006 amount to a loss of 136m 2005 299m net of tax.
141 Notes to the Accounts continued 7.
Post Retirement Bene ts continued Summary of assumptions and membership data The following assumptions and data have been used in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes: HBOS FSPS Other Schemes 2007 2006 2005 2004 2007 2006 2005 2004 Actuarial assumptions at beginning of the year Discount rate % 5.15 4.85 5.45 5.60 5.15 4.85 5.45 5.60 RPI inflation rate 3.0 2.8 2.8 2.8 3.0 2.8 2.8 2.8 Expected return a on plan assets % 7.18 7.15 7.71 7.76 6.86 6.29 6.20 6.45 b Salary increases % 3.5 3.3 3.8 3.8 3.5 3.3 3.8 3.8 c Pension increases % 3.0 2.8 2.8 2.8 3.0 2.8 2.8 2.8 Life expectancy at age 60 years Retired members Males 26 23 23 21-24 26 23 23 21-24 Females 27 26 26 24-27 27 26 26 24-27 Non-retired members Males 27 24 24 21-25 27 24 24 21-25 Females 29 27 27 26-28 29 27 27 26-28 a The expected return on plan assets is the weighted average of the expected returns of the main asset classes.
These returns reflect a combination of historical performance, the forward looking views of financial markets, as suggested by the yields available, and the views of investment organisations.
For 2007 the expected returns are 8.3% on equities, 5.15% on bonds and 6.75% on property.
b In addition to the general assumed rate of salary increases, there is a separate assumed salary scale of increases due to promotions and increasing seniority.
c The pension increase is on the excess over the Guaranteed Minimum Pension.
Pensions which are guaranteed to increase at a rate of at least 3% per annum have been assumed to increase at 3.4% per annum for the end of year calculations 3.25% per annum for previous calculations.
A summary of the membership data at the end of each year is as follows: HBOS FSPS Other Schemes 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 Active members Number 30,044 32,504 35,136 2,113 2,289 1,504 Covered annual payroll m 747 764 785 82 78 56 Average age 41 41 40 44 43 41 Average service 14 13 12 11 12 11 Deferred members Number 35,167 32,844 32,135 2,019 1,969 1,764 Average age 42 44 43 47 44 45 Retired members Number 13,866 12,932 11,182 677 644 663 Total annual pensions m 120 112 105 10 9 9 Average age 63 64 64 64 65 64 The principal assumptions used in the calculation of the other post retirement benefits are the discount rate, which is the same as that used for the pension schemes and the medical cost trend rate which has been assumed to be the same as the discount rate.
Sensitivity analysis for each of the assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities, showing the increase in defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2006.
Factor Change in assumption HBOS Other FSPS Schemes Discount rate decr ease 0.1% increase 2.3% increase 2.2% Rate of inflation incr ease 0.1% incr ease 2.2% increase 2.2% Rate of salary growth incr ease 0.1% incr ease 0.4% increase 0.5% Life expectancy at age 60 incr ease by 1 year incr ease 2.7% increase 2.4% 142 Notes to the Accounts continued 8.
Share-based Payments The Group believes that share ownership by colleagues throughout the Group enhances their alignment with shareholders interests.
Therefore, colleagues in the Group are able to own HBOS shares through various share-based payment arrangements.
During the year ended 31 December 2006, the Group operated the following share-based payment arrangements, which are predominantly equity-settled: Sharesave plan This is a standard tax-approved scheme that is available to all colleagues.
Share option plans The final award under the HBOS plan was made in 2004.
Under this plan options over shares at market value, with a face value equal to 20% of salary, were awarded to all colleagues with the exception of those of level 8 and above.
A separate option plan exists for St. Jamess Place, which awards options in respect of HBOS shares, and which continues to operate.
Free shares This was introduced in 2005 under the share incentive plan legislation as a replacement for the share option plan not including the St. Jamess Place plan.
In broad terms, it covers all colleagues and free shares of 5% of salary, up to a limit of 3,000, are awarded to each colleague.
Sharekicker plan This provides colleagues with the opportunity to purchase shares with a proportion of their annual net bonus.
For every two shares purchased a matching share is awarded after three years.
Long term incentive plan This is offered to some of the Groups most senior colleagues.
A full description of the plan is provided on pages 104 and 105 of the Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice.
Executive stock option plan The final award under this plan was in 2000.
Under this plan, options were granted at market value to certain colleagues.
The options vested upon satisfaction of a performance measure over a three year period.
Options are exercisable from the date the measure is satisfied until the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
During 2006 no modifications were made to share-based payment arrangements and none were settled or cancelled.
The table below summarises the share-based payment awards granted in 2006 and 2005: Sharesave Share Free Sharekicker Long term b plan option plan shares plan incentive plan Awards in 2006 Date of grant 21 September 2 March 8 August 23 March 30 March c d Number granted 9,669,771 495,885 7,370,115 4,707,159 1,915,822 Awards in 2005 Date of grant 23 September 3 March 10 August 23 March 30 March c d Number granted 10,381,241 476,401 7,352,056 4,989,559 1,892,966 Contractual life 3.5, 5.5 and 5 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 7.5 years Vesting conditions 3.25, 5.25 and 7.25 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years a vesting period service service service service and achievement of TSR target a Although the savings periods are three, five and seven years the vesting periods are slightly longer since savings do not commence until December each year.
b The awards relate to the St. Jamess Place plan.
c These are the number of deferred shares purchased.
d The 2005 award includes 89,696 shares that were not awarded until 2 September 2005.
The 2006 award includes 217,248 shares that were not awarded until 25 August 2006.
Numbers of awards granted are based on 100% of share grants.
143 Notes to the Accounts continued 8.
Share-based Payments continued Movements in options Movements in options granted under the various equity participation plans mentioned above are as follows: Sharesave plan 2006 2005 Number Weighted Number Weighted of options average of options average exercise exercise price price Outstanding at 1 January 46,576,267 5.86 50,305,553 5.44 Granted during the year 9,669,771 7.93 10,381,241 6.91 Exercised during the year 4,877,672 5.62 10,648,034 4.93 Forfeited during the year 2,536,970 6.13 3,308,241 5.46 Expired during the year 270,405 5.79 154,252 5.65 Outstanding at 31 December 48,560,991 6.29 46,576,267 5.86 Exercisable at 31 December 2,067,132 5.70 1,883,551 5.11 Share option plans 2006 2005 Number Weighted Number Weighted of options average of options average exercise exercise price price Outstanding at 1 January 63,355,372 6.92 87,725,000 7.02 Granted during the year 495,885 9.99 476,401 8.32 Exercised during the year 25,667,956 6.68 19,653,591 7.38 Forfeited during the year 2,322,722 7.05 5,192,438 6.94 Outstanding at 31 December 35,860,579 7.13 63,355,372 6.92 Exercisable at 31 December 6,888,530 6.85 5,570,779 7.48 Executive stock option plan 2006 2005 Number Weighted Number Weighted of options average of options average exercise exercise price price Outstanding at 1 January 2,042,488 5.78 3,797,079 5.58 Exercised during the year 790,581 5.24 1,754,591 5.36 Outstanding and exercisable at 31 December 1,251,907 6.11 2,042,488 5.78 For the sharesave plan, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for sh are options exercised during the year was 991.0 pence.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2006 had exercise prices in the range of 410.0 pence to 792.8 pence and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.0 years.
For the share option plans, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 988.6 pence.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2006 had exercise prices in the range of 654.0 pence to 999.0 pence and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.9 years.
For the executive stock option plan, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised in the year was 991.1 pence.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2006 had exercise prices in the range of 535.3 pence to 712.5 pence and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.9 years.
144 Notes to the Accounts continued 8.
Share-based Payments continued Financial assumptions underlying the calculation of fair value The fair value expense has been based on the fair value of the instruments granted, as calculated using appropriate pricing models.
The table below shows the assumptions and models used to calculate the grant date fair value of awards in 2005 and 2006: Sharesave Share option Free Sharekicker Long term b plan plan shares plan incentive plan Awards in 2006 Fair value pence 299 167 974 451 554 Share price pence 1,057.0 999.0 974.0 1,001.5 959.0 Exercise price pence 793.0 999.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 a Expected volatility % p. a.
4.0 3.8 N A 4.0 N A Risk-free interest rate 4.2 4.9 N A N A N A c Pricing model BlackBinomial BlackMonte Carlo Scholes Lattice Scholes Simulation a Expected volatility is based on an analysis of both the Groups historical volatility over the twelve months preceding the date of each award and the volatility implied by the price of traded options as at the date of each award.
c As no performance conditions attach to these awards and dividends are reinvested, the fair value is the same as the face value of the awards.
d Dividends payable on the matching shares during the vesting period are not awarded to the recipient.
e Dividends payable on the shares during the vesting period are reinvested and so no dividend yield assumption is required.
Early exercise assumptions The following allowance has been made for the impact of early exercise once options have vested: Sharesave plan As the length of the exercise window is only six months all option holders are assumed to exercise halfway through the exercise window.
St. James's Place plan It is assumed that half of the option holders will exercise their options each year if the share price is at least 15% above the exercise price.
Allowance for performance conditions The long term incentive plan includes a market based performance condition based on the Groups total shareholder return relative to an index of comparator companies.
The impact of this performance condition has been modelled using Monte Carlo Simulation techniques, which involves running several thousands of simulations of future share price movements for both the Group and the comparator index.
For the purpose of these simulations it is assumed that the share price of the Group and the comparator index are 60% correlated 2005 award 70% and that the comparator index has volatility of 15% p. a. for the 2006 award 2005 award 20% p. a..
The performance condition is based on the Groups performance relative to the comparator index over a three year period commencing on 1 January each year.
The fair value calculations for the awards that were made in 2006 and 2005 therefore include an allowance for the actual performance of the Groups share price relative to the index over the period between 1 January and the award date.
Charge to income statement 2006 2005 m m Expense arising from share-based payment transactions Equity settled 95 82 Cash settled 6 1 Total 101 83 Closing balance of liability for cash settled share-based payment transactions 5 1 Included within the charge for the year is 8m 2005 3m in respect of share-based arrangements within St. Jamess Place for options held on the shares of that company.
In relation to the Groups share schemes, National Insurance and income tax costs of 36m 2005 22m are borne by the Group and are not included in the above table.
145 Notes to the Accounts continued 9.
Taxation 2006 2005 m m Current tax Corporation tax charge at 30% 978 876 Relief for overseas taxation 73 36 Overseas taxation 206 161 1,111 1,001 Deferred tax Note 30 661 545 Total income tax on profit 1,772 1,546 The above tax expense is made up as follows: Tax on policyholder returns 220 200 Tax on shareholder returns 1,552 1,346 The tax assessed for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 30%.
The differences are explained below: 2006 2005 m m Profit before taxation 5,706 4,808 Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 2005 30% 1,712 1,442 Effects of: Expenses not deductible Income not chargeable for tax purposes 9 20 Net effect of differing tax rates overseas 16 51 Book gains covered by capital losses indexation 109 56 Policyholder tax differing tax rates for life assurance business 154 253 Impairment on investment securities 23 12 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 7 34 Other 26 Total income tax on profit 1,772 1,546 Current tax credit charge recognised directly in equity Relating to share plans 24 Relating to available for sale investments 10 8 34 8 Deferred tax charge credit recognised directly in equity Relating to share plans 62 Relating to available for sale investments 20 3 Relating to cash flow hedges 125 17 Relating to post employment benefit obligations 56 72 139 58 146 Notes to the Accounts continued 10.
Earnings per ordinary share Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share are based upon Group profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of 3,820m 2005 3,194m which is calculated as follows: 2006 2005 m m Profit attributable to parent company shareholders 3,879 3,230 Profit attributable to preference shareholders 59 36 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 3,820 3,194 Profit of disposal group held for sale attributable to ordinary shareholders 3 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders for continuing operations 3,817 3,194 To calculate basic earnings per ordinary share the weighted average number of 25p ordinary shares is used and for diluted earnings per ordinary share the weighted average number of actual and potential 25p ordinary shares is used.
Details of these are given below: 2006 2005 Number Number million million Actual weighted average number of shares in issue 3,796 3,888 Adjustment for weighted average number of shares on which options have been granted but not yet exercised 42 39 Potential weighted average number of shares in issue 3,838 3,927 The basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share are given below: 2006 2005 pence pence Basic earnings per ordinary share Continuing operations 100.5 82.2 Disposal group 0.1 Total 100.6 82.2 Diluted earnings per ordinary share Continuing operations 99.4 81.3 Disposal group 0.1 Total 99.5 81.3 11.
Financial Instruments Held for Trading Financial assets and liabilities held for trading other than derivatives are as follows: 2006 2005 m m Financial assets held for trading Debt securities 34,884 29,352 Loans and advances to banks 11,870 9,271 Loans and advances to customers 2,379 3,135 Other assets 6 8 Total 49,139 41,766 Financial liabilities held for trading Debt securities in issue 376 406 Deposits by banks 10,014 2,875 Customer accounts 11,551 21,509 Other liabilities 393 217 Total 22,334 25,007 147 Notes to the Accounts continued 12.
Disposal group The assets 1,388m and liabilities 909m of the disposal group comprise those of the Mother Topco Limited group of companies.
Mother Topco Limited, a subsidiary undertaking in which the Group had a 58.3% equity interest at 31 December 2006, is the vehicle established to effect the purchase of McCarthy & Stone plc, a UK provider of retirement homes.
The assets and liabilities were acquired with a view for subsequent disposal.
It is highly probable that this disposal will occur within twelve months of the acquisition date and, in accordance with IFRS 5, 'Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued assets', the assets and liabilities are classified as a disposal group.
Derivatives The Groups trading derivative transactions are either customer driven and generally matched or are carried out for proprietary purposes within limits approved by the Board.
Where a derivative held for economic hedging purposes does not qualify for hedge accounting, it is classified below as held for trading.
Derivatives continued The Group uses interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative instruments to hedge and reduce the interest rate and currency exposures that are inherent in any banking business.
The hedge accounting strategy adopted by the Group is to utilise a combination of the macro cash flow, micro fair value and net investment hedge approaches.
The Group has entered into derivative contracts for hedging as noted below.
The notional principal amounts represent the value of the contract to which the derivative relates and are provided to assist the comparison with the financial instrument values on the balance sheet.
Group 2006 2005 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value principal principal amount Asset Liability amount Asset Liability m m m m m m Derivatives held for hedging Derivatives designated as fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 39,367 501 441 32,155 1,106 432 Forward foreign exchange 82 7 1,244 3 Cross currency swaps 47,756 246 2,240 57,582 1,448 944 Options 472 4 839 5 87,677 747 2,692 91,820 2,554 1,384 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps 199,633 1,643 1,121 140,366 1,480 1,197 Forward rate agreements 68,974 20 9 43,070 27 3 Cross currency swaps 31,782 14 605 22,439 299 9 Futures 41,016 45 11 36,895 11 17 341,405 1,722 1,746 242,770 1,817 1,226 Total derivatives held for hedging 429,082 2,469 4,438 334,590 4,371 2,610 The Company has derivatives designated as fair value hedges.
These comprise cross currency swaps with a notional principal of 5,022m 2005 1,353m, an asset fair value of 1m 2005 44m and a liability fair value of 55m 2005 nil, interest rate swaps with a notional principal of 245m 2005 nil and liability fair value of 1m 2005 nil, and forward foreign exchange contracts with a notional principal of 7m 2005 nil and fair value of nil 2005 nil.
149 Notes to the Accounts continued 14.
Loans and Advances to Customers 2006 2005 m m Gross loans and advances to customers 379,897 346,706 Impairment losses on loans and advances Note 15 3,089 2,938 Net loans and advances to customers 376,808 343,768 The Groups lending exposure before impairment provisions and before taking account of collateral is analysed below.
2006 2005 m m Agriculture, forestry and fishing 1,402 1,316 Energy 2,275 1,800 Manufacturing industry 5,797 6,351 Construction and property 40,537 36,913 Hotels, restaurants and wholesale and retail trade 12,951 12,601 Transport, storage and communication 7,412 4,873 Financial 6,555 10,815 Other services 19,747 19,369 Individuals Home mortgages 234,582 213,842 Other personal lending 22,732 23,463 Overseas residents 25,907 15,363 379,897 346,706 Loans and advances to customers include advances that are securitised of 72,730m 2005 53,386m the majority of which have been sold by subsidiary companies to bankruptcy remote special purpose vehicles, funded by the issue of commercial paper on terms whereby some of the risks and rewards of the portfolio are retained by the subsidiary.
Accordingly, all these advances are retained on the Groups balance sheet with the commercial paper included within debt securities in issue Note 33.
Included in securitised loans is an amount of 6,629m 2005 nil relating to the securitisation of residential mortgages using a credit default swap.
Loans and advances to customers include finance leases analysed as follows: 2006 2005 m m Gross investment in finance receivables: Within one year 2,993 2,962 Between one and five years 4,719 4,570 More than five years 4,452 3,605 12,164 11,137 Less: unearned finance income 3,213 2,675 Present value of minimum lease payments 8,951 8,462 Analysed as: Within one year 2,477 2,417 Between one and five years 3,531 3,440 More than five years 2,943 2,605 Finance lease receivables 8,951 8,462 At 31 December 2006 total unguaranteed residual values accrued to the benefit of the Group amounted to 47m 2005 90m.
At 31 December 2006 total accumulated allowance for uncollectable minimum lease payments receivable amounted to 31m 2005 28m.
150 Notes to the Accounts continued 15.
Impairment Losses on Loans and Advances 2006 2005 m m At 1 January 2,938 2,536 New impairment provisions less releases 1,819 1,665 Amounts written off 1,485 1,191 Acquisitions 7 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 65 Discount unwind on impaired loans and advances to customers 99 89 Foreign exchange translation 19 10 At 31 December 3,089 2,938 New impairment provisions less releases 1,819 1,665 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 77 66 Net charge to income statement 1,742 1,599 16.
Investment Securities Group 2006 At Available Loans and Total fair value for sale receivables through the income statement m m m m Listed Debt securities 23,991 26,821 50,812 Equity shares 43,573 51 43,624 Total listed 67,564 26,872 94,436 Unlisted Debt securities 1,749 15,772 493 18,014 Equity shares 2,371 2,210 4,581 Total unlisted 4,120 17,982 493 22,595 Total 71,684 44,854 493 117,031 Comprising: Debt securities 25,740 42,593 493 68,826 Equity shares 45,944 2,261 48,205 151 Notes to the Accounts continued 16.
Investment Securities continued Group 2005 At Available Loans and Total fair value for sale receivables through the income statement m m m m Listed Debt securities 25,641 22,088 47,729 Equity shares 34,144 36 34,180 Total listed 59,785 22,124 81,909 Unlisted Debt securities 1,499 19,112 788 21,399 Equity shares 335 691 1,026 Total unlisted 1,834 19,803 788 22,425 Total 61,619 41,927 788 104,334 Comprising: Debt securities 27,140 41,200 788 69,128 Equity shares 34,479 727 35,206 Investment securities held at fair value through the income statement and as available for sale are recorded at fair value.
The fair value movement during the year was 3,679m 2005 9,062m and 135m 2005 224m respectively.
Within the fair value movement for available for sale is a loss of 136m 2005 gain of 34m relating to assets subject to fair value hedging.
Investment securities designated as loans and receivables are recorded at amortised cost.
In keeping with normal market practice, the Group enters into securities lending transactions and repurchase agreements, whereby cash and securities are temporarily received or transferred as collateral.
Debt securities with a value of 2,989m 2005 1,827m were subject to agreement to repurchase, where the transferee obtains the right to pledge or sell the asset they receive.
Debt securities also include securities pledged as collateral as part of securities lending transactions amounting to 11,818m 2005 11,787m.
Securities held as collateral under reverse repurchase agreements amounted to 33,773m 2005 46,918m.
These are not recognised as assets and are therefore not included above.
Of this amount the Group had resold or repledged 25,309m 2005 38,466m as collateral for its own transactions.
Debt securities include asset backed securities of 19,017m 2005 19,497m which are held in bankruptcy remote special purpose vehicles, funded by the issue of commercial paper on terms whereby some of the rewards and risks of the portfolio have been retained by the Group.
The commercial paper is included within debt securities in issue Note 33.
Investment securities held by the Company are designated as available for sale and comprise 4m 2005 13m unlisted equity shares and 36m 2005 36m of listed debt securities.
The fair value at 31 December 2006 is 40m 2005 49m and the fair value movement during the year was nil.
152 Notes to the Accounts continued 17.
Interests in Jointly Controlled Entities and Associated Undertakings Interests in jointly controlled entities Acquired Equity Share of Goodwill Book book adjustments net value value assets m m m m m At 1 January 2006 337 150 187 98 285 Acquisitions and subscriptions of capital 178 178 3 181 Transfer from investment securities 113 113 113 Disposals 21 1 20 20 Reclassification of Lex on acquisition as a subsidiary Note 19 87 11 98 96 194 Equity accounting adjustments 55 55 55 At 31 December 2006 520 105 415 5 420 The Groups unrecognised share of losses for the year was 36m 2005 22m.
For entities making losses, subsequent profits earned are not recognised until previously unrecognised losses are extinguished.
The Group's unrecognised share of losses net of unrecognised profits on a cumulative basis is 82m 2005 53m.
The following amounts are included in the Groups share of jointly controlled entities noted above.
Profit Current Non-current Current Non-current Equity after tax assets assets liabilities liabilities m m m m m m 2006 112 3,604 5,290 4,462 4,012 420 2005 29 1,918 4,298 2,107 3,824 285 Interests in associated undertakings Acquired Equity Share of Goodwill Book book adjustments net value value assets m m m m m At 1 January 2006 128 46 174 174 Acquisitions and subscriptions of capital 21 21 21 Disposals 9 9 9 Amounts written off 7 7 7 Equity accounting adjustments 2 2 2 At 31 December 2006 133 48 181 181 The Groups unrecognised share of losses for the year was nil 2005 1m.
The Group's unrecognised share of losses net of unrecognised profits on a cumulative basis is nil 2005 nil.
The following amounts are included in the Groups share of associated undertakings noted above.
Profit Current Non-current Current Non-current Equity after tax assets assets liabilities liabilities m m m m m m 2006 14 1,938 1,346 2,272 831 181 2005 10 1,291 1,168 1,257 1,028 174 153 Notes to the Accounts continued 17.
Interests in Jointly Controlled Entities and Associated Undertakings continued The Group's main jointly controlled entities and associated undertaking in operation at 31 December 2006 are as follows: Nature of Issued Groups Statutory Principal business share interest accounts area of capital made up to operations Jointly controlled entities AA Personal Finance Limited Finance ordinary 3,000,002 50% December 2006 UK First Alternative Holdings Ltd Insurance ordinary 1,000,000 75% December 2006 UK preference 100,000,000 100% esure Holdings Ltd Insurance ordinary 3,330,000 70% December 2006 UK preference 175,170,000 100% Associated undertakings Rightmove plc Property website ordinary 126,761,800 22% December 2006 UK a Sainsburys Bank plc Banking ordinary 140,000,000 45% March 2006 UK loan 100,000,000 45% a The accounts of Sainsburys Bank plc have been equity accounted in the Groups consolidated accounts on the basis of accounts prepared for the year to 31 December 2006.
On 8 February 2007 the Group's interest increased to 50% and Sainsbury's Bank plc became a jointly controlled entity.
All the interests in jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings are incorporated in the UK and are held by subsidiary undertakings.
Rightmove plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Group's interest had a market valuation of 109m at 31 December 2006.
All other interests are unlisted.
Interests in Group Undertakings Interests in Group undertakings comprise investments in ordinary shares and capital contributions carried at cost less impairment provisions and other borrowed funds loaned to subsidiaries.
Ordinary Capital Loans Total shares contributions m m m m At cost at 1 January 2006 9,918 5,833 15,751 Subscriptions of capital 1,044 1,033 2,077 Net advances 846 846 At cost at 31 December 2006 10,962 1,033 6,679 18,674 The main subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2006 are as follows: Companys interest Principal business Country of in ordinary incorporation share capital and voting rights a The Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland 100% Banking, financial and related services UK and subsidiaries, including HBOS Treasury Services plc 100% Banking UK Bank of Scotland Ireland Ltd 100% Banking Ireland b CAPITAL BANK plc 100% Banking and personal finance UK HBOS Australia Pty Ltd and subsidiaries, including Bank of Western Australia Ltd 100% Banking Australia a Halifax plc 100% Banking UK Halifax Share Dealing Ltd 100% Execution only stockbroking UK a HBOS Insurance & Investment Group Ltd 100% Investment holding UK and subsidiaries, including Halifax General Insurance Services Ltd 100% General insurance brokerage UK St. Andrews Insurance plc 100% General insurance UK Clerical Medical Investment Group Ltd 100% Life assurance UK Halifax Life Ltd 100% Life assurance UK Halifax Investment Fund Managers Ltd 100% OEIC management UK Insight Investment Management Ltd 100% Investment management UK Invista Real Estate Investment Management Holdings plc 55% Real estate fund management UK St. Jamess Place plc 60% Financial services UK a HBOS plc holds 100% of the issued preference share capital.
b The Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland holds 100% of the issued preference share capital.
154 Notes to the Accounts continued 19.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Group 2006 2005 m m Goodwill 1,889 1,666 Other intangibles 800 782 2,689 2,448 Goodwill 2006 2005 m m At 1 January 1,666 1,671 Exchange translation 14 1 Acquired through business combinations 200 4 Additions 7 Transfer from jointly controlled entities Note 17 96 Disposals 4 7 Impairment 55 At 31 December 1,889 1,666 Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill has arisen on the acquisition of companies and other businesses.
It is subject to a six monthly impairment review by comparing the value in use with the carrying value.
When this indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable it is written down through the income statement.
The goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the acquisitions concerned.
In most cases, the cash-generating units represent the actual company or business acquired.
The recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit is based upon value in use calculations.
The calculations use cash flow projections based upon the five year business plan with cash flows thereafter being extrapolated using growth rates in the range of 2.25% to 2.50% reflecting the long term nature of the businesses concerned and the long term trend in growth rate of the respective economy.
The pre-tax discount rates used in discounting projected cash flows lie in the range of 10% to 12.2% reflecting the perceived risk within those businesses.
The impairment loss of 55m 2005 nil principally relates to the full write down of the goodwill held in respect of a specialist leasing company following an impairment review.
Goodwill can be analysed on a divisional basis as follows: 2006 2005 m m Retail 443 426 Corporate 280 42 Insurance & Investment 835 853 International 292 306 Treasury & Asset Management 39 39 Total 1,889 1,666 155 Notes to the Accounts continued 19.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued Other intangible assets 2006 2005 Purchased Software Total Purchased Software Total value of and other value of and other in-force intangible in-force intangible investment assets investment assets contracts contracts m m m m m m Cost deemed cost At 1 January 396 902 1,298 394 741 1,135 Exchange translation 2 2 2 2 Acquired through business combination 6 6 2 20 22 Additions 197 197 158 158 Disposals 34 34 19 19 At 31 December 396 1,069 1,465 396 902 1,298 Amortisation At 1 January 21 495 516 379 379 Exchange translation 1 1 1 1 Charge for the year 24 137 161 21 128 149 Disposals 11 11 13 13 At 31 December 45 620 665 21 495 516 Carrying value At 31 December 351 449 800 375 407 782 The Company has other intangible assets acquired during the year at cost of 10m 2005 nil less amortisation of 2m 2005 nil charged for the year.
Property and Equipment 2006 2005 Property Equipment Total Property Equipment Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 1,533 1,567 3,100 1,534 1,433 2,967 Exchange translation 3 6 9 2 6 8 Acquired through business combination 15 5 20 Additions 134 146 280 72 235 307 Disposals 38 90 128 37 107 144 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 2 9 11 Transfer from to investment property Note 21 23 23 38 38 At 31 December 1,662 1,613 3,275 1,533 1,567 3,100 Depreciation At 1 January 550 1,017 1,567 520 911 1,431 Exchange translation 5 5 3 3 Charge for the year 53 166 219 53 173 226 Disposals 12 60 72 23 70 93 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 1 6 7 At 31 December 590 1,112 1,702 550 1,017 1,567 Carrying value At 31 December 1,072 501 1,573 983 550 1,533 Included within Group property and equipment are assets, including properties that will be classified as investment properties upon completion, that are in the course of construction amounting to 353m 2005 209m which are not depreciated until the assets are brought into use.
156 Notes to the Accounts continued 21.
Investment Properties 2006 2005 m m At 1 January 3,942 3,571 Additions 16 Disposals 2 15 Net movement in properties held by policyholder funds 655 117 Fair value movement 438 449 Transfer to from property and equipment Note 20 23 38 At 31 December 5,010 3,942 Investment properties are carried at their fair value as determined by independent qualified surveyors having recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values were determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties.
Rental income and expenses in respect of the above properties amounted to 249m and 25m respectively 2005 237m and 19m respectively.
Operating Lease Assets Assets leased to customers include the following amounts in respect of operating lease assets: 2006 2005 Cost Depreciation Carrying Cost Depreciation Carrying value value m m m m m m At 1 January 4,370 1,255 3,115 3,997 967 3,030 Exchange translation 88 34 54 67 2 65 Acquired through business combination 1,428 1,428 Additions 1,804 1,804 1,185 1,185 Disposals 1,350 550 800 879 275 604 Charge for the year 812 812 561 561 At 31 December 6,164 1,483 4,681 4,370 1,255 3,115 Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due to be received in the following periods: 2006 2005 m m Not later than one year 1,264 689 Later than one year and not later than five years 1,578 330 Later than five years 802 965 3,644 1,984 157 Notes to the Accounts continued 23.
Deferred Costs 2006 2005 m m Deferred acquisition costs 278 202 Deferred origination costs 575 443 853 645 24.
Value of In-Force Long Term Assurance Business 2006 2005 m m At 1 January 2,847 2,172 Acquisitions 272 Disposals 16 Expected changes in existing business: Unwind of discount rate 227 167 Current year release to the income statement 479 312 Effect of current year experience 8 131 New business 558 406 Changes in assumptions 32 2 Exchange translation 9 9 At 31 December 3,104 2,847 Assumptions The key assumptions used in the measurement of the value of in-force long term assurance business relating to insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature DPF are determined by the Board of Directors.
The economic assumptions that have the greatest effect on the calculation of the value of in-force long term assurance business are set out below.
These assumptions require the application of material judgement and are chosen to represent a long term view of the likely economic environment.
The experience assumptions set out in Note 26 also have a significant effect on the cash flow projections.
The selection of these assumptions also requires the application of material judgement and is made with reference to historic trends, taking into account the analysis of actual versus expected experience as well as industry data.
Additional information on the long term assurance business risk is set out on pages 87 to 89 of the Risk Management report.
Risk discount rate The risk discount rate, the rate used to calculate the present value of the future projected cash flows, is based on the long term view of the risk free rate of return.
As a long term view, it necessarily involves the application of judgement.
This is increased to reflect the uncertainty associated with the projected cash flows.
This increase can be broken down into two principal components, being the investment risk component and the insurance risk component.
The investment risk component represents an allowance for uncertainty as to the level of future margins that will actually be achieved by the Groups investments.
The level of this component is chosen so as to avoid capitalising any investment risk premiums over the long term view of the risk free rate of return.
The insurance risk component represents an additional allowance in the risk discount rate to reflect the potential volatility of, and uncertainty around, the future level of insurance risk inherent in the contracts.
The breakdown of the risk discount rate is shown in the table below: 2006 2005 % % Long term view of risk free rate of return 5.0 5.0 Investment risk component 1.0 1.0 Insurance risk component 2.0 2.0 Total 8.0 8.0 In isolation of any other assumption changes, an increase in the risk discount rate would result in a decrease in the value of in-force long term assurance business reducing profits and vice versa.
158 Notes to the Accounts continued 24.
Value of In-Force Long Term Assurance Business continued Investment return Assumptions are set for each individual asset class based on the long term view of expected returns, and weighted to produce an investment return assumption for each particular class of business.
The weighting is based on the long term asset allocation strategy for each class of business.
The table below sets out the long term view of the expected returns for each asset class: 2006 2005 % % Return on fixed interest securities 5.0 - 5.5 5.0 - 5.5 Return on equities 7.5 7.5 In isolation, an increase in the investment return assumption would lead to an increase in profits, and vice versa.
Expenses Operating expense assumptions reflect the projected costs of maintaining and servicing in-force insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF and associated overhead expenses.
The current level of expenses is taken as an appropriate expense base.
The current expenses are analysed having regard to the volume and type of business in force to derive per contract expense assumptions.
These per policy expense assumptions are assumed to increase over the course of the projections in line with an assumed expense inflation rate of 3% 2005 3%.
Changes in assumptions There were no significant changes in the economic assumptions during 2006 used in the derivation of the value of in-force long term assurance business.
However, there were a number of changes to the underlying experience assumptions used to estimate the cash flows from the long term assurance business.
These are discussed further in Note 26.
Sensitivities The tables below indicate the stand alone impact of changes to certain key variables on long term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF only: 2006 Change in Impact on profit Impact on variable before tax shareholders equity m m Interest rates increase into perpetuity 100bps 178 97 Equity property market values fall and thereafter increase based on the long term view of the risk free rate -10% 126 77 Maintenance expenses fall and thereafter increase by the estimated expense inflation rate -10% 60 44 Mortality morbidity rates decrease across all policy types and age groups -5% 8 4 Lapse and surrender rates decrease across all policy types and cohorts over the duration of their lives excluding paid-up policies -10% 105 64 2005 Change in Impact on profit Impact on variable before tax shareholders equity m m Interest rates increase into perpetuity 100bps 119 79 Equity property market values fall and thereafter increase based on the long term view of the risk free rate -10% 99 60 Maintenance expenses fall and thereafter increase by the estimated expense inflation rate -10% 63 43 Mortality morbidity rates decrease across all policy types and age groups -5% 4 3 Lapse and surrender rates decrease across all policy types and cohorts over the duration of their lives excluding paid-up policies -10% 126 79 Although the tables above demonstrate the impact of individual variable changes, in practice due to the correlation between certain variables a change in one variable would normally be expected to have an impact on other assumptions.
It should also be noted that in some instances these sensitivities are non-linear.
159 Notes to the Accounts continued 25.
Insurance Contract Liabilities 2006 2005 Gross Reinsurance Net of Gross Reinsurance Net of liabilities assets reinsurance liabilities assets reinsurance Note 25 Note 25 m m m m m m Long term insurance contract liabilities Insurance contracts within the with-profit fund 5,934 5,934 6,244 6,244 Insurance contracts within the non-profit funds 18,179 80 18,099 14,904 92 14,812 24,113 80 24,033 21,148 92 21,056 General insurance contract liabilities Provision for unearned premiums 615 9 606 582 9 573 Claims provisions including claims incurred but not reported IBNR 249 1 248 240 3 237 864 10 854 822 12 810 Total insurance contract liabilities 24,977 90 24,887 21,970 104 21,866 The change in insurance contract liabilities net of reinsurance is analysed as follows: 2006 2005 m m At 1 January 21,866 17,174 Acquisitions 1,326 Changes in assumptions 116 135 Additional insurance liabilities arising 3,178 3,213 Exchange translation 41 18 At 31 December 24,887 21,866 160 Notes to the Accounts continued 26.
Insurance Contract Liabilities continued Long Term Insurance Contract Liabilities The Group principally writes the following long term contracts which contain insurance risk: Life assurance - The policyholder is insured against death or permanent disability usually for predetermined amounts principally mortality and disability risk.
Annuity products - The policyholder is entitled to payments for the duration of their life and is therefore insured for living longer than expected principally longevity and market risk.
With-profit business - The primary purpose of these products is to provide a long term smoothed investment vehicle to the policyholder, protecting them against short term market fluctuations.
The policyholder is also usually insured against death and the policy may carry an annuity option at maturity principally market risk.
Unit-linked business - The primary purpose of these products is to provide an investment vehicle but where the policyholder is also insured against death principally market risk.
Additional information on the risk associated with the long term assurance business is set out on pages 87 to 89 of the Risk Management report.
The table below sets out the extent of the above exposures based on the carrying value of the liabilities: 2006 2005 Insurance Reinsurers Net Insurance Reinsurers Net contract share of insurance contract share of insurance liabilities contract contract liabilities contract contract liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m m m Life assurance 684 684 508 508 Annuity products 2,061 2,061 2,026 2,026 With-profit 5,934 5,934 6,244 6,244 Unit-linked 15,430 80 15,350 12,313 91 12,222 Other 4 4 57 1 56 Total 24,113 80 24,033 21,148 92 21,056 Guarantees and options The products with the most significant guarantees and options are: certain with-profit bonds which allow surrenders at specified dates without market value adjustments being applied and withdrawals to be taken without penalty: certain contracts which provide guaranteed minimum levels of return on policyholder contributions made to the contract: and certain pension contracts containing an option that allows the policyholder to take an annuity benefit at any time between their 60th and 75th birthday on annuity rates that were guaranteed at the outset of the contract.
There are no other material guarantees and options within the long term assurance business other than those discussed above.
For contracts where there are guarantees and options the most significant factor in determining the cost of the guarantees and options other than economic conditions in which the option or guarantee has value is the actual take up rate of options.
The most significant factor in determining take up rates is customer behaviour which is influenced by a number of factors including the value of the contract, and the financial circumstances of the individuals.
The financial impact is dependent on the value of corresponding investments, interest rates and longevity at the time of the claim.
In order to measure the risk of these guarantees the Group makes use of statistical modelling techniques where appropriate to determine the possible and most likely range of outcomes.
To help mitigate the risks the Group makes use of matching techniques in order to hedge part of the expected cash flows arising under the guarantees in these contracts with financial instruments.
Experience and valuation rates of interest assumptions The assumptions used in the measurement of insurance liabilities are determined by the board of directors.
Material judgement is required in the choice of assumptions relating to insurance contracts.
The assumptions that have the greatest effect on the measurement of the insurance contract liabilities are set out by type of business below.
161 Notes to the Accounts continued 26.
Insurance Contract Liabilities continued Mortality and longevity rates The process used to determine the Groups mortality and longevity assumptions starts with an internal investigation of the Groups actual mortality experience over the last five years.
This investigation is updated regularly.
The results of this investigation are considered in the context of a number of factors including the credibility of the results which will be affected by the volume of data available, any exceptional events that have occurred during the period being considered, any known or expected trends in underlying data and relevant published market data.
The rates derived from the Groups experience are adjusted in the light of the factors mentioned above to derive a set of best estimate rates.
No deliberate margins for prudence are introduced as part of this process.
These best estimate assumptions will be used in the projection of 'best estimate' cash flows, such as the measurement of the value of in-force long term assurance business.
For insurance contracts within the non-profit funds, the liabilities are assessed on a prudent basis and hence the rates used need to include a margin for adverse deviation that will increase liabilities and provide some protection from the risk that actual experience is worse than the best estimate assumptions.
For insurance contracts within the with-profit fund, the liabilities are required to be determined using the realistic or best estimate assumptions.
The mortality tables used are as follows: 2006 2005 Non-profit policies Pension annuities Males 95% PM92 mc 95% PM92 mc Females 80% PFA92 75%mc 80% PFA92 75%mc Term assurances Males 43% - 145% TM92 43% - 145% TM92 Females 55% - 160% TF92 55% - 160% TF92 Unit-linked policies Life assurance and pensions 60% - 150% AM92 AF92 60% - 150% AM92 AF92 With-profit policies Life assurance and pensions 60% - 100% AM92 AF92 60% - 100% AM92 AF92 For life assurance policies, increased mortality rates would lead to a larger number of claims and claims occurring sooner than anticipated, increasing the expenditure and reducing profits.
For annuity contracts, the opposite is true.
Lapse and surrender rates persistency A lapse occurs when the termination of a contract results from the non-payment of premiums due under that contract.
A surrender occurs when a policyholder decides to voluntarily terminate their contract.
Paid-up and partial surrender are additional forms of lapse and surrender.
The process used to determine contract lapse and surrender rates is similar to that used to determine mortality and longevity rates.
The previous experience of the Group from 2003 to 2005 is analysed using statistical techniques.
As the experience can vary considerably between different product types and for contracts which have been in force for different periods, the internal analysis breaks the data down into broadly homogeneous groups for the purposes of this analysis.
This analysis is updated regularly.
The most recent experience is considered along with the results of previous analyses in order to determine a best estimate view of what persistency experience will be in the future.
In determining this best estimate view, a number of factors are considered including the credibility of the results which will be affected by the volume of data available, any exceptional events that have occurred during the period being considered, any known or expected trends in underlying data and relevant published market data.
These best estimate assumptions will be used in the projection of best estimate cash flows, such as the measurement of the value of in-force long term assurance business.
For insurance contracts within the non-profit funds the liabilities are calculated assuming a prudent worst case scenario.
That is, that no lapses are assumed to occur unless doing so would increase the liabilities.
For insurance contracts within the withprofit fund, the liabilities are required to be determined using the realistic or best estimate assumptions.
Lapse and surrender rates vary according to both contract type and the length of time a contract has been in force.
No lapse and surrender rates have been presented because it is impractical to summarise the information in a meaningful manner.
The impact of an increase in lapse and surrender rates on contracts without guarantees and options would most likely result in a decrease in profits, as the contracts would no longer be in force to generate cash flows in the future.
However, for certain policies with valuable guarantees and options principally within the with-profit fund, increased lapse and surrender rates may be beneficial to the Group as the policyholder loses the ability to exercise the potentially valuable guarantee or option when their policy terminates.
162 Notes to the Accounts continued 26.
Insurance Contract Liabilities continued Valuation rate of interest The valuation rate of interest is the rate used to discount the projected cash flows on the contracts in order to determine the value of the liabilities as at the reporting date.
For insurance contracts within the non-profit funds, the liabilities are calculated using a prudent valuation rate of interest determined according to specific rules set out by the Financial Services Authority.
These rules specify that the valuation rate of interest should be set by reference to a prudent estimate of the future yield on the assets of the fund with an additional prudent margin being taken to allow for future investment risk.
For insurance contracts within the with-profit fund, the liabilities are calculated using a realistic or market consistent valuation rate of interest based on the prevailing economic conditions at the time of the liability assessment without further adjustment.
The valuation rates of interest used are as follows: 2006 2005 Non-profit policies Pension annuities 4.4% - 4.8% 4.0% Term assurances 3.0% - 3.75% 2.6% - 3.5% Unit-linked policies Life assurance 3.0% - 3.5% 2.6% - 3.5% Pensions 3.75% - 4.4% 3.25% - 3.5% In isolation an increase in the valuation rate of interest decreases liabilities leading to an increase in profits or vice versa.
Discretionary participating bonus rates The distributions to the insurance and investment contracts with DPF policyholders are determined by the board of directors of subsidiaries based on local regulations and in line with arrangements in individual policy contracts.
For insurance and investment contracts with DPF in the with-profit fund the distributions to policyholders are governed by the funds Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM.
No material changes were made to the distribution policies for insurance and investment contracts with DPF during the year under review.
Changes in experience and valuation rate of interest assumptions There were a number of changes made to assumptions used to calculate the value of policyholder liabilities in both 2006 and 2005.
The most significant changes to the liability valuations, were due to changes in valuation rates of interest which were updated to reflect the prevailing economic conditions at the balance sheet date.
General Insurance Contract Liabilities The insurance businesss general insurance claim provisions including IBNR by policy type are set out in the table below: 2006 2005 Gross claims Reinsurers Net claims Gross claims Reinsurers Net claims provisions share of claims provisions provisions share of claims provisions provisions provisions m m m m m m Repayment insurance 110 110 113 2 111 Household insurance 135 135 123 123 Other insurance 4 1 3 4 1 3 Total 249 1 248 240 3 237 Assumptions For general insurance contracts, claims provisions comprising provisions for claims reported by policyholder and IBNR claims are established to cover the ultimate costs of settling the liabilities in respect of claims that have occurred and are estimated based on known facts and anticipated experience at the balance sheet date.
The provisions are refined as part of a regular ongoing process as claims experience develops, certain claims are settled and further claims are reported.
Outstanding claims provisions are not discounted for the time value of money.
The measurement process primarily includes projection of future claims costs through a combination of actuarial and statistical projection techniques.
In certain cases, where there is a lack of reliable historical data on which to estimate claims development, relevant benchmarks of similar business are used in developing claims estimates.
The principal assumption underlying the estimates is the general insurance businesss past claims development experience.
This includes assumptions in respect of average claims costs, claims handling costs, claims inflation factors, and claim numbers for each accident year.
Judgement is used to assess the extent to which external factors such as judicial decisions and government legislation affect the estimates.
Additional information on the Groups general insurance risk is given on page 89 of the Risk Management report.
163 Notes to the Accounts continued 27.
Investment Contract Liabilities 2006 2005 m m Investment contract liabilities 34,806 26,446 Investment contract liabilities with DPF 8,694 10,691 43,500 37,137 Investment contracts related to collective investment schemes 5,986 5,020 Total investment contract liabilities 49,486 42,157 28.
Unallocated Surplus 2006 2005 m m At 1 January 974 605 Change in the year 569 369 At 31 December 1,543 974 The nature of certain insurance and investment contracts with DPF within the with-profit fund is such that the allocation of the surplus assets between the policyholder and the Group has not been determined at the end of the accounting period.
The unallocated surplus comprises these surplus assets and is deemed to be a liability until allocation to the appropriate party has been determined.
In accordance with the requirements of FRS 27, the best estimate of the Groups share of future bonuses has been recognised as part of the unallocated surplus.
Sensitivities The table below indicates the stand alone impact of changes to certain key variables that have the greatest impact on the Groups with-profit fund.
These are shown with reference to the unallocated surplus and the underlying with-profit liabilities: 2006 Change in Change in Impact on variable liabilities unallocated surplus m m Interest rates increase into perpetuity 100bps 567 105 Equity property market values fall and thereafter increase based on the long term view of the risk free rate -10% 757 201 Lapse and surrender rates decrease across all policy types and cohorts excluding paid-up policies -10% 16 16 2005 Change in Change in Impact on variable liabilities unallocated surplus m m Interest rates increase into perpetuity 100bps 640 150 Equity property market values fall and thereafter increase based on the long term view of the risk free rate -10% 720 230 Lapse and surrender rates decrease across all policy types and cohorts excluding paid-up policies -10% 20 20 Although the tables above demonstrate the impact of individual variable changes, in practice due to the correlation between certain variables a change in one variable would normally be expected to have an impact on other assumptions.
164 Notes to the Accounts continued 29.
Long Term Assurance Business Capital Position Statement The Capital Position Statement sets out the total capital resources relating to the life assurance business of the Group.
The statement shows the shareholders funds in the long term assurance business together with the adjustments required to reconcile these amounts with the amounts determined in accordance with the regulatory reporting framework.
2006 CMIGL UK nonUK life Overseas Total life UK with-profit profit shareholder life business fund funds funds business m m m m m Total shareholders funds 4,119 279 710 4,550 Adjustments onto regulatory basis: Less value of in-force long term assurance business Note 24 2,488 616 3,104 Less purchased value of in-force investment business Note 19 350 1 351 a Add unallocated surplus Note 28 1,543 1,543 Less shareholders share of realistic liabilities 107 107 Deferred taxation 1,102 152 1,254 Other adjustments 728 5 12 745 1,436 1,655 284 233 3,040 Other qualifying capital: Loan capital 962 962 Total capital available 1,436 1,655 678 233 4,002 The Groups long term insurance and investment contract liabilities are allocated as follows: Insurance contract liabilities Note 26 5,934 15,982 2,197 24,113 b Investment contract liabilities Note 27 8,694 31,630 3,176 43,500 Unallocated surplus Note 28 1,543 1,543 a The with-profit fund unallocated surplus is determined on an adjusted realistic basis.
b Excludes investment contract liabilities related to the collective investment schemes.
2005 CMIGL UK nonUK life Overseas Total life UK with-profit profit shareholder life business fund funds funds business m m m m m Total shareholders funds 3,870 180 739 4,429 Adjustments onto regulatory basis: Less value of in-force long term assurance business Note 24 2,238 609 2,847 Less purchased value of in-force investment business Note 19 373 2 375 a Add unallocated surplus Note 28 974 974 Less shareholders share of realistic liabilities 98 98 Deferred taxation 952 136 1,088 Other adjustments 566 4 41 611 876 1,645 184 223 2,560 Other qualifying capital: Loan capital 977 977 c Total capital available 876 1,645 793 223 3,537 The Groups long term insurance and investment contract liabilities are allocated as follows: Insurance contract liabilities Note 26 6,244 12,947 1,957 21,148 b Investment contract liabilities Note 27 10,691 22,709 3,737 37,137 Unallocated surplus Note 28 974 974 a The with-profit fund unallocated surplus is determined on an adjusted realistic basis.
c Total capital available has been restated to include the with-profit fund's total available capital on a 'realistic peak' basis in line with emerging industry practice.
Previously the with-profit fund's total available capital was included on a 'regulatory peak' basis with the difference included as an additional capital requirement.
165 Notes to the Accounts continued 29.
Long Term Assurance Business Capital Position Statement continued The Group has one UK with-profit fund, the Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited CMIGL with-profit fund, which is shown separately in the Capital Position Statement.
The Groups UK non-profit businesses are aggregated as well as the Groups overseas life businesses for the purpose of this statement.
For the Groups UK with-profit fund, available capital and capital requirements are determined under the twin peaks assessment as prescribed by the regulations of the Financial Services Authority FSA.
Under this assessment the available capital is determined by comparing admissible assets with the mathematical reserves determined on the regulatory peak basis.
This is adjusted by the with-profit insurance capital component WPICC to arrive at the available capital position for the purpose of this disclosure.
The capital requirement adjusting for the WPICC consists of two components, namely the resilience capital requirement and the long term insurance capital requirement.
The WPICC is determined under the twin peaks test by comparing the regulatory peak with the realistic peak.
If the latter is more onerous then this gives rise to a WPICC.
At 31 December 2006 and at 31 December 2005 the realistic peak was more onerous.
Accordingly, the available capital of the with-profit fund is adjusted by the WPICC and presented on a 'realistic' basis.
As more fully described in Note 28 the unallocated surplus is determined on an adjusted realistic basis in accordance with FRS 27.
UK shareholders funds, UK non-profit funds and overseas businesses are shown separately in the Capital Position Statement.
There are no formal arrangements, other than those relating to the CMIGL with-profit fund described below, for shareholders funds or the surplus within the individual life funds to be used to support other businesses or life funds within the Group.
However, as described below, subject to certain conditions being met, the available capital within the individual funds is potentially transferable to other parts of the Group.
However, the capital within each fund is generally subject to restrictions as to its availability to meet requirements that arise elsewhere in the Group, including other long term businesses.
In particular, for sections in the Capital Position Statement where aggregate capital amounts have been shown, such as for UK non-profit funds and overseas business, there are no prior arrangements in place to allow the capital to move freely between entities within these sections.
Restrictions to the application of capital Restrictions apply to the transfer of assets from any long term fund.
In particular, at all times, each long term fund must maintain an excess of assets over liabilities.
Transfers of assets from a long term fund can only be made once management are satisfied that they have met the relevant requirements of the fund.
The principal restrictions are: a CMIGL with-pro t fund The unallocated surplus held in the fund can only be applied to meet the requirements of the fund itself or distributed according to the prescribed rules of the fund.
Shareholders are entitled to an amount not exceeding one ninth of the amount distributed to policyholders in the form of bonuses.
Such distributions would also be subject to a tax charge.
The use of capital within the fund is also subject to the terms of the scheme of demutualisation effected in 1996 and the conditions contained in the Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM of the fund.
Capital within the Clerical Medical non-profit fund is available to meet the with-profit funds capital requirements.
There are no other arrangements that provide capital support to the fund.
b UK non-pro t funds Except as above, the capital held in the fund is attributable to the shareholders and, subject to meeting the regulatory requirements of these businesses, this capital is potentially available to meet capital requirements elsewhere in the Group.
Any transfer of the surplus would give rise to a tax charge.
c Overseas life business These include several smaller life companies outside the UK.
In all cases the available capital resources are subject to local regulatory requirements including Germany, Ireland and Australia.
The available capital held in each company is potentially available to meet the capital requirements in other parts of the Group, subject to additional complexity surrounding the transfer of capital from one country to another.
166 Notes to the Accounts continued 29.
Long Term Assurance Business Capital Position Statement continued Target capital For the UK with-profit fund the Group is required to hold sufficient capital to meet FSA requirements, based on the risk capital margin RCM determined in accordance with the FSAs regulatory rules under its realistic capital regime.
The determination of the RCM is based on the impact of specified changes in market prices of the fund assets as well as policyholder behaviour, taking into account the actions management would have taken in the event of the particular adverse changes.
For UK non-profit business, the relevant capital requirement is the long term insurance capital requirement LTICR and resilience capital requirement RCR determined in accordance with FSA regulations.
Under the FSAs Individual Capital Adequacy Standards ICAS framework, each company is required to carry out its own assessment of the capital required to meet its liabilities in all reasonably foreseeable circumstances known as the individual capital assessment ICA.
The ICA takes into account certain business risks not reflected in the FSAs other capital requirements.
Management intends to maintain surplus capital in excess of the various regulatory requirements, including the ICA, in order to absorb changes in both the underlying businesses and the capital requirements over the short term.
At 31 December 2006 the available capital excluding the with-profit fund was 462% 2005 473% of the provisional capital requirements of 555m 2005 562m.
At 31 December 2006 the total available capital including the with-profit fund on a realistic basis was 354% 2005 270% of the provisional capital requirements of 1,131m 2005 1,312m.
Changes in capital The principal factors that resulted in changes to the total available capital during 2006 are set out in the table below: CMIGL UK non UK life Overseas Total life UK with-profit profit shareholder life business fund funds funds business m m m m m At 1 January 2006 876 1,645 793 223 3,537 a Changes in non-investment assumptions 10 5 5 10 b Investment markets and changes in investment assumptions 83 44 11 3 119 c New business 331 27 358 d Other experience 487 192 4 81 756 e Transfers of capital and dividends 100 100 42 42 At 31 December 2006 1,436 1,655 678 233 4,002 a There were no significant changes to the non-investment assumptions during the year.
b Improved market conditions led to an increase in the value of securities resulting in an increase to the total capital available.
c The amount of capital has been reduced by the increase in liabilities and new business strain excess of acquisition costs over margins due to significant volumes of new long term assurance business written since the last balance sheet date.
d This is the effect of current year experience on in-force blocks of business.
e This represents the dividends paid by, or transfers of capital to and from, the funds during the year.
167 Notes to the Accounts continued 30.
Deferred Tax 2006 2005 m m Deferred tax liabilities 3,349 2,759 Deferred tax assets 758 1,008 Net position 2,591 1,751 At 31 December 2006 a deferred tax liability of 214m 2005 115m relating to an investment in a subsidiary has not been recognised because the Company controls whether or not the liability will be incurred and it is satisfied that it will not be incurred in the foreseeable future.
The movement in the net position is as follows: 2006 2005 m m At 1 January 1,751 1,222 Charge to income for the year Note 9 661 545 Charge credit to equity for the year 139 58 Transfer to current tax 37 Acquisitions 60 107 Disposals 55 Other movements 57 10 At 31 December 2,591 1,751 Analysed as follows: Deferred tax liabilities 2006 Capital Available Cash flow Long term Effective Other Total allowances for sale hedges assurance interest investments business rate m m m m m m m At 1 January 2006 928 65 57 1,416 122 171 2,759 Charge to income for the year 112 7 294 9 75 347 Charge credit to equity for the year 20 125 145 Transfers to current tax 4 33 37 Acquisitions 85 85 Other movements 13 28 39 24 At 31 December 2006 1,112 96 182 1,738 131 90 3,349 Deferred tax assets 2006 Employee Provisions Other Total benefits m m m m At 1 January 2006 541 294 173 1,008 Charge to income for the year 189 84 41 314 Charge credit to equity for the year 56 62 6 Acquisitions 25 25 Other movements 12 3 42 33 At 31 December 2006 284 213 261 758 Deferred tax assets in respect of employee benefits primarily relate to retirement benefit plans and deferred tax assets relating to share based compensation are included in other.
In the Company a deferred tax asset of 254m 2005 nil has arisen during the year in respect of employee benefits following the creation of the HBOS FSPS and the transfer of the net post retirement liabilities to the Company.
168 Notes to the Accounts continued 30.
Deferred Tax continued Deferred tax liabilities 2005 Capital Available Cash flow Long term Effective Other Total allowances for sale hedges assurance interest investments business rate m m m m m m m At 1 January 2005 944 68 40 987 122 56 2,217 Charge to income for the year 39 322 125 486 Credit charge to equity for the year 3 17 14 Acquisitions 107 107 Disposals 55 55 Other movements 10 10 At 31 December 2005 928 65 57 1,416 122 171 2,759 Deferred tax assets 2005 Employee Provisions Other Total benefits m m m m At 1 January 2005 507 293 195 995 Charge to income for the year 38 1 22 59 Credit to equity for the year 72 72 At 31 December 2005 541 294 173 1,008 31.
Other Liabilities Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Unclaimed shares 152 165 152 165 Other liabilities 6,235 4,847 61 60 6,387 5,012 213 225 Unclaimed shares comprise the net sale proceeds of certain Halifax Group Limited formerly Halifax Group plc ordinary shares which, following the Halifax Group restructuring which took effect on 1 June 1999, represented Halifax plc ordinary shares.
These shares were issued to meet claims for Halifax plc ordinary shares from qualifying members of Halifax Building Society and others following the transfer of business from Halifax Building Society to Halifax plc in 1997.
This liability also includes the related unclaimed dividends up to the date of sale and the unclaimed capital payments arising from the Halifax Group restructuring in 1999.
These amounts are being held on behalf of the persons who would have been entitled to claim the shares before they were sold.
Amounts representing the sale proceeds together with the unclaimed capital payments can be claimed during a period of nine years from the date of sale 30 August 2001, after which time they will be forfeited.
Amounts representing the related unclaimed dividends can be claimed during the period of twelve years from the date of the resolution for payment of each dividend, after which time they will be forfeited.
Following an internal reorganisation on 1 July 2002, responsibility for these balances was assumed by the Company.
Other Provisions Mortgage Other Total endowment compensation m m m At 1 January 2006 188 90 278 Exchange translation 2 2 Additional provision in the year 95 14 109 Utilised in year 152 32 184 At 31 December 2006 131 70 201 Other provisions include property-related costs in respect of surplus leased space and provisions for long term and annual leave.
169 Notes to the Accounts continued 33.
Debt Securities in Issue 2006 2005 m m Bonds and medium term notes 60,643 53,203 Other debt securities 123,007 104,758 183,650 157,961 The Group issues debt securities to securitise loans and advances and certain other assets of the Group, principally through special purpose vehicles.
At 31 December 2006 such debt securities in issue amounted to 63,905m 2005 55,727m.
Debt securities in issue measured at amortised cost amounted to 180,390m 2005 156,718m.
This includes debt securities in issue subject to fair value hedge designation, such as debt securities relating to securitisation and covered bonds, which have been adjusted to reflect the fair value of the risk being hedged.
Debt securities in issue designated at fair value through the income statement amounted to 3,260m 2005 1,243m.
Other Borrowed Funds Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Preferred securities 3,191 2,524 Preference shares 1,128 1,313 1,128 1,289 Subordinated liabilities Dated 8,656 9,218 4,683 4,257 Undated 6,717 7,199 6,515 6,272 19,692 20,254 12,326 11,818 Preferred securities Group 2006 2005 m m US$750m 6.071% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities of US$1,000 each 381 435 US$1,000m 6.85% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities of US$1,000 each 509 580 600m 6.461% Guaranteed Non-voting Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Series A of 1,000 each 600 600 250m 8.117% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Series 1 of 1,000 each Class A 250 250 150m 7.754% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Series 2 of 1,000 each Class B 150 150 245m 7.881% Guaranteed Non-voting Non-cumulative Preferred Securities 245 245 415m Fixed to Floating rate Guaranteed Non-voting Non-cumulative Preferred Securities 278 285 750m 4.939% Non-voting Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities 503 285m Junior Perpetual Preferred Securities 285 Other Preferred Securities 12 4 US$45m Preferred Securities 23 Unamortised issue costs 25 24 Accrued interest 33 10 Fair value hedge adjustments 53 11 3,191 2,524 On 16 May 2006 HBOS Capital Funding No.
3 L. P. a subsidiary undertaking issued 750m 4.939% Non-voting Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities.
The securities pay interest annually in arrears until 23 May 2016 at which time the interest rate will become three month Euribor plus 1.37% per annum payable quarterly in arrears.
The Group has the option to redeem these securities on 23 May 2016 and quarterly thereafter.
During the year Castlemill Investments Ltd, a subsidiary undertaking, issued 285m of Junior Perpetual Preferred Securities and other subsidiary undertakings issued Preferred Securities totalling 8m and US$45m.
170 Notes to the Accounts continued 34.
Other Borrowed Funds continued Preference shares Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m 300m 9 1 4% Non-cumulative Irredeemable 1 preference shares 300 300 300 300 100m 9 3 4% Non-cumulative Irredeemable 1 preference shares 100 100 100 100 US$750m 6.413% Fixed to Floating rate US$1 preference shares series A 382 435 382 435 US$750m 5.92% Fixed to Floating rate US$1 preference shares series B 382 435 382 435 Unamortised issue costs 8 8 8 8 Accrued interest 24 27 24 27 Fair value hedge adjustments 52 24 52 1,128 1,313 1,128 1,289 One thousand 6.413% fixed to floating rate preference shares series A of US$1 each represents one non-cumulative callable American Depository Receipt and one thousand 5.92% fixed to floating rate preference shares series B of US$1 each represents one non-cumulative American Depository Receipt.
Dated subordinated liabilities Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m 400m 8.75% Subordinated Notes 2006 400 US$150m 8.85% Notes 2006 87 75m 9.125% Subordinated Notes 2006 75 60m 9.00% Instruments 2006 60 650m 4.75% Subordinated Bonds 2009 436 446 500m 5.50% Instruments 2009 335 343 US$500m Notes 2010 254 290 US$150m Notes 2011 76 87 7m Floating Rate Notes 2011 5 750m Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2012 503 515 US$450m Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2012 229 262 200m Floating Rate Step-up Callable Subordinated Notes 2012 200 200 12.8m 6.25% Instruments 2012 9 9 A$75m Callable Notes 2012 30 32 1,000m Subordinated Callable Fixed Floating Rate Instruments 2013 671 686 325m 6.125% Notes 2013 218 223 US$1,000m 4.25% Subordinated Guaranteed Notes 2013 509 580 509 580 JPY 60bn 0.55% Subordinated Callable Notes 2013 257 296 257 296 US$500m Subordinated Callable Notes 2014 254 290 254 290 250m 11% Subordinated Bonds 2014 250 250 1,000m 4.875% Subordinated Notes 2015 671 686 671 686 500m Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016 335 343 335 343 500m Subordinated Notes 2016 335 335 US$750m Notes 2016 382 382 150m 10.5% Subordinated Bonds 2018 150 150 250m 6.375% Instruments 2019 250 250 750m Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 503 515 503 515 500m 9.375% Subordinated Bonds 2021 500 500 400m 6.45% Fixed Floating Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 2023 268 275 750m Fixed Rate Step-up Subordinated Notes due 2030 503 515 503 515 US$750m 6.00% Subordinated Notes 2033 382 435 382 435 245m 7.881% Subordinated Extendable Maturity Notes 2048 245 245 415m Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Extendable Maturity Notes 2048 278 285 Unamortised premiums, discounts and issue costs 28 32 24 26 Accrued interest 203 227 61 59 Fair value hedge adjustments 29 218 8 34 8,656 9,218 4,683 4,257 On 28 March 2006 HBOS plc issued 500m Subordinated Notes 2016 at an issue price of 99.735% of the principal amount.
The notes pay interest at a rate of three month Euribor plus 0.175% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until 29 March 2011 at which time the interest rate will become three month Euribor plus 0.675% per annum payable quarterly in arrears.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 29 March 2011 and quarterly thereafter.
171 Notes to the Accounts continued 34.
Other Borrowed Funds continued On 29 September 2006 HBOS plc issued US$750m Notes 2016 at an issue price of 99.868% of the principal amount.
The notes pay interest at a rate of three month US$ Libor plus 0.2% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until 30 September 2011 at which time the interest rate will become three month Libor plus 0.7% per annum payable quarterly in arrears.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 30 September 2011 and quarterly thereafter.
No repayment, for whatever reason, of dated subordinated liabilities prior to its stated maturity and no purchase by the relevant undertaking of its subordinated debt may be made without the consent of the Financial Services Authority.
On a winding up of the Company or subsidiary undertaking, the claims of the holders of dated loan capital shall be subordinated in right of payment to the claims of all depositors and creditors of the Company or subsidiary undertaking other than creditors whose claims are expressed to rank pari passu with or junior to the claims of the holders of the dated loan capital.
Undated subordinated liabilities Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m 500m Cumulative Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 500 500 500 500 US$750m 6.071% Undated Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Instruments 382 435 750m 4.875% Undated Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 503 515 503 515 500m Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 335 343 335 343 US$1,000m 5.375% Undated Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 509 580 509 580 750m Undated Subordinated Fixed to Floating Notes 503 515 503 515 600m 5.75% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 600 600 600 600 US$1,000m 6.85% Undated Subordinated Notes 509 580 600m Fixed to Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 600 600 500m Fixed to Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 335 343 335 343 300m Perpetual Regulatory Tier One Securities 300 300 300m 7.5% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 300 300 300 300 JPY 42.5bn 3.50% Undated Subordinated Yen Step-up Notes 182 210 182 210 US$300m Reset Notes 153 174 200m Perpetual Notes 200 200 200m 7.375% Undated Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 200 200 300m Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 201 206 201 206 US$250m Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes 127 145 150m Instruments 150 150m Instruments 150 150 JPY 17bn Instruments 73 84 100m Instruments 100 100 100m 12% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 100 100 100m 8.75% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 100 100 75m 13.625% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 75 75 JPY 9bn Instruments 38 44 50m 9.375% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 50 50 500m 5.75% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 500 500 500 500 750m 4.25% Perpetual Fixed Floating Rate Reset Subordinated Guaranteed Notes 503 515 750m 4.939% Undated Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 503 Unamortised premiums, discounts and issue costs 44 53 33 36 Accrued interest 124 128 87 81 Fair value hedge adjustments 125 1 6,717 7,199 6,515 6,272 On 16 May 2006 HBOS plc issued 750m Undated Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes at par to HBOS Capital Funding No.
The notes pay interest at a rate of 4.939% annually in arrears until 23 May 2016 at which time the interest rate will become three month Euribor plus 1.37% per annum payable quarterly in arrears.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 23 May 2016 and quarterly thereafter.
No exercise of any redemption option or purchase by the relevant undertaking of any of its undated subordinated liabilities may be made without the consent of the Financial Services Authority.
On a winding up of the Company or subsidiary undertaking, the claims of the holders of undated loan capital shall be subordinated in right of payment to the claims of all depositors and creditors of the Company or subsidiary undertaking other than creditors whose claims are expressed to rank pari passu with or junior to the claims of the holders of the undated loan capital.
The undated loan capital is junior in point of subordination to the dated loan capital referred to above.
172 Notes to the Accounts continued 35.
Share Capital Allotted, called up and fully paid Ordinary Preference Total shares shares m m m At 1 January 2005 981 981 Issued preference shares 198 198 Issued under employee share schemes 5 5 Ordinary share buyback 27 27 At 31 December 2005 959 198 1,157 Issued under employee share schemes 8 8 Ordinary share buyback 26 26 At 31 December 2006 941 198 1,139 Issued preference share capital has been reduced by 727m and share premium increased following a reclassification of the issue of new shares in 2005.
Issued Share Capital On 16 June 2006 HBOS plc issued 350,000 6.3673% fixed to floating non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each at an issue price of 1,000.
In December 2005 HBOS plc announced a share buyback programme for 2006 in addition to the 2005 programme.
During the year HBOS plc has bought 97 million 2005 116 million shares at a total consideration including costs of 982m 2005 994m.
At 31 December 2006 3 million 2005 6 million shares bought back remain to be cancelled.
The Group operates a number of share option plans and saving related option plans for both executives and employees.
Details of these are given in Note 8.
Authorised Share Capital At 31 December 2006 the authorised share capital comprised: Ordinary shares 4,740 million ordinary shares of 25 pence each 2005 4,740 million.
Preference shares 2,597 million sterling preference shares of 1 each 2005 2,597 million, 200 million 6.125% non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of 1 each 2005 200 million, 250,000 8.117% non-cumulative perpetual preference shares class A of 10 each 2005 250,000, 150,000 7.754% non-cumulative perpetual preference shares class B of 10 each 2005 150,000, 750,000 6.0884% non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2005 750,000, 198,065,600 6.475% non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2005 198,065,600, 3,000 million preference shares of 1 each 2005 3,000 million, 4,498 million preference shares of US$1 each 2005 4,498 million, 750,000 6.413% preference shares series A of US$1 each 2005 750,000, 750,000 5.92% preference shares series B of US$1 each 2005 750,000, 350,000 6.3673% fixed to floating non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2005 nil, 300 million 9 1 4% non-cumulative irredeemable 1 preference shares 2005 300 million, 100 million 9 3 4% non-cumulative irredeemable 1 preference shares 2005 100 million, 1,000 million preference shares of Aus$1 each 2005 nil, 1,000 million preference shares of Can$1 each 2005 nil.
The terms of some of the preference shares when issued are such that these shares are classified as other borrowed funds rather than as issued share capital.
173 Notes to the Accounts continued 36.
Reconciliation of Shareholders Equity Group Other reserves Share Share Cash flow Available Other Retained Minority Total a a b capital premium hedge for sale reserves earnings interests reserve reserve m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2005 981 1,441 88 169 509 13,334 159 16,681 Changes in equity Foreign exchange translation 4 4 Net actuarial losses from defined benefit plans 167 167 Available for sale investments Net change in fair value 133 133 Net gains transferred to income statement 118 118 Cash flow hedges Effective portion of changes in fair value taken to equity 6 6 Net losses transferred to income statement 34 34 Profit after tax 3,230 32 3,262 Total recognised income and expense 40 15 4 3,063 32 3,146 Dividends paid 1,363 1,363 Issue of new shares 203 875 1,078 Ordinary share buyback 27 27 994 994 Net movement in own shares 174 174 Movement in share-based compensation scheme reserve 82 82 At 31 December 2005 1,157 2,316 128 184 532 13,948 191 18,456 Changes in equity Foreign exchange translation 23 23 Revaluation of existing net assets upon acquisition of a jointly controlled entity 15 15 Net actuarial gains from defined benefit plans 163 163 Available for sale investments Net change in fair value 190 190 Net gains transferred to income statement 171 171 Cash flow hedges Effective portion of changes in fair value taken to equity 209 209 Net losses transferred to income statement 86 86 Profit for the year 3,879 60 3,939 Total recognised income and expense 295 19 23 4,027 60 4,378 Dividends paid 1,501 22 1,523 Issue of new shares 8 540 548 Ordinary share buyback 26 26 982 982 Dilution of shareholdings in subsidiary undertakings 162 162 Acquisition of disposal group 125 125 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 30 30 Net movement in own shares 47 47 Movements in respect of share-based compensation 84 84 At 31 December 2006 1,139 2,856 423 203 535 15,529 486 21,171 a Share capital at 31 December 2005 has been reduced by 727m and share premium increased following a reclassification of the issue of new shares in 2005. b Other reserves principally include the merger reserve arising from the combination of Halifax and Bank of Scotland in 2001.
The cumulative balance for exchange translation at 31 December 2006 is 32 m 2005 9 m. 174 Notes to the Accounts continued 36.
Reconciliation of Shareholders Equity continued Company Share Share Other Retained Total a a capital premium reserves earnings m m m m m At 1 January 2005 981 1,441 4,859 7,281 Changes in equity Profit after tax 1,894 1,894 Total recognised income and expense 1,894 1,894 Dividends paid 1,363 1,363 Issue of new shares 203 875 1,078 Ordinary share buyback 27 27 994 994 Net movement in own shares 58 58 Movement in share-based compensation scheme reserve 79 79 At 31 December 2005 1,157 2,316 27 4,417 7,917 Changes in equity Net actuarial loss from defined benefit plans net of tax 93 93 Profit after tax 2,700 2,700 Total recognised income and expense 2,607 2,607 Dividends paid 1,501 1,501 Issue of new shares 8 540 548 Ordinary share buyback 26 26 982 982 Net movement in own shares 59 59 Movements in respect of share-based compensation 2 2 Movements in respect of tax on employee benefits 57 57 At 31 December 2006 1,139 2,856 53 4,537 8,585 a Share capital at 31 December 2005 has been reduced by 727m and share premium increased following a reclassification of the issue of new shares in 2005.
175 Notes to the Accounts continued 36.
Reconciliation of Shareholders Equity continued Movements in own shares are included within retained earnings.
These shares are held for the purpose of satisfying obligations arising from certain share-based compensation schemes as follows: No.
2 Employee Share Ownership Trusts The No.
1 Employee Share Ownership Trust administers shares conditionally granted to Executive Directors and other executives under the HBOS Long Term Executive Bonus Plan.
The Trust also administers shares which have been conditionally granted to Executive Directors, other executives and employees under the HBOS plc Annual Bonus Plan and overseas operations of the HBOS plc Share Incentive Plan Free Shares.
2 Employee Share Ownership Trust administers shares to be awarded to Executive Directors, other executives and employees under the Group's Sharesave and share option plans, where options are not satisfied by the new issue of shares or from shares held by the HBOS QUEST.
Interest free loans have been provided by the Company to the Trusts to allow shares to be purchased in the market to satisfy these share grants.
At 31 December 2006 0.7 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2005 0.2 million with a market value of 8m 2005 2m were held in the No.
1 Employee Share Ownership Trust and 3.6 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2005 0.1 million with a market value of 41m 2005 1m were held in the No.
The shares in the Trusts are included in the balance sheet of the Group at a net book value of nil 2005 nil.
Under the terms of the Trusts, dividends on these shares require to be waived.
HBOS plc Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust the HBOS QUEST The HBOS QUEST operates in conjunction with the HBOS Sharesave scheme and the former savings-related share schemes operated by Bank of Scotland and Halifax Group plc.
At 31 December 2006, the HBOS QUEST held 1.7 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2005 3.2 million with a market value of 19m 2005 31m.
These shares are included in the balance sheet at nil value 2005 nil.
Under the terms of the Trust Deed, dividends on these shares require to be waived.
HBOS plc Share Incentive Plan A number of trusts operate in conjunction with the Free Shares Plan which commenced in 2005. a The Share Incentive Plan trust operates in conjunction with free share awards made to employees throughout the Group, except to the extent noted below.
At 31 December 2006 this trust held 12.7 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2005 6.5 million, with a market value of 144m.
2005 64m These shares are included in the balance sheet at nil value.
b The Irish Profit Share Trust holds free shares awarded to colleagues employed in Ireland.
At 31 December 2006 this trust held 0.3 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2005 0.1 million, with a market value of 3m 2005 1m.
These shares are included in the balance sheet at nil value.
c The HBOS Australia Employee Share Trust holds free shares awarded to colleagues employed in Australia.
At 31 December 2006 this trust held 1.0 million shares 2005 0.5 million with a market value of 12m 2005 5m.
These ordinary shares are included in the balance sheet at nil value.
1 Employee Share Ownership Trust, which is described above, administers free shares awarded to colleagues based overseas.
Dividends After the balance sheet date a dividend of 27.9 pence per ordinary share was proposed by the Directors.
This ordinary dividend has not been provided for but the estimated impact on retained earnings, based on the number of shares in issue at 31 December 2006, is 1,050m.
Ordinary dividends are charged direct to reserves only when the Company has a contractual obligation to pay.
The following dividends have been charged direct to retained earnings during the year: 2006 2005 m m Ordinary dividends 2005 final dividend paid of 24.35p per ordinary share 2004 22.15p 930 868 2006 interim dividend paid of 13.5p per ordinary share 2005 11.75p 512 459 1,442 1,327 Preference dividends 59 36 1,501 1,363 176 Notes to the Accounts continued 38.
Contingent Liabilities and Commitments Group 2006 2005 m m Contingent liabilities Acceptances and endorsements 62 23 Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 5,068 5,093 5,130 5,116 Commitments Short term trade related transactions 120 117 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend with a maturity: Up to and including one year 61,645 59,315 Over one year 24,049 20,381 85,814 79,813 Company 2006 2005 m m Contingent liabilities Guarantees provided to subsidiary companies 2,552 2,180 2,552 2,180 The nominal contractual amounts above indicate the volume of business outstanding at the year end and do not reflect the underlying credit and other risks, which are significantly lower.
Further details of assets pledged as collateral security are given in Note 16 for investment securities and Note 14 for loans and advances to customers.
Group 2006 2005 m m Where the Group is a lessee the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due to be paid in the following periods: Not later than one year 154 142 Later than one year and not later than five years 567 494 Later than five years 1,061 994 1,782 1,630 Where the Group is a lessee the future obligations payable under finance leases are as follows: Not later than one year 1 1 Later than one year and not later than five years 1 1 2 2 Commitments in respect of capital expenditure on property and equipment that is authorised but not provided for in the accounts, for contracts which have been entered into amount to 21m 2005 16m.
Commitments for contracts which have been placed in relation to operating lease assets amount to 9m 2005 10m.
177 Notes to the Accounts continued 39.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments The fair values of financial assets classified as loans and receivables or financial liabilities held at amortised cost are based on market prices where available, or are estimated using other valuation techniques.
Where they are short term in nature or reprice frequently, fair value approximates to carrying value.
The fair value information presented does not represent the fair value of the Group as a going concern.
The classification adopted by the Group is shown in the following table: 2006 Derivatives Available Loans and and at fair for sale receivables value through the income statement Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value amount amount amount m m m m m m Assets Cash and balances with central banks 1,966 1,966 Items in course of collection 880 880 Financial assets held for trading 49,139 49,139 Derivative assets 8,612 8,612 Loans and advances to banks 2,758 2,758 8,835 9,426 Loans and advances to customers 376,808 377,158 Investment securities 71,684 71,684 44,854 44,854 493 493 Other financial assets 717 717 1,444 1,431 132,910 132,910 44,854 44,854 390,426 391,354 2006 Derivatives At and at fair amortised value through cost the income statement Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value amount amount m m m m Liabilities Deposits by banks 30,557 30,460 Customer accounts 211,857 212,077 Financial liabilities held for trading 22,334 22,334 Derivative liabilities 10,755 10,755 Investment contract liabilities 40,792 40,792 Debt securities in issue 3,260 3,260 180,390 180,078 Other borrowed funds 48 48 19,644 20,203 Other financial liabilities 2,654 2,555 77,189 77,189 445,102 445,373 Investment contracts exclude investment contracts classified as investment contracts with DPF.
178 Notes to the Accounts continued 39.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments continued 2005 Derivatives Available Loans and and at fair for sale receivables value through the income statement Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value amount amount amount m m m m m m Assets Cash and balances with central banks 1,678 1,678 Items in course of collection 753 753 Financial assets held for trading 41,766 41,766 Derivative assets 10,499 10,499 Loans and advances to banks 3,056 3,056 14,300 14,377 Loans and advances to customers 343,768 345,728 Investment securities 61,619 61,619 41,927 41,927 788 1,212 Other financial assets 758 731 1,039 1,009 117,698 117,671 41,927 41,927 362,326 364,757 2005 Derivatives At and at fair amortised value through cost the income statement Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value amount amount m m m m Liabilities Deposits by banks 2 2 32,039 32,031 Customer accounts 200,948 201,598 Financial liabilities held for trading 25,007 25,007 Derivative liabilities 8,576 8,576 Investment contract liabilities 31,466 31,466 Debt securities in issue 1,243 1,243 156,718 156,939 Other borrowed funds 120 120 20,134 22,392 Other financial liabilities 397 397 841 785 66,811 66,811 410,680 413,745 Investment contracts exclude investment contracts classified as investment contracts with DPF.
Effective Interest Rates 2006 2005 Yield % Yield % Assets Loans and advances to banks 5.25 4.50 Loans and advances to customers 6.31 6.25 Investment securities 4.53 3.40 Liabilities Deposits by banks 4.53 4.50 Customer accounts 3.70 3.90 Debt securities in issue 4.57 3.95 Other borrowed funds 5.35 5.40 The above figures do not take account of derivative interest rate hedging and therefore do not reflect economic margins earned.
179 Notes to the Accounts continued 41.
Interest Rate Sensitivity Gap In the tables below the carrying amounts of derivative financial instruments, financial assets and liabilities held for trading and the assets and liabilities of the disposal group are included as internal funding of the trading book.
The notional principal amounts associated with those derivatives which are used to reduce the Groups exposure to interest rate movements are shown as part of net hedging derivatives.
This includes derivatives held for economic hedging purposes which do not meet the hedge accounting requirements of IAS39.
The estimated potential loss arising from the Groups exposure to interest rate risk from the Groups trading activities is shown in Note 42 Trading Value at Risk.
Additional information on the Group's management of interest rate risk is given on page 85 of the Risk Management report.
However, the expected cash flows underlying the valuations are not directly subject to interest rate risks.
Accordingly, these balances have been included in non-interest bearing items in the table above.
The sensitivity of the Group to changes in interest rates related to long term insurance and investment contracts is set out in Note 24. b Assets and liabilities associated with policyholder funds and collective investment schemes shown in Note 45 have been excluded from the repricing profile in the above table.
This is on the basis that the underlying interest rate risks inherent in the net assets of the funds are matched by the policyholder liabilities, limiting the impact of these risks on the Group results.
180 Notes to the Accounts continued 41.
181 Notes to the Accounts continued 42.
Trading Value at Risk The Groups Value at Risk VaR methodology of estimating potential losses arising from the Groups exposure to market risk is explained on pages 85 to 86 of the Risk Management report.
The Groups trading market risk exposure for the year ended 31 December 2006 is analysed below.
Interest rate risk relating to the trading book is principally managed using a sensitivity methodology to measure exposure and set limits.
This methodology calculates the present value impact of a one basis point movement in interest rates on the outstanding positions.
Credit spread risk is managed using a credit spread VaR and position limits based on credit spread sensitivity.
Foreign exchange risk is principally managed by the use of position limits.
Equity risk is managed through an Equity Index VaR and position limits.
Non-trading Currency Exposure Structural currency exposures arise from the Groups investments in overseas subsidiaries, branches and other investments and are noted in the table below.
Functional currency of the operation 2006 2005 Net Borrowing Remaining Net Borrowing Remaining investments taken out to structural investments taken out to structural in overseas hedge net currency in overseas hedge net currency operations investments exposure operations investments exposure m m m m m m Australian Dollar 1,560 1,560 1,345 1,341 4 Euro 1,464 1,224 240 1,088 892 196 US Dollar 106 99 7 161 161 Other 13 13 10 10 Total 3,143 2,883 260 2,604 2,394 210 As at 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005 there are no material net currency exposures in the non-trading book relating to transactional or non-structural positions that would give rise to net currency gains or losses.
Additional information on the Groups foreign exchange risk is set out on page 85 of the Risk Management report.
182 Notes to the Accounts continued 44.
Assets and Liabilities in Foreign Currencies 2006 2005 m m The aggregate amounts of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than Sterling were: Assets 133,697 195,599 Liabilities 169,828 218,502 The above figures do not reflect the Groups exposure to foreign exchange, which is significantly lower as it is hedged by currency derivatives.
Maturity Analysis of Assets and Liabilities The tables below break down the Groups financial assets and liabilities excluding policyholder funds by remaining contractual maturity.
Policyholder funds are excluded from the maturity profile in the table as the underlying liquidity risks are for the account of the policyholders and have no direct impact on the Groups results.
Maturity Analysis of Assets and Liabilities continued The tables below set out the assets and liabilities of the policyholder funds comprising the unit-linked and with-profit funds as well as the consolidated collective investment schemes.
The insurance and investment contract liabilities have been analysed between due within one year and due in one year or more based on net expected cash flows.
Investment securities and derivative assets have been categorised as current assets on the basis that they stand ready to be traded either as part of the normal portfolio management process or to meet policyholder withdrawals.
The remaining assets and liabilities have been categorised as due within one year and due in one year or more based on their expected maturities.
2006 Due within Due in Total 1 year 1 year or more m m m Assets Derivative assets 330 330 Loans and advances to banks 2,168 2,168 Investment securities 63,236 63,236 Investment properties 4,911 4,911 Property and equipment 186 186 Other assets 424 424 Total Assets 66,158 5,097 71,255 Liabilities Deposits by banks 1 1 Derivative liabilities 280 280 Insurance contract liabilities 2,058 19,113 21,171 Investment contract liabilities 4,419 43,525 47,944 Unallocated surplus 1,543 1,543 Other liabilities 503 503 Total Liabilities 7,261 64,181 71,442 Policyholder assets have been reduced by 187m in respect of holdings of the Companys shares that are held within the funds.
185 Notes to the Accounts continued 45.
Maturity Analysis of Assets and Liabilities continued 2005 Due within Due in Total 1 year 1 year or more m m m Assets Derivative assets 84 84 Loans and advances to banks 1,450 1,450 Investment securities 52,773 52,773 Investment properties 3,824 3,824 Property and equipment 164 164 Other assets 888 888 Total Assets 55,195 3,988 59,183 Liabilities Deposits by banks 2 2 Insurance contract liabilities 2,399 15,552 17,951 Investment contract liabilities 4,189 35,168 39,357 Unallocated surplus 974 974 Other liabilities 1,123 1,123 Total Liabilities 7,713 51,694 59,407 Policyholder assets have been reduced by 224m in respect of holdings in the Companys shares that are held within the funds.
Acquisitions On 31 May 2006 the Group acquired control of the 50% of the ordinary share capital of Lex Vehicle Leasing Holdings Limited Lex previously owned by its fellow joint venturer, the RAC, making Lex a wholly owned subsidiary.
The consideration payable in cash including costs of acquisition totalled 235m of which 232m has been paid with 3m payable in annual instalments over the next six years.
The fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired totalled 84m.
The principal fair value adjustments relating to the balance sheet of Lex comprise a payment to the RAC pension scheme, representing the statutory debt due to that scheme of 53m and an upward revaluation of the car fleet of 17m.
A net charge of 15m reflecting the post-tax difference between the book value and fair value of the net assets already owned by the Group has been booked directly to retained earnings.
Goodwill of 151m arose on acquisition, attributable to obtaining a market leading position and the expectation of cost synergies.
The post-acquisition profit before tax attributable to the 50% acquired for the seven months to 31 December 2006 included in the Groups consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2006 is 14m.
On 16 July 2006, the Group acquired a 58.3% equity interest in Mother Topco Limited for 175m.
Subsequently, on 31 October 2006, the Mother Topco Limited group of companies acquired 100% of the equity of McCarthy & Stone, a UK provider of retirement homes.
The cost of this acquisition was 1,128m.
The assets and liabilities of the sub-group headed by Mother Topco Limited are classified as a disposal group Note 12.
The post-acquisition profit after tax of this group of companies was 5m.
On 1 August 2006 the Group acquired Mourants Equity Compensation Solutions Ltd, a share scheme administration business.
The cost of consideration, paid in cash including costs of acquisition, totalled 29m.
The fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired totalled 12m.
Goodwill of 17m arose on acquisition, representing access to new markets, an assembled workforce and cost synergies.
186 Notes to the Accounts continued 47.
Related Party Transactions HBOS plc is the ultimate parent company of the Group.
Banking transactions are entered into by the Company with its subsidiaries in the normal course of business and are at normal commercial terms.
These include loans, deposits and foreign currency transactions.
Balances between HBOS plc and its subsidiaries are shown on the Company balance sheet on page 129.
Interest receivable and payable are 1,469m 2005 1,336m and 966m 2005 998m respectively.
In 2005 HBOS plc became the principal employer of the Group and staff and other costs in the year of 2,277m 2005 2,015m were recharged to subsidiaries.
In the year ended 31 December 2006, the Group provided both administration and processing services to Sainsburys Bank plc.
The amounts payable to the Group during the year are 36m 2005 41m, of which 15m is outstanding at the year end 2005 24m.
Sainsburys Bank plc also has balances within loans and advances to banks of 766m 2005 1,011m and balances within deposits by banks of 943m 2005 830m outstanding at 31 December 2006.
At 31 December 2006, there are loans and advances to customers of 10,115m 2005 9,310m outstanding and balances within customer accounts of 304m 2005 185m relating to jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings.
At 31 December 2006, there are customer accounts of 3m 2005 16m and investment and insurance contract liabilities of 489m 2005 401m related to the Groups pension arrangements.
Additionally, the Groups pension funds hold HBOS plc ordinary shares with a value of 28m 2005 28m.
Transactions with Key Management Personnel For the purposes of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, key management personnel comprise the members of the Board of HBOS plc and, as the senior executive committee of the Group, the members of the HBOS Executive Committee.
Remuneration and other compensation 2006 2005 000 000 Total emoluments 11,196 9,199 Post retirement benefits 222 577 Equity compensation benefits 6,955 9,813 Product transactions Key management personnel and other colleagues, as well as receiving salary, incentives, shares, pensions and other benefits are entitled to enter into product transactions with HBOS plc and its subsidiaries.
These transactions are generally in the form of banking, savings, mortgage, loan, insurance, assurance and investment products.
Any product offerings that are received on beneficial terms compared to the terms received by customers and which give rise to taxable benefits in kind are declared to HM Revenue & Customs and taxed accordingly.
Key management personnel and members of their close families have undertaken transactions with HBOS plc and its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings in the normal course of business, details of which are given below: Mortgages, credit cards and term loans Number of key management personnel 000 At 1 January 2005 12 5,486 Amounts advanced during the year 4 1,154 Interest charged 9 281 Amounts repaid during the year 11 2,310 Upon resignation 2 85 At 31 December 2005 10 4,526 Amounts advanced during the year 5 1,589 Interest charged 7 245 Amounts repaid during the year 11 1,324 Upon resignation 1 13 At 31 December 2006 10 5,049 187 Notes to the Accounts continued 48.
Transactions with Key Management Personnel continued Bank, cheque or current accounts Number Credit Debit Net of key balances balances balances management personnel 000 000 000 At 1 January 2005 9 1,515 60 1,455 Upon appointment 2 27 27 Net movement during the year 11 202 17 219 Upon resignation 2 118 118 At 31 December 2005 10 1,222 77 1,145 Net movement during the year 12 6,316 940 5,376 Upon resignation 1 51 51 At 31 December 2006 11 7,487 1,017 6,470 Savings and deposit accounts Number of key management personnel 000 At 1 January 2005 6 1,859 Upon appointment 2 197 Amounts deposited during the year 9 2,058 Interest credited 9 58 Amounts withdrawn during the year 9 1,234 Upon resignation 2 571 At 31 December 2005 7 2,367 Upon appointment 1 94 Amounts deposited during the year 8 5,611 Interest credited 9 51 Amounts withdrawn during the year 7 1,813 Upon resignation 1 3,010 At 31 December 2006 8 3,300 Life assurance and investment contracts Number of key management personnel 000 At 1 January 2005 6 2,392 Upon appointment 2 134 Premiums paid amounts invested during the year 4 1,373 Other movements including investment returns 8 613 Total sum insured value of investment at 31 December 2005 7 4,512 Upon appointment 1 48 Premiums paid amounts invested during the year 8 307 Other movements including investment returns 8 2,127 Upon resignation 1 5 Total sum insured value of investment at 31 December 2006 8 6,989 188 Notes to the Accounts continued 49.
Segmental Analysis Business Sector Transactions between business sectors are conducted on an arm's length basis.
Internal charges and transfer pricing adjustments are re ected in the performance of each sector.
2006 Retail Corporate Insurance & International Treasury & Group Total Investment Asset Items Management m m m m m m m Net interest income 4,188 1,861 93 1,239 205 7,400 Net fee and commission income 1,298 341 665 46 143 1,163 Net trading income 5 25 249 279 Other operating income 47 1,343 11,561 899 22 13,872 Net operating income 5,538 3,570 10,803 2,184 619 22,714 Administrative expenses 2,153 752 769 612 288 49 4,623 Depreciation and amortisation 69 819 51 57 4 192 1,192 Goodwill impairment 41 14 55 Other operating expenses 9,242 459 9,701 Operating expenses 2,222 1,612 10,076 1,128 292 241 15,571 Impairment losses on loans and advances 1,097 424 221 1,742 Impairment on investment securities 69 2 71 Operating profit 2,219 1,465 727 833 327 241 5,330 Share of profits of jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings 2 157 37 3 1 126 Non-operating income 48 180 22 250 Profit before taxation 2,269 1,622 690 1,016 350 241 5,706 a Total assets 242,960 96,560 82,656 61,416 106,658 779 591,029 Included in total assets Interests in jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings 57 536 43 51 601 a Total liabilities 237,410 91,610 77,421 57,810 104,828 779 569,858 Capital expenditure on property and equipment and software 7 39 18 72 10 351 497 a The total assets and total liabilities of Corporate include 1,388m and 909m respectively being the assets and liabilities of the disposal group.
189 Notes to the Accounts continued 49.
Segmental Analysis continued Business Sector 2005 Retail Corporate Insurance & International Treasury & Group Total Investment Asset Items Management m m m m m m m Net interest income 4,028 1,695 95 1,018 183 6,829 Net fee and commission income 1,253 293 651 30 109 1,034 Net trading income 4 14 3 197 218 Other operating income 58 1,079 13,895 484 20 15,536 Net operating income 5,343 3,081 13,149 1,535 509 23,617 Administrative expenses 2,402 695 755 501 243 15 4,611 Depreciation and amortisation 66 558 47 53 4 208 936 Other operating expenses 11,528 169 11,697 Operating expenses 2,468 1,253 12,330 723 247 223 17,244 Impairment losses on loans and advances 991 428 180 1,599 Impairment on investment securities 45 6 51 Operating profit 1,884 1,355 819 626 262 223 4,723 Share of profits of jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings 9 65 34 2 1 39 Non-operating income 46 46 Profit before taxation 1,939 1,420 785 624 263 223 4,808 Total assets 224,868 87,195 71,623 49,730 106,633 824 540,873 Included in total assets Interests in jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings 61 490 114 21 1 459 Total liabilities 219,601 82,735 66,582 47,291 105,384 824 522,417 Capital expenditure on property and equipment and software 6 1 51 112 11 284 465 190 Notes to the Accounts continued 49.
Segmental Analysis continued Geographical The table below analyses the Group results and assets by geographical area based on the location of the customer.
