1 Basis of preparation a Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as endorsed by the EU.
EU-endorsed IFRSs may differ from IFRSs as published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs have not been endorsed by the EU.
At 31 December 2006, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2006 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference in application to HSBC between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB.
IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued by the IASB and its predecessor body and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and its predecessor body.
The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
They have been applied consistently, except for: IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 32, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts IFRS 4 have been applied for the first time from 1 January 2005.
Where disclosed, the 2004 comparative information has been prepared on the basis of HSBCs previous accounting policies disclosed in Note 46g on the Financial Statements in the Annual Report and Accounts 2005: HSBC has adopted Amendment to IAS 39: The Fair Value Option, Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures, Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease with effect from 1 January 2005: No comparative information for disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures has been presented for 2004 as permitted for entities applying the standard for annual periods beginning before 1 January 2006: and During 2006, HSBC changed how certain of its geographical operating segments are managed and their performance assessed.
As a result, a new segment, Latin America and the Caribbean Latin America, was formed from the Groups businesses previously reported under South America, and those in Mexico and Panama which had been previously reported as part of the North America geographical segment.
All prior period comparative data have been restated to conform to the current year presentation.
On 1 January 2006, HSBC adopted Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Financial Guarantee Contracts, Amendment to IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, and Amendment to IAS 39 Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions.
The application of these amendments had no significant effect on the consolidated or separate financial statements.
On 1 January 2006, HSBC adopted IFRIC 7: Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies, IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 and IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives ahead of their effective dates.
The application of these interpretations had no significant effect on the consolidated or separate financial statements.
b Differences between IFRSs and US GAAP, and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards A discussion of the significant differences between IFRSs and US GAAP and a reconciliation to US GAAP of certain amounts is contained in Note 47.
As stated in Note 46, there are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs, Hong Kong and US reporting requirements.
c Presentation of information Disclosures under IFRS 4 and IFRS 7 relating to the nature and extent of risks have been included in the audited sections of the Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk on pages 165 to 247.
301 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 1 Capital disclosures under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements have been included in the audited sections of Capital management and allocation on pages 243 to 247.
As a result of the Companies Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration Regulations 2005 coming into force, the presentation and the level of detail of the information disclosed in Note 8 has changed compared with the prior year.
Comparative information has been provided on a consistent basis with the current year presentation as required by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
In publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, HSBC Holdings has taken advantage of the exemption in section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these financial statements.
HSBC has taken advantage of the exemption under Regulation 7 of the Partnerships and Unlimited Companies Accounts Regulations 1993 from certain partnerships that are consolidated by HSBC presenting their own individual financial statements under IFRSs.
The functional currency of HSBC Holdings plc is US dollars, which is also the presentational currency of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC.
d Comparative information As required by US GAAP, these consolidated financial statements include two years of comparative information for the consolidated income statement, consolidated cash flow statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, and related notes on the financial statements, with certain exceptions in respect of the 2004 comparative information, as explained in a Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards above.
e Use of estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and assumptions about future conditions.
Use of available information and application of judgement are inherent in the formation of estimates.
Actual results in the future may differ from those reported.
In this regard, management believes that the critical accounting policies where judgement is necessarily applied are those which relate to loan impairment, goodwill impairment and the valuation of financial instruments see Critical Accounting Policies on pages 111 to 115.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in the notes on these financial statements.
f Consolidation The consolidated financial statements of HSBC comprise the financial statements of HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December, with the exception of the banking and insurance subsidiaries of HSBC Bank Argentina, whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually to comply with local regulations.
Accordingly, HSBC uses their audited interim financial statements, drawn up to 31 December annually.
Newly acquired subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that HSBC gains control.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by HSBC.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration given at the date of exchange, together with costs directly attributable to that acquisition.
The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of HSBCs share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of HSBCs share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the business acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Entities that are controlled by HSBC are consolidated until the date that control ceases.
In the context of Special Purpose Entities SPEs, the following circumstances may indicate a relationship in which, in substance, HSBC controls and, consequently, consolidates an SPE: the activities of the SPE are being conducted on behalf of HSBC according to its specific business needs so that HSBC obtains benefits from the SPEs operation: HSBC has the decision-making powers to obtain the majority of the benefits of the activities of the SPE or, 302 by setting up an autopilot mechanism, HSBC has delegated these decision-making powers: HSBC has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the SPE and therefore may be exposed to risks incident to the activities of the SPE: or HSBC retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intra-HSBC transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC also include the attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates.
These are based on financial statements made up to 31 December, with the exception of the Bank of Communications Limited, Ping An Insurance Group Company of China, Limited, and Industrial Bank Company Limited which are included on the basis of financial statements made up for the twelve months to 30 September.
These are equity accounted three months in arrears in order to meet the requirements of the Groups reporting timetable.
HSBC has taken into account changes in the period from 1 October to 31 December that would have materially affected its results.
g Future accounting developments IFRSs At 31 December 2006, HSBC had adopted all IFRSs and Interpretations that had been issued by the IASB and IFRIC, and endorsed by the EU.
There are currently no IFRSs or Interpretations that have been issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU which become effective after 31 December 2006 that have not been adopted by HSBC.
Standards and Interpretations issued by the IASB but not endorsed by the EU IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8, which replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting IAS 14, was issued on 30 November 2006 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This standard specifies how an entity should report information about its operating segments, based on information about the components of the entity that management uses to make operating decisions.
HSBC currently presents two sets of segments in accordance with IAS 14, one geographical and one based on customer groups, which reflect the way the businesses of the Group are managed.
HSBC currently expects to adopt IFRS 8 with effect from 1 January 2009, and will accordingly present segmental information which reflects the operating segments used to make operating decisions at that time.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC 10 was issued on 20 July 2006 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
IFRIC 10 states that any impairment losses recognised in an interim financial statement in respect of goodwill under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, or certain financial assets under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition & Measurement must not be reversed in subsequent interim or annual financial statements.
HSBC will adopt IFRIC 10 from 1 January 2007, though it is not expected to have a significant effect.
IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 11 was issued on 30 November 2006 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
IFRIC 11 requires a share-based payment arrangement in which an entity receives goods or services as consideration for its own equity-instruments to be accounted for as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction, regardless of how the equity instruments required are obtained.
The Interpretation also provides guidance on whether share-based payment arrangements in which suppliers of goods or services of an entity are provided with equity instruments of the entitys parent, should be accounted for as cash-settled or equity-settled in the entitys financial statements.
HSBC applies IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in the same manner as set out in IFRIC 11, therefore there will be no impact for HSBC.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 12 was issued on 30 November 2006 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 12 provides guidance on service concession arrangements by which a government or other public sector entity grants contracts for the supply of public services to private sector operators.
IFRIC 12 addresses how service concession operators should apply existing IFRSs to account for the obligations they undertake and the rights they receive in service concession arrangements.
IFRIC 12 is unlikely to have a material effect on HSBC.
303 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 US GAAP Future accounting developments in respect of US GAAP are set out on page 433.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies a Interest income and expense Interest income and expense for all financial instruments except for those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value other than debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with such debt securities issued are recognised in Interest income and Interest expense in the income statement using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability or groups of financial assets or financial liabilities and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
When calculating the effective interest rate, HSBC estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but not future credit losses.
The calculation includes all amounts paid or received by HSBC that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument, including transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
Interest on impaired financial assets is calculated by applying the original effective interest rate of the financial asset to the carrying amount as reduced by any allowance for impairment.
b Non interest income Fee income HSBC earns fee income from a diverse range of services provided to its customers.
Fee income is accounted for as follows: income earned on the execution of a significant act is recognised as revenue when the act is completed for example, fees arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of, a transaction for a third party, such as the arrangement for the acquisition of shares or other securities : income earned from the provision of services is recognised as revenue as the services are provided for example, asset management, portfolio and other management advisory and service fees : and income which forms an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument is recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate for example, certain loan commitment fees and recorded in Interest income Note 2a.
Net trading income Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading, together with related interest income, expense and dividends.
Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Interest income and expense and dividend income arising on these financial instruments are also included, except for debt securities issued and derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued.
Interest on these instruments is presented in Interest expense.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
This is the ex-dividend date for equity securities.
304 c Segment reporting HSBC is organised into five geographical regions, Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, North America and Latin America, and manages its business through four customer groups: Personal Financial Services: Commercial Banking, Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets: and Private Banking.
The main items reported in the Other segment are the income and expenses of wholesale insurance operations, certain property activities, unallocated investment activities including hsbc.
com, centrally held investment companies and HSBCs holding company and financing operations.
Segment income and expenses include transfers between geographical regions and transfers between customer groups.
These transfers are conducted on arms length terms and conditions.
d Determination of fair value All financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is normally the transaction price, i. e. the fair value of the consideration given or received.
In certain circumstances, however, the initial fair value may be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for liabilities issued.
When independent prices are not available, fair values are determined by using valuation techniques which refer to observable market data.
These include comparison with similar instruments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
For certain derivatives, fair values may be determined in whole or in part using valuation techniques based on assumptions that are not supported by prices from current market transactions or observable market data.
A number of factors such as bid-offer spread, credit profile and model uncertainty are taken into account, as appropriate, when fair values are calculated using valuation techniques.
If the fair value of a financial asset measured at fair value becomes negative, it is recorded as a financial liability until its fair value becomes positive, at which time it is recorded as a financial asset, or it is extinguished.
e Loans and advances to banks and customers Loans and advances to banks and customers include loans and advances originated by HSBC which are not classified either as held for trading or designated at fair value.
Loans and advances are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers.
They are derecognised when either borrowers repay their obligations, or the loans are sold or written off, or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred.
They are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
f Loan impairment Losses for impaired loans are recognised promptly when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred.
Impairment losses are calculated on individual loans and on loans assessed collectively.
Losses expected from future events, no matter how likely, are not recognised.
Individually assessed loans At each balance sheet date, HSBC assesses on a case-by-case basis whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired.
This procedure is applied to all accounts that are considered individually significant.
In determining impairment losses on these loans, the following factors are considered: HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer: the viability of the customers business model and their capability to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations: the amount and timing of expected receipts and recoveries: 305 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy: the extent of other creditors commitments ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and the likelihood of other creditors continuing to support the company: the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to which legal and insurance uncertainties are evident: the realisable value of security or other credit mitigants and likelihood of successful repossession: the likely deduction of any costs involved in recovery of amounts outstanding: the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make payments in, the currency of the loan if not denominated in local currency: and when available, the secondary market price of the debt.
Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan at its original effective interest rate, and comparing the resultant present value with the loans current carrying amount.
Any loss is charged in the income statement.
The carrying amount of impaired loans on the balance sheet is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
Collectively assessed loans Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two circumstances: to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment: and for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant.
Incurred but not yet identified impairment Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of loss has been specifically identified on an individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for the purpose of calculating an estimated collective loss.
This reflects impairment losses incurred at the balance sheet date which will only be individually identified in the future.
The collective impairment allowance is determined after taking into account: historical loss experience in portfolios of similar credit risk characteristics for example, by industry sector, loan grade or product : the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the establishment of an appropriate allowance against the individual loan: and managements experienced judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of inherent losses is likely to be greater or less than that suggested by historical experience.
The period between a loss occurring and its identification is estimated by local management for each identified portfolio.
Homogeneous groups of loans For homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, two alternative methods are used to calculate allowances on a portfolio basis: When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll rate methodology.
This methodology employs statistical analyses of historical trends of delinquency and default to estimate the likelihood that loans will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately prove irrecoverable.
The estimated loss is the difference between the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate of the portfolio, and the carrying amount of the portfolio.
Current economic conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to cover inherent loss.
In certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models also take into account behavioural and account management trends as revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
306 In other cases, when the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll rate methodology, HSBC adopts a formulaic approach which allocates progressively higher percentage loss rates the longer a customers loan is overdue.
Loss rates are calculated from the discounted expected future cash flows from a portfolio.
In normal circumstances, historical experience provides the most objective and relevant information from which to assess inherent loss within each portfolio.
In certain circumstances, historical loss experience provides less relevant information about the inherent loss in a given portfolio at the balance sheet date, for example, where there have been changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions, such that the most recent trends in the portfolio risk factors are not fully reflected in the statistical models.
In these circumstances, such risk factors are taken into account when calculating the appropriate level of impairment allowances by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss experience.
Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
Loan write-offs Loans and the related impairment allowance accounts are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery of these amounts and, for collateralised loans, when the proceeds from realising the security have been received.
Reversals of impairment If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan impairment allowance account accordingly.
The reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Assets acquired in exchange for loans Non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are recorded as assets held for sale and reported in Other assets.
The asset acquired is recorded at the lower of its fair value less costs to sell and the carrying amount of the loan net of impairment allowance at the date of exchange.
No depreciation is charged in respect of assets held for sale.
Any subsequent write-down of the acquired asset to fair value less costs to sell is recognised in the income statement, in Other operating income.
Any subsequent increase in the fair value less costs to sell, to the extent this does not exceed the cumulative write down, is also recognised in Other operating income, together with any realised gains or losses on disposal.
Renegotiated loans The impairment of personal loans is generally subject to collective assessment.
Personal loans whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered past due but are treated as new loans only after the minimum required number of payments required under the new arrangements has been received.
Loans subject to individual impairment assessment, whose terms have been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they remain impaired or should be considered past due.
g Trading assets and trading liabilities Treasury bills, debt securities, equity shares and short positions in securities are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, or they form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking.
These financial assets or financial liabilities are recognised on trade date, when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties to purchase or sell securities, and are normally derecognised when either sold assets or extinguished liabilities.
Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken to the income statement.
Subsequently, their fair values are remeasured, and all gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the income statement in Net trading income as they arise.
307 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 h Financial instruments designated at fair value Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out below, and are so designated by management.
HSBC may designate financial instruments at fair value when the designation: eliminates or significantly reduces valuation or recognition inconsistencies that would otherwise arise from measuring financial assets or financial liabilities, or recognising gains and losses on them, on different bases.
Under this criterion, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are: Long-term debt issues The interest payable on certain fixed rate long-term debt securities issued has been matched with the interest on receive fixed pay variable interest rate swaps as part of a documented interest rate risk management strategy.
An accounting mismatch would arise if the debt securities issued were accounted for at amortised cost, because the related derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in the fair value recognised in the income statement.
By designating the long-term debt at fair value, the movement in the fair value of the long-term debt will also be recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets and financial liabilities under investment contracts Liabilities to customers under linked contracts are determined based on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds, with changes recognised in the income statement.
Liabilities to customers under other types of investment contracts would be measured at amortised cost.
If no designation was made for the assets relating to the customer liabilities they would be classified as available-for-sale and the changes in fair value would be recorded directly in equity.
These financial instruments are managed on a fair value basis and management information is also prepared on this basis.
Designation at fair value of the financial assets and liabilities under investment contracts allows the changes in fair values to be recorded in the income statement and presented in the same line.
applies to groups of financial assets, financial liabilities or combinations thereof that are managed, and their performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and where information about the groups of financial instruments is reported to management on that basis.
Under this criterion, certain financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance contracts are the main class of financial instrument so designated.
HSBC has documented risk management and investment strategies designed to manage such assets at fair value, taking into consideration the relationship of assets to liabilities in a way that mitigates market risks.
Reports are provided to management on the fair value of the assets.
Fair value measurement is also consistent with the regulatory reporting requirements under the appropriate regulations for these insurance operations.
relates to financial instruments containing one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows resulting from those financial instruments, including certain debt issues and debt securities held.
The fair value designation, once made, is irrevocable.
Designated financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and are normally derecognised when sold assets or extinguished liabilities.
Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to the income statement.
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
The amount of change during the period, and cumulatively, in the fair value of designated financial liabilities and loans and advances that is attributable to changes in their credit risk is determined as the amount of change in the fair value that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk.
i Financial investments Treasury bills, debt securities and equity shares intended to be held on a continuing basis, other than those designated at fair value Note 2h, are classified as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity.
Financial investments are recognised on trade date, when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties to purchase securities, and are normally derecognised when either the securities are sold or the borrowers repay their obligations.
i Available-for-sale securities are initially measured at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in equity in the 308 Available-for-sale reserve Note 39 until the securities are either sold or impaired.
When available-forsale securities are sold, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement as Gains less losses from financial investments.
Interest income is recognised on available-for-sale securities using the effective interest rate method, calculated over the assets expected life.
Premiums and or discounts arising on the purchase of dated investment securities are included in the calculation of their effective interest rates.
Dividends are recognised in the income statement when the right to receive payment has been established.
At each balance sheet date an assessment is made of whether there is any objective evidence of impairment in the value of a financial asset or group of assets.
This usually arises when circumstances are such that an adverse effect on future cash flows from the asset or group of assets can be reliably estimated.
If an available-for-sale security is impaired, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the assets acquisition cost net of any principal repayments and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses are subject to contrasting treatments depending on the nature of the instrument concerned: if the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement: impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
ii Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that HSBC positively intends, and is able, to hold until maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses.
j Sale and repurchase agreements including stock lending and borrowing When securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price repos, they remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received.
Securities purchased under commitments to sell reverse repos are not recognised on the balance sheet and the consideration paid is recorded in Loans and advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers as appropriate.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and recognised over the life of the agreement.
Securities lending and borrowing transactions are generally secured, with collateral taking the form of securities or cash advanced or received.
The transfer of securities to counterparties is not normally reflected on the balance sheet.
Cash collateral advanced or received is recorded as an asset or a liability respectively.
Securities borrowed are not recognised on the balance sheet.
If they are sold on to third parties, an obligation to return the securities is recorded as a trading liability and measured at fair value, and any gains or losses are included in Net trading income.
k Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently remeasured, at fair value.
Fair values of exchangetraded derivatives are obtained from quoted market prices.
Fair values of over-the-counter derivatives are obtained using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models.
In the normal course of business, the fair value of a derivative on initial recognition is the transaction price that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received.
In certain circumstances, however, the fair value will be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, such as interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates.
When such evidence exists, HSBC recognises a trading gain or loss on inception of the derivative.
When unobservable market data have a significant impact on the valuation of derivatives, the entire initial difference in fair value indicated by the valuation model from the 309 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 transaction price is not recognised immediately in the income statement but is recognised over the life of the transaction on an appropriate basis, or when the inputs become observable, or the transaction matures or is closed out.
Derivatives may be embedded in other financial instruments, for example, a convertible bond with an embedded conversion option.
Embedded derivatives are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host contract: the terms of the embedded derivative are the same as those of a stand-alone derivative: and the combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive, or as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists, and the parties intend to settle the cash flows on a net basis.
The method of recognising fair value gains and losses depends on whether derivatives are held for trading or are designated as hedging instruments, and if the latter, the nature of the risks being hedged.
All gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
When derivatives are designated as hedges, HSBC classifies them as either: i hedges of the change in fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedges : ii hedges of the variability in highly probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecast transaction cash flow hedges : or iii hedges of net investments in a foreign operation net investment hedges.
Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives designated as hedging instruments in a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge provided certain criteria are met.
Hedge accounting At the inception of a hedging relationship, HSBC documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, its risk management objective and its strategy for undertaking the hedge.
HSBC also requires a documented assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether or not the hedging instruments, primarily derivatives, that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes attributable to the hedged risks in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
Interest on designated qualifying hedges is included in Net interest income.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or group thereof that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If a hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to maturity, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case, it is released to the income statement immediately.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity within the cash flow hedging reserve.
Any gain or loss in fair value relating to an ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity until the forecast transaction is eventually recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
310 Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
A gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised in equity: a gain or loss on the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement on the disposal of the foreign operation.
Hedge effectiveness testing To qualify for hedge accounting, HSBC requires that at the inception of the hedge and throughout its life, each hedge must be expected to be highly effective prospective effectiveness, and demonstrate actual effectiveness retrospective effectiveness on an ongoing basis.
The documentation of each hedging relationship sets out how the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed.
The method an HSBC entity adopts for assessing hedge effectiveness will depend on its risk management strategy.
For prospective effectiveness, the hedging instrument must be expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the period for which the hedge is designated.
For actual effectiveness to be achieved, the changes in fair value or cash flows must offset each other in the range of 80 per cent to 125 per cent.
Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement in Net trading income.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting All gains and losses from changes in the fair values of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
These gains and losses are reported in Net trading income, except where derivatives are managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value other than derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by the Group, in which case gains and losses are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
The interest on derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by the Group which are designated at fair value is recognised in Interest expense.
All other gains and losses on these derivatives are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
l Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired: or when HSBC has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, and either substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred: or substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been retained nor transferred but control is not retained.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
m Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
n Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures HSBC Holdings investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Reversals of impairment losses are recognised in the income statement if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount of the investment.
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method, initially stated at cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in HSBCs share of net assets.
311 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 Profits on transactions between HSBC and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of HSBCs interest in the respective associates or joint ventures.
Losses are also eliminated to the extent of HSBCs interest in the associates or joint ventures unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
o Goodwill and intangible assets i Goodwill arises on business combinations, including the acquisition of subsidiaries, and interests in joint ventures and associates, when the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair value of HSBCs share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
By contrast, if HSBCs interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of an acquired business is greater than the cost of acquisition, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Impairment testing is performed at least annually by comparing the present value of the expected future cash flows from a business with the carrying amount of its net assets, including attributable goodwill.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses which are charged to the income statement.
Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in joint ventures and associates is included in Interests in associates and joint ventures.
At the date of disposal of a business, attributable goodwill is included in HSBCs share of net assets in the calculation of the gain or loss on disposal.
ii Intangible assets include the value of in-force long-term insurance business, computer software, trade names, mortgage servicing rights, customer lists, core deposit relationships, credit card customer relationships and merchant or other loan relationships.
Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life, or are not yet ready for use, are tested for impairment annually.
This impairment test may be performed at any time during the year, provided it is performed at the same time every year.
An intangible asset recognised during the current period is tested before the end of the current year.
Intangible assets that have a finite useful life, except for the value of in-force long-term insurance business, are stated at cost less amortisation and accumulated impairment losses and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful life is the lower of legal duration and expected useful life.
The amortisation of mortgage servicing rights is included within Net fee income.
Equipment, fixtures and fittings including equipment on operating leases where HSBC is the lessor are stated at cost less any impairment losses and depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis to write off the assets over their useful lives, which run to a maximum of 35 years but are generally between five years and 20 years.
Property, plant and equipment is subject to an impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
HSBC holds certain properties as investments to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, or both.
Investment properties are included in the balance sheet at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement in the period of change.
Fair values are determined by independent professional valuers who apply recognised valuation techniques.
q Finance and operating leases Agreements which transfer to counterparties substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of assets, but not necessarily legal title, are classified as finance leases.
When HSBC is a lessor under finance leases the amounts due under the leases, after deduction of unearned charges, are included in Loans and advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers as appropriate.
Finance income receivable is recognised in Net interest income over the periods of the leases so as to give a constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases.
When HSBC is a lessee under finance leases, the leased assets are capitalised and included in Property, plant and equipment and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in Other liabilities.
A finance lease and its corresponding liability are recognised initially at the fair value of the asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance charges payable are recognised in Net interest income over the period of the lease based on the interest rate implicit in the lease so as to give a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
When acting as lessor, HSBC includes the assets subject to operating leases in Property, plant and equipment and accounts for them accordingly.
Impairment losses are recognised to the extent that residual values are not fully recoverable and the carrying value of the equipment is thereby impaired.
When HSBC is the lessee, leased assets are not recognised on the balance sheet.
Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the periods of the leases and are included in General and administrative expenses and Other operating income respectively.
r Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in shareholders equity, in which case it is recognised in shareholders equity.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year, calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when HSBC intends to settle on a net basis and the legal right to offset exists.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and when a legal right to offset exists in the entity.
Deferred tax relating to actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits is recognised directly in equity.
From 1 January 2005, deferred tax relating to fair value remeasurement of available-for-sale investments and 313 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 cash flow hedging instruments which are charged or credited directly to equity, is also credited or charged directly to equity and is subsequently recognised in the income statement when the deferred fair value gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
s Pension and other post-employment benefits HSBC operates a number of pension and other post-employment benefit plans throughout the world.
These plans include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and various other post-employment benefits such as post-employment health-care.
Payments to defined contribution plans and state-managed retirement benefit plans, where HSBCs obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution plan, are charged as an expense as they fall due.
The costs recognised for funding defined benefit plans are determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with annual actuarial valuations performed on each plan.
Actuarial differences that arise are recognised in shareholders equity and presented in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in the period in which they arise.
Past service costs are recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits have vested, and are otherwise recognised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits vest.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities less the expected return on plan assets, are charged to operating expenses.
The defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of defined benefit obligations adjusted for unrecognised past service costs and reduced by the fair value of plan assets.
Any net defined benefit surplus is limited to unrecognised past service costs plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The costs of providing other defined post-employment benefits, such as post-employment health-care, are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans.
t Equity compensation plans Shares awarded to an employee on joining HSBC that are made available immediately, with no vesting period attached to the award, are expensed immediately.
When an inducement is awarded to an employee on commencement of employment with HSBC, and the employee must complete a specified period of service before the inducement vests, the expense is spread over the period to vesting.
The expense of share options is recognised over the vesting period, and is determined by reference to the fair value of the options on grant date, and the effect of any non-market vesting conditions such as option lapses.
An option may lapse if, for example, an employee ceases to be employed by HSBC before the end of the vesting period.
Estimates of future such employee departures are taken into account when accruing the cost during the service period.
The expense relating to shares awarded as bonuses in respect of past service, by which an employee is required to complete a specified period of future service to be entitled to the award, is spread over the period of service rendered to the vesting date.
The compensation expense charged to the income statement is credited to the share-based payment reserve over the vesting period of the shares and options.
If awards of shares and options lapse during the vesting period due to an employee leaving employment with HSBC, the charge to date is reversed to the income statement.
If an award lapses due to an employee leaving a plan but not employment with HSBC or due to HSBC cancelling or modifying a plan, this is accounted for as an acceleration of vesting with full immediate recognition of the outstanding charge in the income statement.
If awards of shares or options lapse after they have fully vested, the amount in respect of the award charged to the share-based payment reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
u Foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of each of HSBCs entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC are presented in US dollars, which is the Groups presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 314 the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined.
Any exchange component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised directly in equity if the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised directly in equity.
Any exchange component of a gain or loss on a nonmonetary item is recognised directly in the income statement if the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement.
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets, including related goodwill where applicable, and liabilities of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars, are translated into the Groups presentation currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the reporting period.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening foreign currency net investments, and exchange differences arising from retranslation of the result for the reporting period from the average rate to the exchange rate prevailing at the period end, are recognised in equity in the foreign exchange reserve.
Exchange differences on a monetary item that is part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement of the separate financial statements.
In consolidated financial statements these exchange differences are recognised in the foreign exchange reserve in shareholders equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange differences relating thereto and previously recognised in reserves are recognised in the income statement.
v Provisions Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a current legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, are possible obligations that arise from past events whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence, or non-occurrence, of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of HSBC.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless they are remote.
w Financial guarantee contracts Liabilities under financial guarantees contracts which are not classified as insurance contracts, are recorded initially at their fair value, which is generally the fee received or receivable.
Subsequently, the financial guarantee liabilities are measured at the higher of the initial fair value, less cumulative amortisation, and the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligations.
HSBC Holdings has issued financial guarantees to other Group entities.
Where these guarantees have been classified as insurance contracts, they are measured consistently with insurance liabilities.
x Insurance contracts Through its insurance subsidiaries, HSBC issues contracts to customers that contain insurance risk, financial risk or a combination thereof.
A contract under which HSBC accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to compensate that party on the occurrence of a specified uncertain future event, is classified as an insurance contract.
An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but is accounted for as an insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant.
Insurance contracts are accounted for as follows: Premiums Gross insurance premiums for non-life insurance business are reported as income over the term of the insurance contracts based on the proportion of risks borne during the accounting period.
The unearned premium the proportion of the business underwritten in the accounting year relating to the period of risk after the balance sheet date is calculated on a daily or monthly pro rata basis.
315 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 2 and 3 Premiums for life insurance contracts are accounted for when receivable, except in unit-linked insurance contracts where premiums are accounted for when liabilities are established.
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the direct insurance contracts to which they relate.
Claims and reinsurance recoveries Gross insurance claims for non-life insurance contracts include paid claims and movements in outstanding claims liabilities.
Gross insurance claims for life insurance contracts reflect the total cost of claims arising during the year, including claim handling costs and any policyholder bonuses allocated in anticipation of a bonus declaration.
Claims arising during the year include maturities, surrenders and death claims.
Maturity claims are recognised when due for payment.
Surrenders are recognised when paid or at an earlier date on which, following notification, the policy ceases to be included within the calculation of the related insurance liabilities.
Death claims are recognised when notified.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Liabilities under insurance contracts Outstanding claims liabilities for non-life insurance contracts are based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not, together with related claimhandling costs and a reduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
Liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are made on an estimated basis, using appropriate statistical techniques.
Liabilities under non-linked life insurance contracts are calculated by each life insurance operation based on local actuarial principles.
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business The value placed on insurance contracts that are classified as long-term insurance business and are in force at the balance sheet date is recognised as an asset.
The present value of in-force long-term insurance business is determined by discounting future cash flows expected to emerge from business currently in force using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as future mortality, lapse rates and levels of expenses and a risk discount rate that reflects the risk premium attributable to the respective long-term insurance business.
Movements in the present value of in-force long-term insurance business are included in Other operating income on a gross of tax basis.
y Investment contracts Customer liabilities under non-linked and unit-linked investment contracts and the linked financial assets are designated at fair value, and the movements in fair value are recognised in the income statement in Net income from financial investments designated at fair value.
Premiums receivable and amounts withdrawn are accounted for as increases or decreases in the liability recorded in respect of investment contracts.
Liabilities under unit-linked investment contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
Investment management fees receivable are recognised in the income statement over the period of the provision of the investment management services, in Net fee income.
The incremental costs directly related to the acquisition of new investment contracts or renewing existing investment contracts are deferred and amortised over the period during which the investment management services are provided.
316 z Debt securities issued and deposits by customers and banks Financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and initially measured at fair value, which is normally the consideration received net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Subsequent measurement of financial liabilities, other than those measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial guarantees, is at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method to amortise the difference between proceeds net of directly attributable transaction costs and the redemption amount over the expected life of the debt.
aa Share capital Shares are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash or other financial assets.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
HSBC Holdings plc shares held by HSBC are recognised in Total shareholders equity as a deduction from retained earnings until they are cancelled.
When such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in Total shareholders equity, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and related income tax effects.
ab Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Such investments are normally those with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition, and include cash and balances at central banks, treasury bills and other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, items in the course of collection from or in transmission to other banks, and certificates of deposit.
3 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value includes: all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value, including liabilities under investment contracts: all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value: and interest income, interest expense and dividend income in respect of: financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value: and derivatives managed in conjunction with the above, except for interest expense arising on HSBCs issued debt securities, together with the interest element of derivatives managed in conjunction with them, which are recognised in Interest expense.
In 2006, HSBC recognised a US$388 million loss on changes in the fair value of these instruments arising from changes in HSBCs own credit risk 2005: loss US$70 million.
2 Income from unlisted investments at 31 December 2004 was US$3,521 million.
Comparative information has been restated accordingly.
Post-employment benefit plans HSBC pension plans HSBC operates some 166 pension plans throughout the world, covering 76 per cent of HSBCs employees, with a total pension cost of US$1,058 million 2005: US$1,007 million: 2004: US$1,111 million, of which US$668 million 2005: US$546 million: 2004: US$485 million relates to plans outside the UK.
Progressively, HSBC has been moving to defined contribution plans for all new employees.
The pension cost for defined contribution plans, which cover 35 per cent of HSBCs employees, was US$456 million 2005: US$389 million: 2004: US$351 million.
Both HSBCs and, where relevant and appropriate, the trustees long-term investment objectives for defined benefit plans are: to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the liability of the plans over the long-term: and to maximise returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk so as to control the long-term costs of the defined benefit plans.
Both HSBC and, where relevant and appropriate, the trustees, consider that the investment policy should be consistent with meeting their mutual overall long-term investment objectives.
In pursuit of these long-term objectives, an overall benchmark is established for the allocation of the defined benefit plan assets between asset classes.
In addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as stock market or property valuation indices and desired levels of out-performance where relevant.
This is intended to be reviewed at least triennially within 18 months of the date at which the actuarial valuation is made, or more frequently if circumstances or local legislation so require.
The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review.
The Groups defined benefit plans, which cover 41 per cent of HSBCs employees, are predominantly funded plans with assets which, in the case of most of the larger plans, are held in trust or similar funds separate from HSBC.
The plans are reviewed at least annually or in accordance with local practice and regulations by qualified actuaries.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligations and related current service costs vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they are situated.
The largest plan exists in the UK, where the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme covers employees of HSBC Bank plc and certain other employees of HSBC.
This plan comprises a funded defined benefit plan the principal plan which is closed, and a defined contribution plan which was established on 1 July 1996 for new employees.
In 2006, HSBC and the Trustee of the principal plan agreed to change the investment strategy in order to reduce the investment risk.
This involved switching from a largely equity-based strategy to a strategy largely based on holding bonds together with a more diverse range of investments.
At the same time the principal plan entered into swap arrangements 320 whereby the principal plan is committed to making LIBOR related interest payments in exchange for cash flows paid into the plan, based on a projection of the future benefit payments from the principal plan.
At 31 December 2006, significant progress had been made towards the new strategy and swap arrangements were in place.
The latest actuarial investigation of the principal plan was made at 31 December 2005, by C G Singer, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, of Watson Wyatt Limited.
At that date, the market value of the HSBC Bank UK Pension Schemes assets was US$18,072 million including assets relating to the defined benefit plan, the defined contribution plan, and additional voluntary contributions.
The market value of the plan assets represented 89 per cent of the amount expected to be required, on the basis of the assumptions adopted, to provide the benefits accrued to members after allowing for expected future increases in earnings, and the resulting deficit amounted to US$2,065 million.
The method adopted for this investigation was the projected unit method.
The expected cash flows from the plan were projected by reference to the Retail Price Index RPI swap break-even curve at 31 December 2005.
Salary increases were assumed to be 1 per cent per annum above RPI and inflationary pension increases, subject to a minimum of 0 per cent and a maximum of 5 per cent, were assumed to be in line with RPI.
The projected cash flows were discounted at the LIBOR swap curve at 31 December 2005 plus a margin for the expected return on the investment strategy of 110 basis points per annum.
The mortality experience of the plans pensioners over the three year period since the previous valuation was analysed and the mortality assumption set on the basis of this with allowances for medium cohort improvements on the PA92 series of tables from the valuation date.
In anticipation of the results of the 2005 investigation, on 22 December 2005 HSBC Bank plc made an additional contribution of US$1,746 million to the principal plan in order to reduce the deficit of the plan.
HSBC also decided to make ongoing contributions to the principal plan in respect of the accrual of benefits of defined benefit section members at the rate of 36 per cent of pensionable salaries from 1 January 2007, until the completion of the next actuarial valuation, due at 31 December 2008.
During 2006 HSBC paid contributions at the rate of 20 per cent of pensionable salaries.
A further 2 per cent of pensionable salaries is being paid over the period 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2014 to make good the difference in contributions during 2006.
As part of the 31 December 2005 valuation, calculations were also carried out as to the amount of assets that might be needed to meet the liabilities if the plan was discontinued and the members benefits bought out with an insurance company although in practice this may not be possible for a plan of this size or the Trustee continued to run the plan without the support of HSBC.
The amount required under this approach is estimated to be US$26,700 million as at 31 December 2005.
In estimating the solvency position for this purpose, a more prudent assumption about future mortality was made than for the assessment of the ongoing position and it was assumed that the Trustee would alter the investment strategy to be an appropriately matched portfolio of cash and interest and inflation swaps.
An explicit allowance for expenses was also included.
321 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 7 The benefits payable from the defined benefit plan are expected to be as shown in the chart below: Benefit payments US$m In Hong Kong, the HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme covers employees 2,000 of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 1,8 0 0 Corporation and certain other employees of HSBC.
1,6 0 0 The plan comprises a funded defined benefit plan 1,4 0 0 1,2 0 0 which provides a lump sum on retirement but which 1,0 0 0 is now closed to new members and a defined 800 contribution plan.
The latter was established on 1 600 January 1999 for new employees.
The latest 400 valuation of the defined benefit plan was made at 31 200 December 2004 and was performed by E Chiu, 0 Fellow of the Society of Actuaries of the United 2006 2022 2038 2054 2070 2086 States of America, of HSBC Life International HSBC Holdings.
At that date, the market value of the defined benefit plans assets was US$942 million.
On an ongoing basis, the actuarial value of the plans assets represented 115 per cent of the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to US$121 million.
On a wind-up basis, the actuarial value of the plans assets represented 128 per cent of the members vested benefits, based on current salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to US$206 million.
The actuarial method used was the projected unit credit method and the main assumptions used in this valuation were a discount rate of 4 per cent per annum and long-term salary increases of 3 per cent per annum with short-term deviation from 2005 to 2008.
The HSBC North America U. S. Retirement Income Plan was formed with effect from the close of business on 31 December 2004 by the merger of the HSBC Bank USA Pension Plan and the Household International Retirement Income Plan.
This plan covers employees of HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance, and certain other employees of HSBC.
It comprises a final average pay plan now closed to new participants and a cash balance plan.
All new employees participate in the cash balance plan.
The first full actuarial valuation of the merged plan was made at 1 January 2005 by Pedro Nebres, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries and Dan Kutliroff, Enrolled Actuary, of Mercer Human Resource Consulting.
Both are members of the American Academy of Actuaries.
At that date, the market value of the merged plans assets was US$2,305 million.
The actuarial value of the assets represented 137 per cent of the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
The resulting surplus amounted to US$622 million.
The method employed for this valuation was the projected unit credit method and the main assumptions used were a discount rate of 8 per cent per annum and average salary increases of 3.75 per cent per annum.
The Internal Revenue Service granted formal approval for changes in funding method due to the merger of pension plans on 23 August 2006.
The HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme, and the HSBC North America U. S. Retirement Income Plan cover 37 per cent of HSBCs employees.
HSBC healthcare benefits plans HSBC also provides post-employment healthcare benefits under plans in the UK, the US, Canada, Mexico, France and Brazil, the majority of which are unfunded.
Post-employment healthcare benefits plans are accounted for in the same manner as defined benefit pension plans.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligation and related current service cost vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they are situated.
Total healthcare cost was US$62 million 2005: US$58 million: 2004: US$65 million.
322 Post-employment defined benefit plans principal actuarial financial assumptions The principal actuarial financial assumptions used to calculate the Groups obligations under its defined benefit pension and post-employment healthcare plans at 31 December 2006, were as follows.
The principal actuarial financial assumptions used to calculate the Groups obligations under its defined benefit pension and post-employment healthcare plans at 31 December 2005, were as follows.
2 The 2005 and 2004 rate of pay increase assumptions disclosed have been increased from 3.2 per cent to 3.7 per cent to reflect an agerelated promotional salary scale that was included in the obligation calculation but not in the disclosed assumption.
HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans local actuaries, on the basis of current average yields of high quality AA rated or equivalent debt instruments, with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations.
The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on historical market returns adjusted for additional factors such as the current rate of inflation and interest rates.
Mortality assumptions are increasingly significant in measuring the Groups obligations under its defined benefit pension and post-employment healthcare plans, particularly given the maturity of the plans.
The mortality rates used are sensitive to experience from the plan member profile.
Additionally, the fair value of plan assets include derivatives entered into with the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme with a negative fair value of US$273 million at 31 December 2006 2005: nil.
The principal plan holds a diversified portfolio of investments to meet future cash flow liabilities arising from accrued benefits as they fall due to be paid.
The Trustee of the principal plan is required to produce a written statement of investment principles SIP.
The SIP sets out the principles governing how decisions about investments are made.
HSBC expects to make US$1,229 million of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2007.
203 1,623 78 506 3 Losses from changes in actuarial assumptions............. 570 44 2,038 393 1,357 243 Total net actuarial gains losses.................................... 30 8 345 428 450 282 Actuarial gains and losses represent experience adjustments on plan assets and liabilities as well as adjustments arising from changes in actuarial assumptions.
Total cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity at 31 December 2006 were US$1,543 million 2005: US$1,505 million.
The total effect of the limit on plan surpluses recognised within actuarial losses in equity during 2006 was a US$2 million loss 2005: US$4 million gain.
HSBC expects to make US$19 million of contributions to post-employment healthcare benefit plans during 2007.
Total cumulative net actuarial losses recognised in equity at 31 December 2006 were US$76 million 2005: US$38 million.
The actuarial assumptions of the healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts recognised.
A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects on amounts recognised in 2006: 1% increase 1% decrease US$m US$m Increase decrease of the aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost........................... 8 6 Increase decrease of defined benefit obligation............................................................................. 103 111 HSBC Holdings Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings employees in 2006 amounted to US$193 million 2005: US$166 million.
The average number of persons employed by HSBC Holdings during 2006 was 505 2005: 433.
Employees of HSBC Holdings who are members of defined benefit pension plans are principally members of either the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme or the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme.
There is no contractual or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost to HSBC Holdings, which is recognised in the consolidated accounts of HSBC in the note above.
HSBC Holdings pays contributions to plans in accordance with schedules determined by the Trustees following consultation with qualified actuaries.
The provision at 31 December 2006 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to former Directors amounted to US$17,759,454 2005: US$16,458,975.
During the year, aggregate contributions to pension schemes in respect of Directors were US$889,241 2005: US$4,819,759, including US$395,740 2005: US$3,304,081 arising from a Directors waiver of bonus.
Discretionary bonuses for Directors are based on a combination of individual and corporate performance and are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Details of Directors remuneration, share options and conditional 330 awards under the Restricted Share Plan 2000 and The HSBC Share Plan are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 280 to 289.
8 Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration in relation to statutory audit amounted to US$44.7 million 2005: US$47.0 million: 2004: US$41.7 million.
Other accounting firms have been paid a total of US$8.3 million 2005: US$16.7 million: 2004: US$6.6 million for work on this project.
No fees were payable by HSBC to KPMG for the following types of services: internal audit services, valuation and actuarial services, services related to litigation, and services related to recruitment and remuneration.
Audit fees for HSBC Holdings statutory audit are fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
They exclude amounts payable for the statutory audit of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries which have been included in Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to HSBC.
The following is a description of the types of services included in Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to HSBC: Audit related services Audit of HSBCs subsidiaries pursuant to legislation includes fees payable to KPMG for the statutory audit of HSBCs subsidiaries.
Other services pursuant to legislation include services for assurance and other services that are in relation to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim reviews.
Tax services Tax services include tax compliance services and tax advisory services.
Other services Services relating to information technology include advice on IT security and business continuity and performing agreed upon IT testing procedures.
Services related to corporate finance transactions include fees payable to KPMG for transaction-related work, including US debt issuances.
All other services include other assurance and advisory services such as translation services, ad-hoc accounting advice and review of financial models.
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of US$2.1 million 2005: US$4.5 million: 2004: US$4.0 million by parties other than HSBC but where HSBC is connected with the contracting party and therefore may be involved in appointing KPMG.
These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns which borrow from HSBC.
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for HSBC Group.
9 Share-based payments During 2006, US$854 million was charged to the income statement in respect of equity-settled share-based payment transactions 2005: US$540 million: 2004: US$450 million.
This expense was based on the fair value of the sharebased payment transactions when contracted.
All of the expense arose under employee share awards made within HSBCs reward structures.
Calculation of fair values Fair values of share options awards, measured at the date of grant of the option award, are calculated using a binomial lattice model methodology that is based on the underlying assumptions of the Black-Scholes model.
When modelling options awards with vesting dependent on HSBCs Total Shareholder Return over a period, these performance targets are incorporated into the model using Monte Carlo simulation.
The expected life of options depends on the behaviour of option holders, which is incorporated into the option model consistent with historic observable data.
The fair values calculated are inherently subjective and uncertain due to the assumptions made and the limitations of the model used.
The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted were as follows: 1-year 3-year 5-year HSBC  Related Related Related Share The Group Share Share Option Share Option Option HSBC Option Plan Plan Plans Plans Share Plan 2006 1 Risk-free interest rate %............... 4.7 4.8 4.7 2 Expected life years........................ 1 3 5 3 Expected volatility %.................... 17 17 17 Share price at grant date.............. 9.54 9.54 9.54 2005 1 Risk-free interest rate %............... 4.6 4.3 4.3 4.3 2 Expected life years........................ 7.8 3 5 5 3 Expected volatility %.................... 20 20 20 20 Share price at grant date.............. 8.30 8.68 8.68 8.37 1 The risk-free rate was determined from the UK gilts yield curve for the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan awards and UK Savings-Related Share Option Plans.
A similar yield curve was used for the International Savings-Related Share Option Plans.
2 Expected life is not a single input parameter but a function of various behavioural assumptions.
3 Expected volatility is estimated by considering both historic average share price volatility and implied volatility derived from traded options over HSBC shares of similar maturity to those of the employee options.
332 Expected dividends have been incorporated into the valuation model for options and shares, where applicable.
The expected US dollar denominated dividend growth was determined to be 9 per cent for the first year 2005: 12 per cent and 8 per cent thereafter 2005: 8 per cent, consistent with consensus analyst forecasts.
The HSBC Share Plan The HSBC Share Plan was adopted by HSBC Holdings in 2005.
Under this Plan Performance Share awards, Restricted Share awards and Share Option awards may be made.
The aim of The HSBC Share Plan is to align the interests of executives to the creation of shareholder value and recognise individual performance and potential.
Awards are also made under this plan for recruitment and retention purposes.
Performance Share awards Performance Share awards are made to executive Directors and other senior executives taking into account individual performance in the prior year.
Performance Share awards are divided into two equal parts for testing attainment against pre-determined benchmarking.
One half of the award is subject to a Total Shareholder Return measure, based on HSBCs ranking against a comparator group of 28 major banks.
The other half of the award is subject to an earnings per share target.
For each element of the award, shares would be released to the employee according to a sliding scale from 30 to 100 per cent of the award, dependent upon the scale of achievement against the benchmarks and provided that the minimum criteria for each performance measure has been met.
Shares will be released after three years to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied.
The weighted average fair value of shares awarded by HSBC for Performance Share awards in 2006 was US$9.72 2005: US$9.02.
Restricted Share awards Restricted Share awards are made to other employees based on performance, potential and retention requirements, for recruitment or as part of deferral of annual bonus.
The awards vest between one and three years from date of award.
The weighted average fair value of shares awarded by HSBC for Restricted Share Awards in 2006 was US$17.65 2005: US$16.66.
333 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 9 Share options Share options were granted in 2005 under the Rules of The HSBC Share Plan to employees in France based on their performance in the previous year.
The share options are subject to the corporate performance condition, which consists of an absolute earnings per share measure and a Total Shareholder Return measure, based on HSBC Holdings ranking against a comparator group of 28 major banks.
The options vest after three years and are exercisable up to the tenth anniversary of the date of grant, after which they will lapse.
No options were awarded in 2006.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the balance sheet date is 3.3 years 2005: 4.3 years.
None of these options are exercisable at the balance sheet date.
Savings-related share option plans The savings-related share option plans invite eligible employees to enter into savings contracts to save up to 250 per month or equivalent in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars or euros, with the option to use the savings to acquire shares.
The aim of the plan is to align the interests of all employees to the creation of shareholder value.
The options are exercisable within three months following the first anniversary of the commencement of a one-year savings contract or within six months following either the third or the fifth anniversary of the commencement of three-year or fiveyear savings contracts.
The exercise price is set at a 20 per cent 2005: 20 per cent discount to the market value at the date of grant except for the one-year options granted under the US sub-plan where a 15 per cent discount is applied.
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year as at the date of grant was US$3.45 2005: US$3.76.
334 HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 Performance Share awards made under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 the Restricted Share Plan Performance Share awards under the Restricted Share Plan were granted to Senior Executives from 2000 to 2004.
The aim of the plan was to align the interests of executives to the creation of shareholder value.
This was achieved by setting certain Total Shareholder Return targets against a peer group of major banks which must normally be attained in order for the awards to vest.
No further awards will be made under this Plan following adoption of The HSBC Share Plan in 2005 other than from reinvested scrip dividends.
The weighted average remaining vesting period as at 31 December 2006 was 1.53 years 2005: 2.14 years.
Restricted share awards made under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 Restricted shares were awarded to eligible employees after taking into account the employees performance in the prior year, potential and retention requirements.
Restricted shares are also awarded as part deferral of annual bonus or for recruitment purposes.
Shares are awarded without corporate performance conditions and are generally released to employees between one and three years after the award was made, providing the employees have remained continuously employed by HSBC for this period.
The weighted average fair value of shares awarded by HSBC for Restricted Share Awards in 2005 was US$15.88.
The weighted average remaining vesting period as at 31 December 2006 was 0.84 years 2005: 1.09 years.
HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan The HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan was a long-term incentive plan under which certain HSBC employees between 2000 and 2005 were awarded share options.
The aim of the plan was to align the interests of those higher performing employees to the creation of shareholder value.
This was achieved by setting certain Total Shareholder Return targets which must normally be attained in order for the awards to vest.
Options were granted at market value and are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant, subject to vesting conditions.
Any options granted after May 2005 will be made under the Rules of The HSBC Share Plan.
The weighted average fair value of options granted in 2006 was US$3.09.
No options were granted in 2006.
After consideration of the performance and shareholder returns over the period between 2003 and 2005, the Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion to waive the Total Shareholder Return performance condition in respect of the awards made under this plan in 2003.
As a result, a charge of US$135 million was recognised in 2006, reflecting the incremental fair value granted measured at the date the performance condition was waived.
This was measured using a binomial lattice model methodology that is based on the underlying assumptions of the Black-Scholes model, as described above in Calculation of fair values.
A risk-free interest rate of 4.3 per cent was used, with all other inputs to the model consistent with those used to value the other share options and awards made during 2006.
HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme The HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme was a long-term incentive scheme under which certain senior HSBC employees were awarded share options before the adoption of the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan in 2000.
The aim of the plan was to align the interests of those higher performing senior employees to the creation of shareholder value.
This was achieved by setting certain Total Shareholder Return targets to be attained in order for the awards to vest.
Options were granted at market value and were exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant, subject to vesting conditions.
336 The weighted average fair value of options as at the last date of grant during 2000 was US$5.26.
The weighted average share price at the date the share options were exercised was US$17.65 2005: US$16.18.
The number of options, weighted average exercise price and the weighted average remaining contractual life for options outstanding at the balance sheet date, analysed by exercise price range, were as follows: 2006 2005 Exercise price range................................................. 2.17 6.00 6.01 7.87 2.17 6.00 6.01 7.87 252 22,234 Number 000s............................................................. 781 31,474 Weighted average exercise price............................ 5.02 6.84 4.57 6.83 Weighted average remaining contractual life years... 0.97 3.64 2.64 Of which exercisable: Number 000s........................................................ 252 22.234 781 31,474 Weighted average exercise price........................ 5.02 6.84 4.57 6.83 HSBC France and subsidiary company plans Before its acquisition by HSBC in 2000, HSBC France and certain of its subsidiaries operated employee share plans under which share options were granted over their respective shares.
Options over HSBC France shares granted between 1994 and 1999 vested upon announcement of HSBCs intent to acquire HSBC France and were therefore included in the valuation of HSBC France.
HSBC France granted 909,000 options in 2000 after the public announcement of the acquisition and these options did not vest as a result of the change in control.
The options were subject to continued employment and vested on 1 January 2002.
The HSBC France shares obtained on exercise of the options are exchangeable for HSBCs ordinary shares of US$0.50 each in the same ratio as the Exchange Offer for Crdit Commercial fide France shares 13 ordinary shares of US$0.50 for each HSBC France share.
Options were granted at market value and are exercisable within 10 years of the date of grant.
The weighted average share price at the date the share options were exercised was US$17.64 2005: US$16.18.
At the date of its acquisition in 2000, certain of HSBC Frances subsidiary companies also operated employee share option plans under which options could be granted over their respective shares.
On exercise of certain of these options, the subsidiary shares are exchanged for HSBC ordinary shares.
The total number of HSBC ordinary shares exchanged under such arrangements in 2006 was 356,491 2005: 821,466.
HSBC Finance Corporation Upon acquisition, HSBC Finance Corporation share options previously granted were converted to share options over HSBC ordinary shares of US$0.50 each at a rate of 2.675 HSBC share options the same ratio as the Exchange Offer for HSBC Finance Corporation for each HSBC Finance Corporation share option.
Options granted under HSBC Finance Corporations own share option schemes prior to the announcement of the acquisition by HSBC in November 2002 vested as options over HSBC shares upon acquisition by HSBC.
Options granted after the announcement of the acquisition in November 2002 but prior to its completion on 28 March 2003, generally vest equally over 4 years and expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Overseas tax included Hong Kong profits tax of US$751 million 2005: US$639 million: 2004: US$539 million.
Subsidiaries in Hong Kong provided for Hong Kong profits tax at the rate of 17.5 per cent 2005: 17.5 per cent: 2004: 17.5 per cent on the profits for the year assessable in Hong Kong.
Other overseas subsidiaries and overseas branches provided for taxation at the appropriate rates in the countries in which they operate.
338 In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, the aggregate amount of current and deferred tax, relating to items that are taken directly to equity, was a US$44 million reduction in equity 2005: US$437 million: 2004: US$319 million both increases in equity.
The fourth interim dividend will be payable on 10 May 2007 to shareholders on the Register at the close of business on 23 March 2007.
No liability is recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth interim dividend.
12 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share was calculated by dividing the earnings of US$15,699 million 2005: US$15,060 million: 2004: US$12,918 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares, excluding own shares held, outstanding in 2006 of 11,210 million 2005: 11,038 million: 2004: 10,907 million.
2006 2005 2004 US$m US$m US$m Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company.............................. 15,789 15,081 12,918 Dividend payable on preference shares classified as equity........................... 90 21 Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company.......... 15,699 15,060 12,918 Diluted earnings per ordinary share was calculated by dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares including share options outstanding not yet exercised, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on ordinary conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares in 2006 of 11,320 million 2005: 11,171 million: 2004: 11,054 million.
13 Segment analysis In the following segmental analysis, the benefit of shareholders funds impacts the analysis only to the extent that these funds are actually allocated to businesses in the segment by way of intra-HSBC capital and funding structures.
By geographical region Geographical information is classified by the location of the principal operations of the subsidiary undertaking, or, for The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East, HSBC Finance and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds.
Due to the nature of HSBCs structure, the analysis of profits shown below includes intra-HSBC items between geographical regions with the elimination shown in a separate column.
The Rest of Asia-Pacific geographical segment includes the Middle East, India and Australasia.
Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of the actual recharges made.
During 2006, HSBC changed how certain of its geographical segments are managed and their performance assessed.
As a result, a new segment, Latin America and the Carribean Latin America, was formed from the Groups businesses previously reported under South America, and those in Mexico and Panama which had been previously reported as part of the North America geographical segment.
343 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 13 By customer group HSBCs operations include a number of shared support services and head office functions.
The costs of these functions are allocated to customer groups, where appropriate, on a systematic and consistent basis.
In addition, a number of income and expense items include the effect of financial transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business between customer groups co-operating within the integrated HSBC Group.
The following analysis includes inter-segment amounts within each customer group with the elimination shown in a separate column.
344 Year ended 31 December 2005 Corporate, Personal Investment IntraFinancial Commercial Banking Private HSBC Services Banking & Markets Banking Other items Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income expense.... 23,351 6,310 3,001 848 472 1,704 31,334 Net fee income............................ 7,313 2,876 2,967 1,080 220 14,456 Trading income expense excluding net interest income.
14 Analysis of financial assets and liabilities by measurement basis Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on an ongoing basis either at fair value or at amortised cost.
The summary of significant accounting policies in Note 2 describes how the classes of financial instruments are measured, and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised.
The following table analyses the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities by category as defined in IAS 39 and by balance sheet heading.
Derivatives enable users to increase, reduce or alter exposure to credit or market risks.
HSBC makes markets in derivatives for its customers and uses derivatives to manage its exposure to credit and market risks.
Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance sheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities.
Asset values represent the cost to HSBC of replacing all transactions with a fair value in HSBCs favour assuming that all 352 HSBCs relevant counterparties default at the same time, and that transactions can be replaced instantaneously.
Liability values represent the cost to HSBCs counterparties of replacing all their transactions with HSBC with a fair value in their favour if HSBC were to default.
Derivative assets and liabilities on different transactions are only set off if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a net basis.
Use of derivatives HSBC transacts derivatives for three primary purposes: to create risk management solutions for clients, for proprietary trading purposes, and to manage and hedge HSBCs own risks.
Derivatives except for derivatives which are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined in IAS 39 are held for trading.
The held for trading classification includes two types of derivatives: those used in sales and trading activities, and those used for risk management purposes but which for various reasons do not meet the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting.
The second category includes derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value.
These activities are described more fully below.
HSBCs derivative activities give rise to significant open positions in portfolios of derivatives.
These positions are managed constantly to ensure that they remain within acceptable risk levels, with matching deals being utilised to achieve this where necessary.
When entering into derivative transactions, HSBC employs the same credit risk management procedures to assess and approve potential credit exposures that are used for traditional lending.
Trading derivatives Most of HSBCs derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities.
Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks.
Trading activities in derivatives are entered into principally for the purpose of generating profits from short-term fluctuations in price or margin.
Positions may be traded actively or be held over a period of time to benefit from expected changes in exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices or other market parameters.
Trading includes market-making, positioning and arbitrage activities.
Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenues based on spread and volume: positioning means managing market risk positions in the expectation of benefiting from favourable movements in prices, rates or indices: arbitrage involves identifying and profiting from price differentials between markets and products.
As mentioned above, other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives, ineffective hedging derivatives and the components of hedging derivatives that are excluded from assessing hedge effectiveness.
Non-qualifying hedging derivatives are entered into for risk management purposes but do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting.
These include derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value.
Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are reported in Net trading income, except for derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value, where gains and losses are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value, together with the gains and losses on the hedged items.
Changes in the fair values of trading derivatives are inclusive of contractual interest.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value are included in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value inclusive of contractual interest unless the derivatives are managed with debt securities in issue, in which case the contractual interest is shown in interest payable with the interest payable on the issued debt.
Substantially all of HSBC Holdings derivatives entered into with HSBC undertakings are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities designated at fair value.
This enables HSBC to optimise the overall cost to the Group of accessing debt capital markets, and to mitigate the market risk which would otherwise arise from structural imbalances in the maturity and other profiles of its assets and liabilities.
The accounting treatment of hedge transactions varies according to the nature of the instrument hedged and the type of hedge transactions.
Derivatives may qualify as hedges for accounting purposes if they are fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, or investment hedges.
These are described under the relevant headings below: Contract amounts of derivatives held for hedging purposes by product type At 31 December 2006 At 31 December 2005 Cash flow Fair value Cash flow Fair value hedge hedge hedge hedge US$m US$m US$m US$m Foreign exchange.......................................................... 21,765 2,985 16,940 2,699 Interest rate................................................................... 201,635 24,279 174,875 19,745 Equities.......................................................................... 30 223,400 27,294 191,815 22,444 With respect to exchange rate and interest rate contracts, the notional or contractual amounts of these instruments indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date: they do not represent amounts at risk.
Fair value hedges HSBCs fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate swaps that are used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate long-term financial instruments due to movements in market interest rates.
For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the derivative and in the fair value of the item in relation to the risk being hedged are recognised in income.
If the hedge relationship is terminated, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the item and is amortised to income as a yield adjustment over the remainder of the hedging period.
354 The fair values of outstanding derivatives designated as fair value hedges at 31 December 2006 were assets of US$201 million 2005: US$149 million and liabilities of US$315 million 2005: US$471 million.
Gains or losses arising from fair value hedges 2006 2005 US$m US$m Gains losses : on hedging instruments............................................................................................................. 8 81 on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk................................................................. 8 67 16 14 Cash flow hedges HSBCs cash flow hedges consist principally of interest rate and cross-currency swaps that are used to protect against exposures to variability in future interest cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities which bear interest at variable rates or which are expected to be re-funded or reinvested in the future.
The amounts and timing of future cash flows, representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and liabilities on the basis of their contractual terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and defaults.
The aggregate principal balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios over time form the basis for identifying gains and losses on the effective portions of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions.
Gains and losses are initially recognised directly in equity, in the cash flow hedging reserve, and are transferred to the income statement when the forecast cash flows affect the income statement.
At 31 December 2006, the fair values of outstanding derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions were assets of US$3,749 million 2005: US$3,528 million and liabilities of US$1,364 million 2005: US$1,062 million.
The gains and losses on ineffective portions of such derivatives are recognised immediately in the income statement.
During the year to 31 December 2006, a loss of US$122 million 2005: US$96 million was recognised due to hedge ineffectiveness.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations HSBCs consolidated balance sheet is affected by exchange differences between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies of subsidiaries.
HSBC hedges structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited circumstances.
Hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts which are accounted for as hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, or by financing with borrowings in the same currencies as the functional currencies involved.
355 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 17 and 18 At 31 December 2006, the fair values of outstanding financial instruments designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations were liabilities of US$254 million 2005: US$114 million.
The ineffectiveness recognised in Net trading income in the year ended 31 December 2006 that arose from hedges in foreign operations was nil 2005: nil.
Sensitivity of fair values to changing significant assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives Fair values of certain derivatives recognised in the financial statements may be determined in whole or in part using valuation techniques based on assumptions that are not supported by prices from current market transactions or observable market data.
In these instances, the net fair value recorded in the financial statements is the sum of three components: the value given by application of a valuation model, based upon HSBCs best estimate of the most appropriate model inputs: any fair value adjustments to account for market features not included within the valuation model for example, bid-mid spreads, counterparty credit spreads and or market data uncertainty : and inception profit, or an unamortised element thereof, not recognised immediately in the income statement in accordance with Note 2 k. As the valuation models are based upon assumptions, changing the assumptions changes the resultant estimate of fair value.
HSBC performs various sensitivity analyses on its valuation assumptions.
The potential effect of using reasonably possible alternative assumptions in valuation models has been quantified as a reduction in assets of approximately US$72 million 2005: US$77 million using less favourable assumptions, and an increase in assets of approximately US$69 million 2005: US$73 million using more favourable assumptions.
The ranges of reasonably possible alternative assumptions are established by application of professional judgement to an analysis of the data available to support each assumption.
The total amount of the change in fair value estimated using a valuation technique that was recognised in the year ended 31 December 2006 was a loss of US$195 million 2005: US$129 million.
The fair value of these was US$86,596 million 2005: US$68,933 million.
Included within listed investments were US$1,179 million 2005: US$1,246 million of investments listed in Hong Kong.
The weighted average yield for each range of maturities in the above table is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 31 December 2006 by the book amount of available-for-sale debt securities at that date.
The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives.
358 19 Securitisations and other structured transactions HSBC enters into transactions in the normal course of business by which it transfers recognised financial assets directly to third parties or to special purpose entities.
These transfers may give rise to the full or partial derecognition of the financial assets concerned.
Full derecognition occurs when HSBC transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the right but assumes an obligation to pass on the cash flows from the asset, and transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
The risks include credit, interest rate, currency, prepayment and other price risks.
Partial derecognition occurs when HSBC sells or otherwise transfers financial assets in such a way that some but not substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred but control is retained.
These financial assets are recognised on the balance sheet to the extent of HSBCs continuing involvement.
The majority of financial assets that do not qualify for derecognition are i debt securities held by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements or ii equity securities lent under securities lending agreements.
The following table analyses the carrying amount of financial assets that did not qualify for derecognition during 2006 and 2005, and their associated financial liabilities: 2006 2005 Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying amount of amount of amount of amount of transferred associated transferred associated 1 1 assets liabilities assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Nature of transaction Repurchase agreements................................................ 67,558 66,127 62,663 62,880 Securities lending agreements...................................... 12,908 12,469 4,138 4,281 80,466 78,596 66,801 67,161 1 2005 amounts for repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements have been reclassified to ensure a consistent presentation with 2006 balances for this disclosure.
A small proportion of financial assets that do not qualify for derecognition relate to loans, credit cards, debt securities and trade receivables that have been securitised under arrangements by which HSBC retains a continuing involvement in such transferred assets.
Continuing involvement may entail retaining the rights to future cash flows arising from the assets after investors have received their contractual terms for example, interest rate strips : providing subordinated interest: liquidity support: continuing to service the underlying asset: or entering into derivative transactions with the securitisation vehicles.
As such, HSBC continues to be exposed to risks associated with these transactions.
The rights and obligations that HSBC retains from its continuing involvement in securitisations are initially recorded as an allocation of the fair value of the financial asset between the part that is derecognised and the part that continues to be recognised on the date of transfer.
2 LP 7,8 Montagu III LP 9 Ortigas & Company LP 7,8 Private Equity Portfolio Investment LP Inc 1 Peoples Republic of China.
2 Issued equity capital is less than HK$1 million.
3 Investment held through Hang Seng Bank Limited, a 62.14 per cent owned subsidiary of HSBC.
4 Industrial Bank Company Limited listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange on 5 February 2007.
5 Issued equity capital is less than US$1 million.
Address of principal place of business is c o Walkers SPV Limited, Walker House, 87 Mary Street, PO Box 908GT, George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands.
7 Limited partnership where the group owns more than 50 per cent but does not have control due to the limitations within these types of entities.
Address of principal place of business is 68 Upper Thames Street, London EC4V 3PE.
Address of principal place of business is 9 F Ortigas Building, Ortigas Avenue, Pasig City, Philippines.
All the above investments in associates are owned by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings.
On 6 February 2006, HSBC disposed of its 21.16 per cent shareholding in the Cyprus Popular Bank Limited trading as Laiki Group.
HSBC had US$4,747 million 2005: US$4,317 million of investments in associates and joint ventures listed in Hong Kong.
For the year ended 31 December 2006, HSBCs share of associates and joint ventures tax on profit was US$279 million 2005: US$225 million, which is included within share of profit in associates and joint ventures in the income statement.
No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable.
HSBCs 15.98 per cent investment in Industrial Bank Company Limited was equity accounted with effect from May 2004, reflecting HSBCs significant influence over this associate.
HSBCs significant influence was established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors, and in accordance with the Technical Support and Assistance Agreements, HSBC is assisting in the development of financial and operating policies.
HSBCs 19.9 per cent investment in Ping An Insurance Group Company of China, Limited was equity accounted with effect from 31 August 2005, reflecting HSBCs significant influence over this associate.
HSBCs significant influence was established as a result of the acquisition of an additional participation of 9.91 per cent on 31 August 2005, for a consideration of US$1,039 million.
HSBCs significant influence on Bank of Communications Co. Limited was established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors, and in accordance with the Technical Support and Assistance Agreements, HSBC is assisting in the development of financial and operating policies and a number of staff have been seconded to assist in this process.
The statutory accounting reference date of Bank of Communications Co. Limited, Ping An Insurance Group Company of China, Limited and Industrial Bank Company Limited is 31 December.
For the year ended 31 December 2006, these companies were included on the basis of financial statements made up for the twelve months to 30 September 2006, taking into account changes in the subsequent period from 1 October 2006 to 31 December 2006 that would have materially affected their results.
HSBC also has a 100 per cent interest in the issued preferred stock less than US$1 million of Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. HSBC has a 40 per cent economic interest in Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. by virtue of the joint agreement under which HSBCs equity capital and preferred stock interests are being held.
HSBC acquired 19.9 per cent of Financiera Independencia S. A. fide C. V. on 20 June 2006.
The investment was equity accounted from that date, reflecting HSBCs significant influence over this associate.
Principal interests in joint ventures At 31 December 2006 HSBCs interest in Issued Country of Principal equity equity incorporation activity capital capital Investment HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited......................................... Saudi Arabia Banking 60% SR50m HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited has been established as a joint venture between HSBC and The Saudi British Bank, operating from July 2006.
The ownership of HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited is split between HSBC, with 60 per cent, and The Saudi British Bank, with 40 per cent.
The strategic financial and operating decisions of HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited require unanimous consent of HSBC and The Saudi British Bank.
The addition to goodwill in Latin America related principally to the acquisition of Grupo Banistmo, S. A. on 23 November 2006.
The calculation of the PVIF is based upon assumptions that take into account risk and uncertainty.
To project these cash flows, a variety of assumptions regarding future experience is made by each insurance operation which reflect local market conditions and managements judgement of local future trends.
Some of the Groups insurance operations incorporate risk margins separately into the projection assumptions for each product, while others incorporate risk margins into the overall discount rate.
This is reflected in the wide range of risk discount rates applied.
2 The amortisation charge for the year is recognised within the income statement under Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, with the exception of the amortisation of mortgage servicing rights that is charged to net fee income.
22 Impairment of assets other than financial instruments During 2006 there was no impairment of goodwill 2005: nil: 2004: nil.
Impairment testing in respect of goodwill is performed annually by comparing the recoverable amount of cash generating units CGUs determined at 1 July 2006 based on a value in use calculation.
That calculation uses cash flow estimates based on managements cash flow projections, extrapolated in perpetuity using a nominal long-term growth rate based on current GDP and inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates.
Cash flows are extrapolated in perpetuity due to the long-term perspective within the Group of the business units making up the CGUs.
The discount rate used is based on the cost of capital HSBC allocates to investments in the countries within which the CGU operates.
The cost of capital assigned to an individual CGU and used to discount its future cash flows can have a significant effect on its valuation.
The cost of capital percentage is generally derived from an appropriate capital asset pricing model, which itself depends on inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables including the risk-free rate in the country concerned and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated.
These variables are established on the basis of management judgement.
Management judgement is required in estimating the future cash flows of the CGUs.
These values are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the periods for which detailed forecasts are available, and to assumptions regarding the longterm sustainable pattern of cash flows thereafter.
While the acceptable range within which underlying assumptions can be applied is governed by the requirement for resulting forecasts to be compared with actual performance and verifiable economic data in future years, the cash flow forecasts necessarily and appropriately reflect managements view of future business prospects.
The following CGUs include in their carrying value goodwill that is a significant proportion of total goodwill reported by HSBC.
These CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other than goodwill.
The only circumstances where a reasonably possible change in key assumptions might have caused an impairment loss to be recognised was in respect of Private Banking Europe where a fall of 0.9 per cent in the long-term growth rate beyond the initial cash flow projections, or an increase of 0.8 per cent in the discount rate would have caused an impairment loss to be recognised.
Recognising this, the calculation of the value in use for Private Banking Europe, based on discounted projected cash flows, has been additionally benchmarked against market transactions in private banking companies in Europe to ensure the carrying value is supportable.
At 1 July 2006, aggregate goodwill of US$2,833 million had been allocated to CGUs that were not considered individually significant.
1 Including assets held on finance leases with a net book value of US$11 million 2005: US$7 million.
2 Including assets held on finance leases with a net book value of US$450 million 2005: US$327 million.
3 Including assets with a net book value of US$425 million 2005: US$13 million pledged as security for liabilities.
4 At 31 December 2006, HSBC had US$1,380 million 2005: US$1,256 million of contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment.
Investment properties in Hong Kong, the Macau Special Administrative Region and mainland China, which represent 25 per cent by value of HSBCs investment properties subject to revaluation, were valued by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited, which is a member of the Hong Kong Institute of Surveyors.
As a result of the revaluation, the net book value of investment properties increased by US$164 million 2005: surplus of US$201 million, which was credited to the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2006.
HSBC Holdings had no investment properties at 31 December 2006 or 2005.
Included within Other operating income was rental income of US$153 million 2005: US$116 million earned by HSBC on its investment properties.
Direct operating expenses of US$61 million 2005: US$39 million incurred in respect of the investment properties during the year were recognised in General and administrative expenses.
Direct operating expenses arising in respect of investment properties that did not generate rental income during 2006 amounted to nil 2005: US$3 million.
HSBC recognised US$144 million 2005: US$10 million as contractual obligations to purchase, construct, develop, maintain or enhance investment properties.
367 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 24 HSBC properties leased to customers HSBC properties leased to customers included US$470 million at 31 December 2006 2005: US$646 million let under operating leases, net of accumulated depreciation of US$53 million 2005: US$42 million.
None was held by HSBC Holdings.
2 Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the principal subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in the Notes 28 Debt securities in issue, 32 Subordinated liabilities and 37 Minority interests respectively.
All the above subsidiaries are included in the HSBC consolidated financial statements.
368 Details of all HSBC companies will be annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies.
All the above make their financial statements up to 31 December except for HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. HSBC La Buenos Aires Seguros S. A. and Maxima S. A. AFJP, whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually.
The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for HSBC Bank Middle East Limited which operates mainly in the Middle East, and HSBC Life International Limited which operates mainly in Hong Kong.
Subsidiaries which experience significant restrictions on their ability to transfer funds to HSBC in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans and advances During 2006 and 2005, none of the Groups subsidiaries has experienced significant restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances.
Subsidiaries where HSBC owns less than 50 per cent of the voting rights HSBCs interest in Description of relationship Subsidiary equity capital that gives HSBC control % 2006 Beijing HSBC Insurance Brokers Limited 24.9 HSBC has the right to appoint the majority of the board, therefore has management control.
HSBC Insurance Brokers India Private Limited 25.9 HSBC has the right to appoint the majority of the board, therefore has management control.
HSBC Private Equity Fund 3 38.8 HSBC is the fund manager and controls the fund.
HSBC Global Technology Alpha Fund 23.9 The fund is a Wider Purpose Fund and consolidation is required under IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
2005 Beijing HSBC Insurance Brokers Limited 24.9 HSBC has the right to appoint the majority of the board, therefore has management control.
HSBC Continental European Alpha Fund 6.1 The fund is a Wider Purpose Fund and consolidation is required under IAS 27.
HSBC Global Technology Alpha Fund 48.7 The fund is a Wider Purpose Fund and consolidation is required under IAS 27.
Investments where HSBC owns 20 per cent or more of the voting rights but does not classify the investment as a subsidiary, joint venture or associate HSBCs interest in Description of relationship that results in HSBC accounting Investment equity capital for entity as an investment % 2005 Zhong-Run Company Limited 25.0 Entity is held by a venture capital organisation which is exempt from classifying investments as associates under IAS 28.
In 2006 there were no significant investments where HSBC owned 20 per cent or more of the voting rights but did not classify the investment as a subsidiary, joint venture or associate.
Acquisitions HSBC made the following acquisitions of subsidiaries or business operations in 2006, which were accounted for using the purchase method: On 23 November 2006 HSBC acquired 99.98 per cent of Grupo Banistmo, S. A. Banistmo for a total consideration of US$1,968 million, comprising US$1,773 million in cash and US$195 million in contingent consideration.
The contingent consideration is in respect of a binding offer to preference shareholders for the purchase of their 369 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 24 preference shares within one year after acquisition.
Banistmo is a leading banking group in Central America and has operations in Panama, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras and Nicaragua.
The post-acquisition profit of Banistmo was US$1 million.
Goodwill of US$1,450 million arose from this acquisition.
The goodwill on the Banistmo acquisition represents value obtainable from synergies with HSBC, expertise HSBC brings to the proposition and the access to the Central American market that the acquisition provides to the Group.
HSBC also made the following acquisitions of significant subsidiaries or business operations in 2006, which were accounted for using the purchase method: i On 30 April 2006 HSBC acquired the entire share capital of BNL Inversiones Argentinas S. A. the holding company of the bank Banca Nazionale del Lavoro S. A. which had net liabilities of US$3 million, for a cash consideration of US$155 million.
Goodwill of US$158 million arose on acquisition.
ii On 4 October 2006 HSBC acquired the entire share capital of Solstice Capital Group Inc. for a cash consideration of US$50 million.
Goodwill of US$46 million arose on acquisition.
iii On 4 September 2006 HSBC acquired the Australian custody business from Westpac Banking Corporation for a total consideration of US$105 million, comprising US$91 million in cash and US$14 million contingent consideration.
Goodwill of US$32 million arose on acquisition.
In addition to the above, there were other minor acquisitions and increases in investment in subsidiaries which increased goodwill by US$40 million.
370 In addition to cash and balances at central banks, items in the course of collection from other banks and items in the course of transmission to other banks, included in the assets and liabilities acquired above are cash and cash equivalents of US$736 million.
These assets are disposed of within 12 months of acquisition.
Neither a gain nor loss was recognised on reclassifying these assets as held for sale.
The majority arose within the geographical segment North America.
Receivables The receivables classified as held for sale in 2006 relate mainly to a residential mortgage book in New Zealand for which an agreement to negotiate the sale was entered into in January 2007.
These assets are presented within the geographical segment Rest of Asia-Pacific.
At 31 December 2006, the accumulated amount of the change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was US$1,535 million 2005: US$1,144 million.
At 31 December 2006, the accumulated amount of the change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was US$335 million 2005: US$398 million.
The hedged portion of these debt securities is presented within the balance sheet caption Financial liabilities designated at fair value, with the remaining portion included within Trading liabilities.
These include death claims, surrenders, lapses, the setting up of liability to policyholders at the initial inception of the policy, the declaration of bonuses and other amounts attributable to policyholders.
376 31 Provisions Total provisions at 31 December 2006 were US$2,859 million 2005: US$1,966 million, of which US$1,096 million 2005: US$530 million relates to deferred tax and US$1,763 million 2005: US$1,436 million relates to other provisions.
Of this amount, US$876 million 2005: US$458 million has no expiry date and US$191 million 2005: US$377 million is scheduled to expire within 10 years.
Deferred tax is not recognised on temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and branches because earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the case of subsidiaries and no further tax is expected to arise in the foreseeable future in the case of branches.
The total of such relevant temporary differences amounted to US$22,424 million 2005: US$15,367 million.
There are no deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet.
2 The increase in other provisions includes unwinding of discounts of US$8 million 2005: US$11 million in relation to vacant space provisions and US$19 million 2005: US$23 million in relation to Brazilian provisions for civil and fiscal labour claims.
Included within Other provisions are: i Provisions for onerous property contracts of US$106 million 2005: US$149 million, of which US$71 million 2005: US$74 million relates to discounted future costs associated with leasehold properties that became vacant as a consequence of HSBCs move to Canary Wharf in 2002.
The provisions cover rent voids while finding new tenants, shortfalls in expected rent receivable compared with rent payable, and the cost of refurbishing the buildings to attract tenants.
Uncertainties arise from movements in market rents, delays in finding new tenants and the timing of rental reviews.
ii Labour, civil and fiscal litigation provisions in HSBCs Brazil operations of US$282 million 2005: US$235 million.
These relate to labour and overtime litigation claims brought by employees after leaving the bank.
The provisions are based on the expected number of departing employees, their individual salaries and historical trends.
The timing of the settlement of these claims is uncertain.
iii Provisions of US$749 million 2005: US$652 million have been made in respect of costs arising from contingent liabilities and contractual commitments Note 41, including guarantees of US$64 million 2005: US$55 million and commitments of US$93 million 2005: US$122 million.
Interest rates on the floating rate loan capital are related to interbank offered rates.
On the remaining subordinated loan capital, interest is payable at fixed rates up to 10.176 per cent.
1 See Step-up Perpetual Preferred Securities, note a Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings.
2 See Step-up Perpetual Preferred Securities, note b Guaranteed by HSBC Bank.
379 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 32 3 The interest margin on the 800m and US$450m callable subordinated floating rate notes 2016 increases by 0.5 per cent from March 2011 and July 2011, respectively.
4 The interest rate on the 4.75 per cent callable subordinated notes 2020 changes in September 2015 to three-month sterling LIBOR plus 0.82 per cent.
5 The distributions on the trust preferred securities change in November 2015 to three-month dollar LIBOR plus 1.926 per cent.
6 The interest rate on the 5.375 per cent callable subordinated step-up notes 2030 changes in November 2025 to three month sterling LIBOR plus 1.50 per cent.
7 The interest rate on the callable subordinated variable coupon notes 2017 is fixed at 5.75 per cent until June 2012.
Thereafter, the rate per annum is the sum of the gross redemption yield of the then prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.70 per cent.
8 The interest rate on the 5 per cent callable subordinated notes 2023 changes in March 2018 to become the rate per annum which is the sum of the gross redemption yield of the prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.80 per cent.
9 The interest rate on the 4.25 per cent callable subordinated notes changes in March 2011 to three-month EURIBOR plus 1.05 per cent.
10 The interest margin on the callable subordinated floating notes 2020 increases by 0.5 per cent from September 2015.
11 The 7.65 per cent subordinated notes 2025 are repayable at the option of each of the holders in May 2007.
12 The interest rate on the 8.625 per cent step-up updated subordinated notes changes in December 2007 to become, for each successive five year period, the rate per annum which is the sum of the yield on the then five year benchmark UK gilt plus 1.87 per cent.
Footnotes 3 to 12 excluding footnote 1 all relate to notes that are repayable at the option of the borrower on the date of the change of the interest rate, and at subsequent interest rate reset dates and interest payment dates in some cases, subject to the prior consent of the Financial Services Authority and, where relevant, the local banking regulator.
Step-up Perpetual Preferred Securities a Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings The seven issues of Non-cumulative Step-up Perpetual Preferred Securities footnote 1 were made by Jersey limited partnerships and are guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by HSBC Holdings.
The proceeds of the issues were on-lent to HSBC Holdings by the limited partnerships by issue of subordinated notes.
The Preferred Securities qualify as innovative tier 1 capital for HSBC.
The Preferred Securities, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with rights to income and capital distributions and distributions upon liquidation of HSBC Holdings that are equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares of HSBC Holdings.
The Preferred Securities are perpetual, but redeemable in 2014, 2010, 2013, 2016, 2015, 2030 and 2012 respectively at the option of the general partner of the limited partnerships.
If not redeemed, the distributions payable step-up and become floating rate or, for the sterling issue, for each successive five-year period the sum of the then five-year benchmark UK gilt plus a margin.
There are limitations on the payment of distributions if prohibited under UK banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBCs capital adequacy requirements, or if HSBC Holdings has insufficient distributable reserves as defined.
HSBC Holdings has covenanted that if it is prevented under certain circumstances from paying distributions on the Preferred Securities in full, it will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect of its ordinary shares, or effect repurchase or redemption of its ordinary shares, until after a distribution has been paid in full.
If i HSBCs total capital ratio falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or ii the Directors expect that, in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Holdings, i will occur in the near term, then the Preferred Securities will be substituted by Preference Shares of HSBC Holdings having economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the Preferred Securities and the guarantee taken together.
b Guaranteed by HSBC Bank The two issues of Non-cumulative Step-up Perpetual Preferred Securities footnote 2 were made by Jersey limited partnerships and are guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by HSBC Bank.
The proceeds of the issues were on-lent to HSBC Bank by the limited partnerships by issue of subordinated notes.
The Preferred Securities qualify as innovative tier 1 capital for HSBC and for HSBC Bank on a solo and consolidated basis and, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with rights to income and capital distributions and distributions upon liquidation of HSBC Bank that are equivalent to the rights they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares of HSBC Bank.
The two issues of Preferred Securities are perpetual, but redeemable in 2031 and 2020, respectively, at the option of the general partner of the limited partnerships.
If not redeemed the distributions payable step-up and become floating rate.
The same limitations on the payment of distributions apply to HSBC Bank as to HSBC, as described above.
HSBC Bank has provided a similar covenant to that provided by HSBC Holdings, also as described above.
380 If i any of the two issues of Preferred Securities are outstanding in November 2048 or April 2049, respectively, or ii the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank on a solo and consolidated basis falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or iii in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Bank, the Directors expect ii to occur in the near term, then the Preferred Securities will be substituted by Preference Shares of HSBC Bank having economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the Preferred Securities and the guarantee taken together.
The notes are repayable from their step up date at the option of the borrower, subject to the prior consent of the Financial Services Authority.
2 The interest rate on the 3.625 per cent callable subordinated notes 2020 changes in June 2015 to become three-month EURIBOR plus 0.93 per cent.
The notes may be redeemed at par from June 2015 at the option of the borrower, subject to the prior consent of the Financial Services Authority.
3 The interest rate on the 9.875 per cent subordinated bonds 2018 changes in April 2013 to become the higher of i 9.875 per cent or ii the sum of the yield on the relevant benchmark treasury stock plus 2.5 per cent.
The bonds may be redeemed in April 2013 at par and redemption has also been allowed from April 1998, subject to the prior consent of the Financial Services Authority, for an amount based on the redemption yields of the relevant benchmark treasury stocks.
Observable market prices are not, however, available for many of HSBCs financial assets and liabilities not carried at fair value.
The fair values of the assets and liabilities in the table above are determined as follows: i Loans and advances to banks and customers The fair values of personal and commercial loans and advances are estimated by discounting anticipated cash flows including interest at contractual rates.
Performing loans are grouped, as far as possible, into homogeneous pools segregated by maturity and coupon rates.
In general, cash flows are discounted using current market rates for instruments with similar maturity, repricing and credit risk characteristics.
For fixed rate loans, assumptions are made on the expected prepayment rates appropriate to the type of loan.
Conforming residential mortgages in the US are treated differently because there is an established market for the related asset-backed securities.
In such cases, fair value is estimated by reference to quoted market prices for loans with similar characteristics and maturities.
For impaired commercial loans, fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows over the time period they are expected to be recovered.
ii Financial investments Held-to-maturity treasury and other eligible bills and debt securities are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses.
The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices.
The fair values of unlisted financial investments are determined using valuation techniques that take into consideration future earnings streams and valuations of equivalent quoted securities.
iii Deposits by banks and customer accounts Deposits by banks and customer accounts are grouped by residual maturity.
Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows, applying either market rates, where applicable, or current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
382 iv Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities Fair values are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where available, or by reference to quoted market prices for similar instruments.
The fair values presented in the table above are stated at a specific date and may be significantly different from the amounts which will actually be paid or received on the maturity or settlement dates of the instruments.
In many cases, it would not be possible to realise immediately the estimated fair values.
Accordingly, these fair values do not represent the value of these financial instruments to HSBC as a going concern.
The fair values of intangible assets, such as values placed on portfolios of core deposits, credit card and customer relationships, are not included above, because they are not financial instruments.
As other entities may use different valuation methodologies and assumptions in determining fair values, comparisons of fair values between entities may not be meaningful and users are advised to exercise caution when using this data.
The following table lists those financial instruments for which their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value because, for example, they are short term in nature or reprice to current market rates frequently: Assets Liabilities Cash and balances at central banks Hong Kong Government currency notes in circulation Items in the course of collection from other banks Items in the course of transmission to other banks Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness Endorsements and acceptances Endorsements and acceptances Short-term receivables within Other assets Short-term payables within Other liabilities Accrued income Accruals HSBC Holdings 2006 2005 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings................ 14,456 14,537 14,092 12,252 Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings........................ 3,100 3,155 4,075 3,728 Subordinated liabilities................................................. 8,423 9,439 5,236 6,493 34 Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities The following is an analysis, by remaining contractual maturities at the balance sheet date, of asset and liability line items that represent amounts expected to be recovered or settled in under one year, and after one year.
Trading assets and liabilities are excluded because they are not held for collection or settlement over the period of contractual maturity.
Gains or losses on structural foreign exchange exposures are taken to reserves.
HSBCs management of its structural foreign exchange exposures is discussed in the Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk section on page 223.
In its separate financial statements, HSBC Holdings recognises its foreign exchange gains and losses on structural foreign exchange exposures in the income statement.
2 The negative net investment in Argentine pesos in 2005 reflects the deficiency in domestic net assets following the pesification of certain balances formerly denominated in US dollars.
386 Collateral accepted as security for assets The fair value of financial assets accepted as collateral that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default is US$188,008 million 2005: US$138,303 million.
The fair value of financial assets accepted as collateral that have been sold or repledged was US$135,998 million 2005: US$97,113 million.
HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities.
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard stock borrowing and lending activities.
2 The series F preferred stock is redeemable at par, at the option of HSBC USA Inc. in whole or part, on any dividend payment date on or after 7 April 2010.
3 The series G and Series H preferred stock are redeemable at par, at the option of HSBC USA Inc. in whole or part, at any time from 1 January 2011 and 1 July 2011, respectively.
4 The Series C and Series D preferred stock are redeemable at a declining premium above par, at the option of HSBC Bank Canada, in whole or part, from 30 June 2010 and 31 December 2010, respectively.
5 The preferred stock has been redeemable, at the option of HSBC USA Inc. in whole or part, from 1 July 1999 at par.
6 The preferred stock is redeemable, at the option of HSBC USA Inc. in whole or part, at any time on or after 1 October 2007 at par.
7 The preferred stock of each series is redeemable, at the option of HSBC USA Inc. in whole or part, on any dividend payment date at par.
All redemptions are subject to the prior consent of the Financial Services Authority and, where relevant, the local banking regulator.
38 Called up share capital Authorised The authorised ordinary share capital of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2006 and 2005 was US$7,500 million divided into 15,000 million ordinary shares of US$0.50 each.
At 31 December 2006 and 2005, the authorised preference share capital of HSBC Holdings was 10 million noncumulative preference shares of 0.01 each, 10 million non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each, and 10 million non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 each.
At 31 December 2006 and 2005, the authorised non-voting deferred share capital of HSBC Holdings was 301,500 divided into 301,500 non-voting deferred shares of 1 each.
The Board of Directors will not declare a dividend on the preference shares if payment of the dividend would cause HSBC Holdings not to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements of the FSA or the profit of HSBC Holdings available for distribution as dividends are not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings to pay in full both dividends on the preference shares and dividends on any other shares that are scheduled to be paid on the same date and that have an equal right to dividends.
HSBC Holdings may not declare or pay dividends on any class of its shares ranking lower in the right to dividends than the preference shares nor redeem nor purchase in any manner any of its other shares ranking equal with or lower than the preference shares unless it has paid in full, or set aside an amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends on the preference shares for the thencurrent dividend period.
The preference shares carry no rights to conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings.
Holders of the preference shares will only be entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC Holdings if the dividend payable on the preference shares has not been paid in full for four consecutive dividend payment dates.
In such circumstances, holders of preference shares will be entitled to vote on all matters put to general meetings until such time as HSBC Holdings shall have paid a full dividend on the preference shares.
HSBC Holdings may redeem the preference shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, with the consent of the FSA.
The 301,500 non-voting deferred shares were in issue throughout 2005 and 2006 and are held by a subsidiary undertaking of HSBC Holdings.
Holders of the non-voting deferred shares are not entitled to receive dividends on these shares.
In addition, on winding-up or other return of capital, holders are entitled to receive the amount paid up on their shares after distribution to ordinary shareholders of the amount of 10,000,000 in respect of each ordinary share held by them.
Details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan, HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme, the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans are given in Note 9.
On exercise of the options, the HSBC France shares are exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the same ratio as for the acquisition of HSBC France 13 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC France share.
During 2006, 445,115 2005: 435,784 HSBC France shares were issued following the exercise of employee share options and exchanged for 5,786,495 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, such shares being delivered from The HSBC Holdings Employee Benefit Trust 2001 No.
During 2006, no options over HSBC France shares lapsed 2005: nil.
During 2006, there were no 2005: 1,500 HSBC France shares previously issued following the exercise of employee share options that were exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 2005: 19,500 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
There were 1,287,881 HSBC France employee share options exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares outstanding at 31 December 2006 2005: 1,732,996.
At 31 December 2006, The HSBC Holdings Employee Benefit Trust 2001 No.
1 held 15,316,328 2005: 21,102,823 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be exchanged for HSBC France shares arising from the exercise of options.
HSBC France options effectively outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under this arrangement are as follows: Number of HSBC France shares exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2006............................................... 1,287,881 2007 to 2010 37.05 142.50 31 December 2005................................................ 1,732,996 2006 to 2010 35.52 142.50 31 December 2004................................................ 2,170,280 2005 to 2010 32.78 142.50 There also exist outstanding options over the shares of HSBC Private Bank France, a subsidiary of HSBC France which are exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, the details of which are set out in the Directors Report on pages 271 and 272 and summarised below.
On exercise of options over shares of HSBC Private Bank France, the HSBC Private Bank France shares are exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the ratio of 1.83 HSBC Holdings shares for each HSBC Private Bank France share.
During 2006, 194,804 2005: 473,400 HSBC Private Bank France shares were issued following the exercise of employee share options and exchanged for 356,472 2005: 841,291 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, such shares being delivered from The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 Private Banking France.
During 2006, no options over HSBC Private Bank France shares lapsed 2005: 59,875.
During 2006, 6,000 2005: 1,150 HSBC Private Bank France shares previously issued following the exercise of employee share options were exchanged for 10,980 2005: 2,104 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
At 31 December 2006, 8,819 2005: 14,819 HSBC Private Bank France shares were in issue and will be exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares on the fifth anniversary of the date of the awards of the options.
There were 402,856 HSBC Private Bank France employee share options exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares outstanding at 31 December 2006 2005: 597,660.
At 31 December 2006, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 held 1,085,323 2005: 1,452,775 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be exchanged for HSBC Private Bank France shares arising from the exercise of options.
HSBC Private Bank France options including shares issued but not exchanged effectively outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under this arrangement are as follows: 389 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 38 Number of HSBC Private Bank France shares exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2006............................................... 411,675 2007 to 2012 10.84 22.22 31 December 2005................................................ 612,479 2006 to 2012 10.84 22.22 31 December 2004................................................. 1,132,060 2005 to 2012 10.84 22.22 On the acquisition of Banque Hervet in 2001, Banque Hervet shares were held in a Plan dEpargne Entreprise on behalf of Banque Hervet employees to vest and be released to employees over a 5 year period.
It was agreed to exchange these Banque Hervet shares, on vesting, for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the ratio of 3.46 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each Banque Hervet share.
During 2006, 163,369 2005: 7,670 Banque Hervet shares were released in connection with the vesting of interests in the Plan dEpargne Entreprise and exchanged for 565,151 2005: 26,539 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, such shares being delivered from The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 Banque Hervet.
At 31 December 2006, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 Banque Hervet held no 2005: 586,213 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
Banque Hervet shares to be exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under this arrangement were as follows: Number of Banque Hervet shares exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of vesting 31 December 2006............................................................................................... 31 December 2005................................................................................................ 169,416 2006 31 December 2004................................................................................................. 177,086 2005 2006 Following the acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003, all outstanding options and equity-based awards over HSBC Finance Corporation common shares were converted into rights to receive HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the same ratio as the share exchange offer for HSBC Finance Corporation 2.675 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC Finance Corporation common share and the exercise prices per share adjusted accordingly.
During 2006, options over 10,484,937 2005: 3,563,020 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were exercised and 9,781,228 2005: 2,638,816 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares delivered from The HSBC Household Employee Benefit Trust 2003 to satisfy the exercise of these options.
During 2006, options over 300,555 2005: 152,936 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares lapsed.
At 31 December 2006, The HSBC Household Employee Benefit Trust 2003 and the HSBC Household Employee Benefit Trust 2003 No.
2 held a total of 8,670,335 2005: 9,173,100 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and 198,665 2005: 2,198,829 ADSs, each of which represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, which may be used to satisfy the exercise of these options and equity-based awards under the HSBC Finance Corporation share plans.
Options and equity-based awards outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Finance Corporation share plans are as follows: Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2006............................................... 27,322,438 2007 to 2012 nil US$21.37 31 December 2005................................................ 38,107,930 2006 to 2012 nil US$21.37 31 December 2004................................................ 41,823,886 2005 to 2021 nil US$25.40 Prior to its acquisition by HSBC Holdings, HSBC Finance Corporation issued 8.875 per cent Adjustable ConversionRate Equity Security Units Units which included a contract under which the holder agreed to purchase, for US$25 each, HSBC Finance Corporation common shares on 15 February 2006, with an option for early settlement.
The Units which remained outstanding following the acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation were converted into contracts to purchase HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
Units exercised at maturity, 15 February 2006, entitled the holder to receive a number of shares based on the market value of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares at the time, which was 2.6041 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each Unit.
During 2006, 3,424,742 2005: 324,726 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were issued in connection with the maturity of 1,315,140 2005: 124,698 Units.
390 The maximum number of Units outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were as follows: Number of Units exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2006............................................... 31 December 2005................................................ 1,315,140 2006 US$8.00 US$9.60 31 December 2004................................................ 1,439,838 2005 to 2006 US$8.00 US$9.60 Following the acquisition of Bank of Bermuda in 2004, all outstanding employee share options over Bank of Bermuda shares were converted into rights to receive HSBC Holdings ordinary shares based on the consideration of US$40 for each Bank of Bermuda share and the average closing price of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the five business days preceding the closing date of the acquisition.
During 2006, options over 529,233 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were exercised 2005: 459,091 and delivered from the HSBC Bank of Bermuda Employee Benefit Trust 2004 to satisfy the exercise of these options.
During 2006, options over 126,854 2005: 744,421 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares lapsed.
At 31 December 2006, the HSBC Bank of Bermuda Employee Benefit Trust 2004 held 2,266,949 2005: 2,796,182 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be used to satisfy the exercise of options.
Options outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the Bank of Bermuda share plans are as follows: Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2006............................................... 2,710,368 2007 to 2013 US$7.04 US$18.35 31 December 2005................................................ 3,366,455 2006 to 2013 US$7.04 US$18.35 31 December 2004................................................ 4,569,967 2005 to 2013 US$3.86 US$18.35 The maximum obligation at 31 December 2006 to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above option arrangements, together with Performance Share and Restricted Share awards under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 and The HSBC Share Plan, was 404,348,508 2005: 486,436,966.
The total number of shares at 31 December 2006 held by employee benefit trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares was 133,346,569 2005: 130,812,676.
2 Retained earnings include 135,603,870 US$2,107 million of own shares held within HSBCs insurance business, its retirement funds for the benefit of policyholders or beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee share schemes or bonus plans, and the market-making activities in Global Markets.
3 Statutory share premium relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 was taken in respect of the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc in 1992, HSBC France in 2000 and HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003 and the shares issued were recorded at their nominal value only.
In HSBCs consolidated accounts the fair value difference of US$8,290 million in respect of CCF and US$12,768 million in respect of HSBC Finance Corporation is a merger reserve.
4 Amounts transferred to the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges include US$479 million taken to Net interest income and US$1,719 million taken to Net trading income.
Cumulative goodwill amounting to US$5,138 million has been charged against reserves in respect of acquisitions of subsidiaries prior to 1 January 1998, including US$3,469 million charged against the merger reserve arising on the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc.
The balance of US$1,669 million has been charged against retained earnings.
2 Share premium includes the deduction of US$40 million of issue costs incurred during the year.
3 Retained earnings include 108,309,061 US$1,939 million of own shares held within HSBCs insurance business, its retirement funds for the benefit of policyholders or beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee share schemes or bonus plans, and the market-making activities in Global Markets.
4 Statutory share premium relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 was taken in respect of the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc in 1992, HSBC France in 2000 and HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003 and the shares issued were recorded at their nominal value only.
In HSBCs consolidated accounts the fair value difference of US$8,290 million in respect of HSBC France and US$12,768 million in respect of HSBC Finance Corporation is a merger reserve.
5 Amounts transferred to the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges include US$101 million taken to Net interest income and US$5 million taken to Net trading income.
2 Net exchange differences arising on the retranslation of amounts recognised in Retained earnings.
Total interest received by HSBC during the year was US$85,143 million 2005: US$65,799 million, 2004: US$49,021 million.
Total dividends received by HSBC during the year were US$1,525 million 2005: US$808 million, 2004: US$640 million.
The above table discloses the nominal principal amounts of third party off-balance sheet transactions, the amounts relating to other contingent liabilities and the nominal principal amounts relating to financial guarantee contracts.
Contingent liabilities and commitments are mainly credit-related instruments which include non-financial guarantees and commitments to extend credit.
Contractual amounts represent the amounts at risk should contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
Since a significant portion of guarantees and commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the contractual amounts is not representative of future liquidity requirements.
At 31 December 2006, HSBC had US$1,259 million 2005: US$1,218 million of capital commitments contracted but not provided for and US$289 million 2005: US$333 million of capital commitments authorised but not contracted for.
Guarantees including financial guarantee contracts HSBC provides guarantees and similar undertakings on behalf of both third party customers and other entities within the HSBC Group.
These guarantees are generally provided in the normal course of HSBCs banking business.
The principal types of guarantees provided, and the maximum potential amount of future payments which HSBC could be required to make at 31 December 2006, were as follows: 396 At 31 December 2006 At 31 December 2005 Guarantees Guarantees by HSBC by HSBC Holdings Holdings Guarantees in in favour of Guarantees in favour of favour of other HSBC in favour of other HSBC third parties Group entities third parties Group entities US$m US$m US$m US$m Guarantee type 1 Financial guarantee contracts...................................... 22,746 17,605 19,080 36,877 Standby letters of credit which are financial 2 guarantee contracts.................................................. 4,535 3,649 3 Other direct credit substitutes...................................... 5,514 5,302 4 Performance bonds...................................................... 8,070 6,355 4 Bid bonds..................................................................... 592 595 Standby letters of credit related to particular 4 transactions.............................................................. 7,301 6,640 4 Other transaction-related guarantees........................... 28,627 15,709 Other items.................................................................... 25 145 77,410 17,605 57,475 36,877 1 Financial guarantees are contracts that require the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss incurred because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
The amounts in the above table are nominal principal amounts.
2 Standby letters of credit which are financial guarantee contracts are irrevocable obligations on the part of HSBC to pay third parties when customers fail to make payments when due.
3 Other direct credit substitutes include re-insurance letters of credit and trade-related letters of credit issued without provision for the issuing entity to retain title to the underlying shipment.
4 Performance bonds, bid bonds, standby letters of credit and other transaction-related guarantees are undertakings by which the obligation on HSBC to make payment depends on the outcome of a future event.
The amounts disclosed in the above table reflect HSBCs maximum exposure under a large number of individual guarantee undertakings.
The risks and exposures arising from guarantees are captured and managed in accordance with HSBCs overall credit risk management policies and procedures.
Approximately half of the above guarantees have a term of less than one year.
Guarantees with terms of more than one year are subject to HSBCs annual credit review process.
Joint ventures HSBC and its operations are contingently liable with respect to lawsuits and other matters that arise in the normal course of business.
Management is of the opinion that while it is impossible to ascertain the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to these contingencies, their eventual outcome is not expected to materially affect the Groups financial position and operations.
In relation to joint ventures, HSBC had no contingent liabilities, incurred jointly or otherwise.
HSBC had no capital commitments incurred jointly or otherwise in relation to its interests in joint ventures.
Post-employment benefit obligations HSBC had no contingent liabilities relating to post-employment benefits.
397 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 42, 43 and 44 42 Lease commitments Finance lease commitments HSBC leases land and buildings including branches and equipment from third parties under finance lease arrangements to support its operations.
Operating lease commitments At 31 December 2006, HSBC was obligated under a number of non-cancellable operating leases for properties, plant and equipment on which the future minimum lease payments extend over a number of years.
2006 2005 Land and Land and buildings Equipment buildings Equipment US$m US$m US$m US$m Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases: no later than one year........................................... 789 10 712 32 later than one year and no later than five years... 2,290 21 1,730 24 later than five years.............................................. 1,198 1,452 4,277 31 3,894 56 In 2006, US$781 million 2005: US$704 million: 2004: US$588 million was charged to General and administrative expenses in respect of lease and sublease agreements, of which US$762 million 2005: US$683 million: 2004: US$567 million related to minimum lease payments, US$19 million 2005: US$21 million: 2004: US$21 million to contingent rents, and nil 2005: nil: 2004: nil to sublease payments.
The contingent rent represents escalation payments made to landlords for operating, tax and other escalation expenses.
Finance lease receivables HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets such as aircraft, property and general plant and machinery.
At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for further terms.
Lessees may participate in any sales proceeds achieved.
Lease rentals arising during the lease terms will either be fixed in quantum or be varied to reflect changes in, for example, tax or interest rates.
Rentals are calculated to recover the cost of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income.
398 2006 2005 Total future Unearned Total future Unearned minimum finance Present minimum interest Present payments income value payments income value US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Lease receivables: no later than one year...... 2,305 460 1,845 2,170 266 1,904 later than one year and no later than five years.... 7,207 1,400 5,807 5,908 1,329 4,579 later than five years......... 9,206 2,944 6,262 8,369 3,109 5,260 18,718 4,804 13,914 16,447 4,704 11,743 At 31 December 2006, unguaranteed residual values of US$212 million 2005: US$68 million had been accrued, and the accumulated allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments receivable amounted to US$28 million 2005: US$15 million.
During the year, a total of US$59 million 2005: nil was received as contingent rents and recognised within Other operating income.
Operating lease receivables HSBC leases a variety of different assets to third parties under operating lease arrangements, including transport assets such as rolling stock, property and general plant and machinery.
2006 2005 Land and Land and buildings Equipment buildings Equipment US$m US$m US$m US$m Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases: no later than one year........................................... 71 397 47 808 later than one year and no later than five years... 160 1,136 17 1,561 later than five years.............................................. 153 456 12 573 384 1,989 76 2,942 43 Litigation HSBC is party to legal actions in a number of jurisdictions including the UK, Hong Kong and the US, arising out of its normal business operations.
HSBC considers that none of the actions is regarded as material, and none is expected to result in a significant adverse effect on the financial position of HSBC, either individually or in the aggregate.
Management believes that adequate provisions have been made in respect of such litigation.
HSBC has not disclosed any contingent liability associated with these legal actions because it is not practicable to do so.
44 Related party transactions The Groups related parties include associates, joint ventures, post-employment benefit plans for the benefit of HSBC employees, key management personnel, close family members of key management personnel and entities which are controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced, or for which significant voting power is held, by key management personnel or their close family members.
Transactions with Directors and other key management personnel Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings, being the members of the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings and Group Managing Directors.
The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amount outstanding during the year is considered the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and the amount of outstanding balances during the year.
1 All of the Directors are key management personnel of HSBC Holdings.
The aggregate of the highest amounts outstanding during 2006 of loans, credit card transactions and guarantees with HSBC for the Directors and close members of their family and companies that they control, jointly control or significantly influence, or for which significant voting power is held were US$550,175,512, US$696,444 and US$24,929,062 respectively 2005: US$495,990,427, US$617,259 and US$16,775,779 respectively.
2 Included within Officers are non-Director members of the key management personnel of HSBC Holdings.
During 2006, 17 non-Director key management personnel and close members of their family and companies that they control, jointly control or significantly influence, or for which significant voting power is held entered into loan, credit card transactions and guarantees with HSBC 2005: 13 persons.
The aggregate of the highest amounts outstanding during 2006 of loans, credit card transactions and guarantees with HSBC for the non-Director key management personnel and close members of their family and companies that they control, jointly control or significantly influence, or for which significant voting power is held were US$32,429,961, US$941,114 and US$22,747 respectively 2005: US$30,116,609, US$287,888 and US$20,385 respectively.
The aggregate of the balances of loans and credit card transactions and guarantees with HSBC outstanding at 31 December 2006 for the non-Director key management personnel and close members of their family and companies that they control, jointly control or significantly influence, or for which significant voting power is held were US$16,418,110, US$658,890 and US$22,747 respectively 2005: US$20,166,452, US$66,467 and US$20,385 respectively.
3 For 2006, Officers comprise ten Group Managing Directors, the Group Chief Accounting Officer and the Group Company Secretary.
For 2005, Officers comprised six Group Managing Directors, 30 Group General Managers and the Group Company Secretary.
Particulars of Directors transactions are recorded in a register held at the Registered Office of HSBC Holdings which is available for inspection by members for 15 days prior to the HSBC Holdings Annual General Meeting and at the Annual General Meeting itself.
Some of the transactions were connected transactions, as defined by the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited but were exempt from any disclosure requirements under the provisions of those Rules.
The above transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees.
The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
400 Shareholdings and options of Directors and other key management personnel At 31 December 2006 2005 000 000 Number of options over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares made under employee share plans held by Directors and other key management personnel.............................................................. 4,563 14,217 Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially by Directors and other key management personnel........................................................................... 20,912 24,304 25,475 38,521 Transactions with other related parties of HSBC Associates and joint ventures The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures.
Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures are given in Note 20.
The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third party counterparties.
Pension funds At 31 December 2006, US$15.1 billion 2005: US$19.4 billion of HSBC pension fund assets were under management by HSBC companies.
Fees of US$49 million 2005: US$50 million were earned by HSBC companies for these management services.
HSBCs pension funds had placed deposits of US$348 million 2005: US$252 million with its banking subsidiaries.
HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC to manage the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of the liabilities.
At 31 December 2006, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$14.5 billion, the swaps had a negative fair value of US$273 million to the scheme and HSBC had delivered collateral of US$265 million to the scheme in respect of these swaps.
All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid-offer spreads.
In order to satisfy diversification requirements, the Trustee has requested special collateral provisions for the swap transactions between HSBC and the scheme.
The collateral agreement stipulates that the scheme never posts collateral to HSBC.
Collateral is posted to the scheme by HSBC at an amount that the Trustee is highly confident would be sufficient to replace the swaps in the event of default by HSBC Bank plc.
401 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 44, 45, 46 and 47 With the exception of the special collateral arrangements detailed above, all other aspects of the swap transactions between HSBC and the scheme are on substantially the same terms as comparable transactions with third party counterparties.
HSBC International Staff Retirements Benefits Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC to manage the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of the liabilities and selected assets.
At 31 December 2006, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$1.2 billion 2005: US$1.0 billion, and the swaps had a net positive fair value of US$14 million to the scheme 2005: US$53 million.
HSBC Holdings Details of HSBC Holdings principal subsidiaries are shown in Note 24.
The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and are on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third party counterparties, with no exceptions in respect of loans and advances to subsidiaries exceptions in 2005: US$3,296 million, and exceptions of US$640 million 2005: US$3,235 million in respect of loans from HSBC undertakings to HSBC Holdings made at an agreed zero per cent interest.
Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by a separate Group company.
HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into the scheme on their behalf.
Disclosure in relation to the scheme is made in Note 7 to the accounts.
45 Events after the balance sheet date As a consequence of inviting proposals for a sale and leaseback of 8 Canada Square, London, under an operating lease arrangement, the property has been reclassified as a non-current asset held for sale after 31 December 2006.
This is in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
The reclassification was made at carrying value, with no financial impact on the income statement.
At 31 December 2006, the carrying amount of the property, included in Property, plant and equipment, was US$742 million and the carrying amount of the long leasehold land, included in Prepayments and accrued income, was US$210 million.
The building and leasehold interest are included in the assets of the Europe geographical segment and the Other customer group segment.
402 On 1 March 2007, Ping An Insurance Group Company of China Limited Ping An Insurance, an associate of HSBC, issued 1,150 million new shares for a total consideration of RMB38,870 million approximately US$4,920 million.
HSBC did not subscribe for any additional shares and, as a result, its interest in the equity of Ping An Insurance decreased from 19.9 per cent to 16.8 per cent.
While the Groups interest has reduced, the assets of Ping An Insurance have substantially increased as a result of this issue.
Consequently, it is expected that this transaction would result in an increase in HSBCs share of underlying net assets of Ping An Insurance.
A fourth interim dividend for 2006 of US$0.36 per share US$4,171 million 2005: US$0.31 per share, US$3,513 million was declared by the Directors after 31 December 2006.
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2007 and authorised for issue.
46 UK and Hong Kong accounting requirements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs.
There would be no significant differences had they been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
47 Differences between IFRSs and US GAAP The consolidated financial statements of HSBC are prepared in accordance with IFRSs which differ significantly in certain respects from US GAAP.
The following is a summary of the significant differences applicable to HSBC.
Shareholders interest in the long-term insurance fund IFRSs IFRS 4 permits entities to continue to account for insurance contracts under previous GAAP until a comprehensive standard relating to the measurement of insurance liabilities is developed.
Under UK GAAP and, hence, current IFRSs, the value placed on insurance contracts that are classified as longterm insurance business and are in force at the balance sheet date is recognised as an asset.
US GAAP The net present value of future earnings is not recognised.
Acquisition costs and fees are deferred and amortised in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard SFAS 97 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long-duration Contracts and for Realised Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments.
Impact Under US GAAP, shareholders' equity is lower than under IFRSs because the present value of in-force long-term insurance business is not recognised.
This effect is partly offset by the treatment of acquisition costs, which are deferred and amortised under US GAAP but are written off immediately as an expense of long-term insurance business under IFRSs.
Pension costs IFRSs IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 19 requires pension liabilities to be assessed on the basis of current actuarial valuations performed on each plan, and pension assets to be measured at fair value.
The net pension surplus or deficit, representing the difference between plan assets and liabilities, is recognised on the balance sheet.
403 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 47 In accordance with IAS 19 revised 2006, HSBC has elected to record all actuarial gains and losses on the pension surplus or deficit in the year in which they occur within the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
US GAAP SFAS 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, prescribes a similar method of actuarial valuation for pension liabilities and requires the measurement of plan assets at fair value.
SFAS 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No.
87, 88, 106 and 132 R SFAS 158, was adopted by HSBC as at 31 December 2006 and aligns the US GAAP balance sheet treatment with IFRSs by requiring the funded status of HSBCs benefit plan the difference between plan assets at fair value and the plan benefit obligations to be recognised on the balance sheet.
In 2005, when the value of benefits accrued based on employee service up to the balance sheet date the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the value of plan assets, HSBC recognised an additional minimum pension liability to the extent that the excess was greater than any accrual already established for unfunded pension costs.
SFAS 87 does not permit recognition of all actuarial gains and losses in a statement other than the primary income statement.
As permitted by US GAAP, HSBC uses the 'corridor method', whereby actuarial gains and losses outside a certain range are recognised in the income statement in equal amounts over the remaining service lives of current employees.
That range is 10 per cent of the greater of plan assets and plan liabilities.
The remaining additional minimum pension liability and the transition to SFAS 158 are recognised directly in Other comprehensive income OCI.
Impact Net income under US GAAP is lower than under IFRSs as a result of the amortisation of the amount by which actuarial losses exceed gains beyond the 10 per cent 'corridor'.
Stock-based compensation IFRSs IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, requires that when annual bonuses are paid in restricted shares and the employee must remain with the employer for a fixed period in order to receive the shares, the fair value of the award is expensed over that period.
US GAAP For awards made before 1 July 2005, SFAS 123, Accounting for Stock-based Compensation, SFAS 123 requires that compensation cost be recognised over the period s in which the related employee services are rendered.
HSBC has interpreted this service period as the period to which the bonus relates.
For 2005 bonuses awarded in early 2006, HSBC will follow SFAS 123 revised 2004 Share-based Payment SFAS 123R.
SFAS 123R is consistent with IFRS 2 in requiring that restricted bonuses are expensed over the period the employee must remain with HSBC.
However, SFAS 123R only applies to awards made after the date of adoption, which for HSBC is 1 July 2005.
Impact Some of the bonuses awarded in respect of 2002, 2003 and 2004 were recognised over the relevant vesting period and were, therefore, expensed in Net income under IFRSs during 2005.
Under US GAAP, these awards were expensed in the years for which they were granted.
2005 bonuses will be expensed over the vesting period under both IFRSs and US GAAP.
Net income was, therefore, higher under US GAAP in 2005.
IFRSs and US GAAP are now largely aligned and this transition difference will be eliminated over the next few years.
404 Goodwill, purchase accounting and intangible assets IFRSs Prior to 1998, goodwill under UK GAAP was written off against equity.
HSBC did not elect to reinstate this goodwill on its balance sheet upon transition to IFRSs.
From 1 January 1998 to 31 December 2003, goodwill was capitalised and amortised over its useful life.
The carrying amount of goodwill existing at 31 December 2003 under UK GAAP was carried forward under the transition rules of IFRS 1 from 1 January 2004, subject to certain adjustments.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations requires that goodwill should not be amortised but should be tested for impairment at least annually at the cash generating unit level by applying a test based on recoverable amounts.
Quoted securities issued as part of the purchase consideration are valued for the purpose of determining the cost of the acquisition at their market price on the date the transaction is completed.
US GAAP Up to 30 June 2001, goodwill acquired was capitalised and amortised over its useful life, which could not exceed 25 years.
The amortisation of previously acquired goodwill ceased with effect from 31 December 2001.
Quoted securities issued as part of the purchase consideration are fair valued for the purpose of determining the cost of acquisition at their average market price over a reasonable period before and after the date on which the terms of the acquisition are agreed and announced.
Impact Total goodwill and shareholders equity are both higher under US GAAP than under IFRSs because, under US GAAP, i pre-1998 goodwill is included on the balance sheet and ii the amortisation of goodwill ceased on 31 December 2001 compared with 31 December 2003 under IFRSs.
However, goodwill on the acquisition of HSBC Finance in March 2003 is lower under US GAAP than under IFRSs.
This is principally the result of differences in the accounting for securitisations and intangibles.
Under IFRSs, previously recognised gains on the sale of assets to securitisation vehicles are eliminated and the securitised assets are recognised on balance sheet.
However, because HSBC elected not to restate business combinations prior to 1 January 2004 on transition to IFRSs, a significant amount of intangible assets arising on acquisition were not recognised for IFRSs purposes.
Under US GAAP, recognition of these assets was required.
Offsetting this was the recognition of a deferred tax liability under US GAAP in respect of these intangibles and gains on sale of securitised assets.
The effect of these items was further offset by the higher value under US GAAP of HSBC shares issued as part of the purchase consideration.
The HSBC share price fell between the time of the announcement of the acquisition in November 2002 and its completion in March 2003, so the average price under US GAAP exceeded the price on the date of acquisition under IFRSs.
Derivatives and hedge accounting IFRSs Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently remeasured, at fair value.
In the normal course of business, the fair value of a derivative on initial recognition is considered to be the transaction price that is the fair value of the consideration given or received.
However, in certain circumstances the fair value of an instrument will be evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument without modification or repackaging or will be based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, including interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates.
When unobservable market data have a significant impact on the valuation of derivatives, the entire initial difference in fair value indicated by the valuation model from the transaction price is not recognised immediately in the income statement but is recognised over the life of the transaction on an appropriate basis, or when the inputs become observable, or the transaction matures or is closed out.
405 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 47 Derivatives may be embedded in other financial instruments: for example, a convertible bond has an embedded conversion option.
An embedded derivative is treated as a separate derivative when its economic characteristics and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host contract, its terms are the same as those of a stand-alone derivative, and the combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only netted if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists, and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a net basis.
The method of recognising the resulting fair value gains or losses depends on whether the derivative is held for trading, or is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the risk being hedged.
When derivatives are designated as hedges, HSBC classifies them as either: i hedges of the change in fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedge : ii hedges of the variability in highly probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or iii hedges of net investments in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
Hedge accounting It is HSBCs policy to document, at the inception of a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, as well as the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The policy also requires documentation of the assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments, primarily derivatives, that are used in the hedging transaction are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items attributable to the hedged risks.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement, together with changes in the fair values of the hedged assets or liabilities or groups thereof that are attributable to the hedged risks.
If the hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to maturity, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case it is released to the income statement immediately.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity within the cash flow hedging reserve.
Any gain or loss relating to an ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
406 Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
Hedge effectiveness testing To qualify for hedge accounting, IAS 39 requires that at inception of the hedge and throughout its life, each hedge must be expected to be highly effective prospective effectiveness, and demonstrate actual effectiveness retrospective effectiveness on an ongoing basis.
The method HSBC entities adopt for assessing hedge effectiveness will depend on their risk management strategies.
For actual effectiveness to be achieved, the changes in fair value or cash flows must offset each other in the range of 80 per cent to 125 per cent for the hedge to be deemed effective.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting All gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
These gains and losses are reported in Net trading income, except where derivatives are managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value, in which case gains and losses are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value, other than interest settlements on derivatives managed in conjunction with issued debt securities designed at fair value which are reported in Interest expense.
From 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 Derivative financial instruments comprised futures, forward, swap and option transactions undertaken by HSBC in the foreign exchange, interest rate, equity, credit derivative, and commodity markets that were held off balance sheet.
Netting was applied where a legal right of set-off existed.
Accounting for these instruments was dependent upon whether the transactions were undertaken for trading or non-trading purposes.
Trading transactions Trading transactions included transactions undertaken for market-making, to service customers needs and for proprietary purposes, as well as any related hedges.
Transactions undertaken for trading purposes were marked to market and the net present value of any gain or loss arising was recognised in the income statement as Net trading income, after appropriate deferrals for unearned credit margins and future servicing costs.
Derivative trading transactions were valued by reference to an independent liquid price where this was available.
For those transactions with no readily available quoted prices, predominantly over the counter transactions, market values were determined by reference to independently sourced rates, using valuation models.
If market observable data was not available, the initial increase in fair value indicated by the valuation model, but based on unobservable inputs, was not recognised immediately in the income statement.
This amount was held back and recognised over the life of the transaction where appropriate, or released to the income statement when the inputs became observable, or when the transaction matured or was closed out.
Adjustments were made for illiquid positions when appropriate.
Assets, including gains, resulting from derivative exchange rate, interest rate, equities, credit derivative and commodity contracts which were marked to market were included in Derivatives on the asset side of the balance sheet.
Liabilities, including losses, resulting from such contracts, were included in Derivatives on the liability side of the balance sheet.
407 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 47 Non-trading transactions Non-trading transactions, which were those undertaken for hedging purposes as part of HSBCs risk management strategy against cash flows, assets, liabilities or positions, were measured on an accrual basis.
Non-trading transactions included qualifying hedges and positions that synthetically altered the characteristics of specified financial instruments.
Non-trading transactions were accounted for on an equivalent basis to the underlying assets, liabilities or net positions.
Any gains or losses arising were recognised on the same basis as those arising from the related assets, liabilities or positions.
To qualify as a hedge, a derivative was required effectively to reduce the price, foreign exchange or interest rate risk of the asset, liability or anticipated transaction to which it was linked and be capable of designation as a hedge at inception of the derivative contract.
Accordingly, changes in the market value of the derivative were required to be highly correlated to changes in the market value of the underlying hedged item at inception of the hedge and over the life of the hedge contract.
If these criteria were met, the derivative was accounted for on the same basis as the underlying hedged item.
Derivatives used for hedging purposes included swaps, forwards and futures.
Interest rate swaps were also used to alter synthetically the interest rate characteristics of financial instruments.
In order to qualify for synthetic alteration, a derivative instrument had to be linked to specific individual, or pools of similar, assets or liabilities by the notional principal and interest rate risks of the associated instruments, and had to achieve a result that was consistent with defined risk management objectives.
If these criteria were met, accruals based accounting was applied, i. e. income or expense was recognised and accrued to the next settlement date in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement.
Any gain or loss arising on the termination of a qualifying derivative was deferred and amortised to earnings over the original life of the terminated contract.
Where the underlying asset, liability or position was sold or terminated, the qualifying derivative was immediately marked to market and any gain or loss arising was taken to the income statement.
US GAAP The accounting under SFAS 133 Accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities is generally consistent with that under IAS 39, which HSBC has followed in its IFRSs reporting from 1 January 2005, as described above.
However, specific assumptions regarding hedge effectiveness under US GAAP are not permitted by IAS 39.
The requirements of SFAS 133 have been effective from 1 January 2001.
During 2006, HSBCs US operating subsidiaries discontinued the use of the shortcut method.
The US GAAP shortcut method permits an assumption of zero ineffectiveness in hedges of interest rate risk with an interest rate swap provided specific criteria have been met.
IAS 39 does not permit such an assumption, requiring a measurement of actual ineffectiveness at each designated effectiveness testing date.
However, IFRSs allow greater flexibility in the designation of the hedged item.
Under US GAAP, all contractual cash flows must form part of the designated relationship, whereas IAS 39 permits the designation of identifiable benchmark interest cash flows only.
Certain issued structured notes are classified as trading liabilities under IFRSs, but not under US GAAP.
Under IFRSs, these notes will be held at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in the income statement.
Under US GAAP, if the embedded derivative would otherwise require bifurcation, an irrevocable election may be made to initially and subsequently measure the entire issued note at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised through income.
This election is made under US GAAP when the underlying issued notes are classified as trading liabilities under IFRS.
If the embedded derivative is clearly and closely related to the host contract, the issued note will be held at amortised cost in its entirety, with changes in the amortised cost reflected in the income statement.
Under US GAAP, derivatives receivable and payable with the same counterparty may be reported net on the balance sheet when there is an executed ISDA Master Netting Arrangement covering enforceable jurisdictions.
These contracts do not meet the requirements for offset under IAS 32 and hence are presented gross on the balance sheet under IFRSs.
408 Impact Prior to 2006, HSBCs North American subsidiaries followed the shortcut method of hedge effectiveness testing for certain transactions in their US GAAP reporting.
Alternative hedge effectiveness testing methodologies were sought under IFRSs for these hedging relationships.
Apart from certain subsidiaries in North America, HSBC has chosen not to adopt hedge accounting for US GAAP purposes as this would require a designated hedged item inconsistent with the approach adopted under IFRSs.
Qualifying IAS 39 hedging derivatives have been measured at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in net income for US GAAP purposes.
Designation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss IFRSs Under IAS 39, a financial instrument, other than one held for trading, is classified in this category if it meets the criteria set out below, and is so designated by management.
An entity may designate financial instruments at fair value where the designation: eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring financial assets or financial liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases: or applies to a group of financial assets, financial liabilities or a combination of both that is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and where information about that group of financial instruments is provided internally on that basis to management: or relates to financial instruments containing one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows resulting from those financial instruments.
Financial assets and financial liabilities so designated are recognised initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to the income statement, and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The designation, once made, is irrevocable in respect of the financial instruments to which it relates.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which is generally on trade date.
Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of such assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement as they arise, together with related interest income and expense and dividends, within Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value, except for interest on own debt issued by HSBC, and related derivatives, which is reported in Interest expense.
US GAAP Generally, for financial assets to be measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised immediately in the income statement, they must meet the definition of trading securities in SFAS 115 Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities SFAS 115.
Financial liabilities are usually reported at amortised cost under US GAAP.
Since 1 January 2006, HSBC has accounted for hybrid financial instruments under the provisions of SFAS 155 Hybrid Financial Instruments.
Hybrid financial instruments used that contain an embedded derivative that would otherwise require bifurcation are, where so designated through an irrevocable election, initially and subsequently measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised through income.
Impact HSBC has principally used the fair value designation option in the following cases: for certain fixed rate long-term debt issues whose interest rate characteristic has been changed to floating through interest rate swaps as part of a documented interest rate management strategy.
In 2006, approximately US$56 billion 2005: US$51 billion of the Groups debt issues have been accounted for using this option.
The movement in fair value of these debt issues includes the effect of changes in own credit spread and any ineffectiveness in the economic relationship between the related swaps and own debt.
Such ineffectiveness arises from the different credit characteristics of the swap and own debt coupled with 409 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 47 the sensitivity of the floating leg of the swap to changes in short-term interest rates.
In addition, the economic relationship between the swap and own debt can be affected by relative movements in market factors, such as bond and swap rates, and the relative bond and swap rates at inception.
The size and direction of the accounting consequences of changes in own credit spread and ineffectiveness can be volatile from period to period, but do not alter the cash flows envisaged as part of the documented interest rate management strategy.
certain financial assets held by insurance operations and managed at fair value to meet liabilities under insurance contracts in 2006, approximately US$6 billion: 2005: US$4 billion of assets : financial liabilities under investment contracts and the related financial assets, when the change in value of the assets is correlated with the change in value of the liabilities to policyholders in 2006, approximately US$12 billion: 2005: US$8 billion of liabilities and related assets.
Under US GAAP, debt issues are generally reported at amortised cost.
There are circumstances, by virtue of different technical requirements and the transition arrangements to IFRSs, where derivatives providing an economic hedge for an asset or liability, and so designated under IFRSs, are not so treated under US GAAP, thereby creating a reconciliation difference and asymmetrical accounting between the asset and liability and the offsetting derivative.
Such derivatives result in an adjustment that is included in the reconciliations below, within Derivatives and hedge accounting.
Prior to 1 January 2006, debt issues which had embedded derivatives were also reported at amortised cost with any embedded derivatives bifurcated where required by SFAS 133.
From 1 January 2006, as described above, the Groups hybrid debt issues that contain an embedded derivative that would otherwise require bifurcation are accounted for in a consistent manner under both IFRSs and US GAAP, where such instruments are designated to be measured at fair value.
On the US GAAP balance sheet, such instruments are reclassified as Financial liabilities designated at fair value.
Under US GAAP, assets held to meet insurance investment contracts are reported as available-for-sale, with gains and losses taken directly to Other comprehensive income.
When the corresponding liability is reported at fair value, with movements reported immediately in net income, this also results in asymmetrical accounting being reflected in US GAAP net income.
All these adjustments are included as Derivatives and hedge accounting in the reconciliations below.
Available-for-sale securities IFRSs Treasury bills, debt securities and equity shares intended to be held on a continuing basis are classified as available-for-sale securities unless designated at fair value see above or classified as held-to-maturity.
Available-for-sale securities are initially measured at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in equity until the securities are either sold or impaired.
On the sale of available-for-sale securities, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in equity are recognised through the income statement and classified as Gains less losses from financial investments.
Interest income is recognised on such securities using the effective interest rate method, calculated over the assets expected life.
When dated available-for-sale securities are purchased at a premium or a discount, the premiums and discounts are included in the calculation of the effective interest rate.
If an available-for-sale security is determined to be impaired, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost, net of any principal repayments and amortisation, and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
410 Foreign exchange differences on available-for-sale monetary items, such as debt securities, denominated in foreign currency are recognised in net income to the extent that they relate to the translation of the amortised cost of the security.
1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 Debt securities and equity shares intended to be held on a continuing basis were classified as financial investments and included in the balance sheet at cost less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
Other participating interests were accounted for on the same basis.
Premiums or discounts on dated investment securities purchased at other than face value were amortised through the income statement over the period from date of purchase to date of maturity and included in Interest income.
Any gain or loss on realisation of these securities was recognised in the income statement as it arose and included in Gains less losses from financial investments.
Foreign exchange differences on foreign currency-denominated monetary items, including securities, were recognised in the income statement.
US GAAP Available-for-sale securities are measured at fair value with unrealised holding gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported net of applicable taxes and minority interests as a separate component of shareholders funds.
A decline in fair value below the cost of an available-for-sale or held-to-maturity security is treated as a realised loss and included in earnings if it is considered other than temporary.
The reduced fair value is then treated as the cost basis for the security.
A decline in fair value is generally considered other than temporary when management does not intend or expect to hold the investment for sufficient time to enable the fair value to rise back to the original cost of the investment.
Foreign exchange differences on available-for-sale securities denominated in foreign currency are excluded from earnings and recorded as part of a separate component of shareholders funds.
Impact In 2005, certain assets have been reported at fair value for IFRSs purposes see above.
Under US GAAP, equity shares that do not have a readily determinable fair value as defined in SFAS 115 are recorded at cost rather than at fair value under IFRSs.
Foreign exchange differences on available-for-sale securities denominated in foreign currency are recognised in Net income under IFRSs.
Under US GAAP, they are not reflected in net income but are deferred and recognised on maturity or sale of the security.
Unquoted equity securities HSBC holds certain equity securities whose market price is not quoted on a recognised exchange, but for which the fair value can be reliably measured either through an active market, comparison to similar equity securities which are quoted, or by using discounted cash flow calculations.
IFRSs Under IAS 39, equity securities which are not quoted on a recognised exchange, but for which fair value can be reliably measured, are required to be measured at fair value.
Accordingly, such securities are measured at fair value and classified as either available-for-sale securities, with changes in fair value recognised in equity, or as trading securities with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
US GAAP Under SFAS 115, equity securities that are not quoted on a recognised exchange are not considered to have a readily determinable fair value and are required to be measured at cost less any provisions for impairment.
Unquoted equity securities are reported within Other assets.
411 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 47 Impact Changes in fair value of equity securities for which IFRSs require recognition of the change in fair value and US GAAP requires the securities to be held at amortised cost, impact net income and shareholders equity when the security is classified as trading under IFRSs and impact shareholders equity when the security is classified as available-for-sale under IFRSs.
Loan origination IFRSs From 1 January 2005 Certain loan fee income and incremental directly attributable loan origination costs are amortised to the income statement over the life of the loan as part of the effective interest calculation under IAS 39.
1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 Prior to 1 January 2005, fee and commission income was accounted for in the period when receivable, except when charged to cover the costs of a continuing service to, or risk borne for, the customer, or was interest in nature.
In these cases, income was recognised on an appropriate basis over the relevant period.
Loan costs associated with origination were generally expensed as incurred.
US GAAP Certain loan fee income and direct but not necessarily incremental loan origination costs, including an apportionment of compensation and related benefit costs, are deferred and amortised to the income statement account over the life of the loan as an adjustment to interest income SFAS 91, Accounting for Non-refundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases.
Impact More costs are deferred and amortised under US GAAP, such as an apportionment of base salaries, than under IFRSs.
Base salaries are written off in the period they are incurred under IFRSs.
This difference in treatment results in increased net income and shareholders equity under US GAAP because, in the years presented, the extra cost deferral under US GAAP exceeds the amortisation of previously deferred costs.
Securitisations IFRSs The continued recognition of securitised assets is governed by a three-step process, which may be applied to the whole asset, or, in certain circumstances, a part of an asset: If the rights to the cash flows arising from securitised assets have been transferred to a third party, and substantially all the risks and rewards of the assets have been transferred, the assets concerned are derecognised.
If, subject to certain detailed criteria, the rights to the cash flows are retained by HSBC but there is a contractual obligation to pay them to another party, substantially all the risks and rewards of the assets have been transferred, and the securitised assets concerned are derecognised.
If some significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred, but some have also been retained, it must be determined whether or not control has been retained.
If control has been retained, HSBC continues to recognise the assets to the extent of its continuing involvement: if not, the assets are derecognised.
US GAAP SFAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Finance Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, requires that receivables that are sold to a special purpose entity SPE and securitised can only be derecognised and a gain or loss on sale recognised if the originator has surrendered control over the securitised assets.
Control is surrendered over transferred assets if and only if all of the following conditions are met: 412 The transferred assets are put presumptively beyond the reach of the transferor and its creditors, even in bankruptcy or other receivership.
Each holder of interests in the transferee i. e. holder of issued notes has the right to pledge or exchange their beneficial interests, and no condition constrains this right and provides more than a trivial benefit to the transferor.
The transferor does not maintain effective control over the assets through either an agreement that obligates the transferor to repurchase or to redeem them before their maturity, or through the ability to unilaterally cause the holder to return specific assets other than through a clean-up call.
If these conditions are not met the securitised assets continue to be consolidated.
When HSBC retains an interest in securitised assets, such as a servicing right or the right to residual cash flows from the special purpose entity, HSBC recognises this interest at fair value on sale of the assets to the SPE.
Impact Gains on sale of assets to securitisation vehicles are recognised under US GAAP in cases when no such gain is recognised under IFRSs.
This results in higher US GAAP net income in periods in which there is significant securitisation activity.
Since early 2004, HSBC has reduced securitisation activity that results in gain on sale accounting under US GAAP.
As a result, net income is lower under US GAAP because the amortisation of HSBCs retained interest in previous securitisations exceeds the gains on new transactions where a gain is recognised.
The new transactions largely replenish short-term loan assets held by existing vehicles.
Note l on page 430 gives further details of transactions during the year where assets are derecognised under US GAAP.
Loan impairment IFRSs When statistical models, using historic loss rates adjusted for economic conditions, provide evidence of impairment in portfolios of loans, their values are written down to their net recoverable amount.
The net recoverable amount is the present value of the estimated future recoveries discounted at the portfolios original effective interest rate.
The calculations include a reasonable estimate of recoveries on loans individually identified for write-off pursuant to HSBCs credit guidelines.
US GAAP When the delinquency status of loans in a portfolio is such that there is no realistic prospect of recovery, the loans are written off in full, or to recoverable value where collateral exists.
Delinquency depends on the number of days payments is overdue.
The delinquency status is applied consistently across similar loan products in accordance with HSBCs credit guidelines.
When local regulators mandate the delinquency status at which write-off must occur for different retail loan products and these regulations reasonably reflect estimated recoveries on individual loans, this basis of measuring loan impairment is reflected in US GAAP accounting.
Cash recoveries relating to pools of such written-off loans, if any, are reported as loan recoveries upon collection.
Impact Under both IFRSs and US GAAP, HSBCs policy and regulatory instructions mandate that individual loans evidencing adverse credit characteristics which indicate no reasonable likelihood of recovery, are written off.
When, on a portfolio basis, cash flows can reasonably be estimated in aggregate from these written-off loans, an asset equal to the present value of the future cash flows is recognised under IFRSs.
No asset for future recoveries arising from written-off assets was recognised in the balance sheet under IFRSs prior to 1 January 2005.
413 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 47 Interest recognition IFRSs The calculation of effective interest rates under IAS 39 requires an estimate of all fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate be included.
US GAAP FAS 91 also generally requires all fees and costs associated with originating a loan to be recognised as interest but, when the interest rate increases during the term of the loan, it prohibits the recognition of interest income to the extent that the net investment in the loan would increase to an amount greater than the amount at which the borrower could settle the obligation.
Impact When HSBC provides introductory incentives in the form of either a low or nil interest rate for the early period of a loan, interest income on such products is recognised under IFRSs on the basis of the overall effective interest rate over the expected life of the product.
No interest income is recognised during the incentive period under US GAAP.
Mortgage servicing rights IFRSs Intangible assets that have a finite useful life, such as mortgage servicing rights, are stated at cost less amortisation and accumulated impairment losses and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful life is the lower of legal duration and expected economic life.
US GAAP SFAS 156 Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets was issued by the FASB in March 2006.
SFAS 156 amends SFAS 140 Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities with respect to the accounting for separately recognised servicing assets and liabilities.
SFAS 156 requires that all separately recognised servicing assets and liabilities be initially measured at fair value with subsequent measurement at either fair value, with changes in fair value reported in the income statement when they occur, or using the amortisation method.
At the date of adoption, SFAS 156 permits a one-time reclassification of available-for-sale securities to trading securities where those securities are identified as offsetting exposure to changes in the fair value of servicing assets and liabilities that have been elected to be subsequently measured at fair value.
HSBC elected to adopt SFAS 156 from 1 January 2006.
From 1 January 2006 HSBC elected to subsequently measure at fair value certain classes of mortgage servicing rights held by its US subsidiaries.
Impact Prior to 1 January 2006 the amortisation method was used to account for mortgage servicing rights under US GAAP and, therefore, no difference with IFRSs arose.
Upon adoption of SFAS 156 the cumulative effect adjustment to US GAAP retained earnings, representing the difference between the fair value and cost less amortisation of mortgage servicing rights, was immaterial.
At 1 January 2006 an election was made to reclassify certain securities used by one of HSBCs US subsidiaries to offset changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights from available-for-sale financial investments to trading assets.
At 31 December 2005 those securities had a cost of US$115m and a fair value of US$111m.
This resulted in a transfer out of US GAAP other comprehensive income of the accumulated loss of US$4m at 1 January 2006, with an offsetting amount recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings.
In 2006 the net difference between the fair value adjustment of the mortgage servicing asset and the offsetting changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights classified as trading assets is recorded as an adjustment to US GAAP net income.
414 Unearned commission income IFRSs In accordance with IAS 18, revenue on commissions received from third party insurance providers is recognised when HSBC does not expect to render further service under the contract, taking into account expectations of future policy termination.
US GAAP Under Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
104 SAB 104, revenue should be recognised when, along with other criteria, the sellers price to the buyer is fixed or determinable.
Commissions which are earned when the customer has the right to cancel and receive a proportionate refund are not considered to be fixed and determinable under US GAAP until the cancellation privilege expires.
Cancellation privileges generally expire rateably over the contract.
Under the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide for Deposit and Lending Institutions: Insurance Commissions received from an independent insurer should be deferred and systematically amortised to income over the life of the related insurance contract.
Impact The difference between recognising revenue based on the likelihood that future services will be rendered and rateably over the life of the policy creates a timing difference in the recognition of revenue under IFRSs and US GAAP.
Net income under US GAAP will generally be lower, but would be higher if new commission revenue decreased below the level of commissions earned from prior years policies.
The liability for customers fees which have not been earned under US GAAP, net of amounts deferred under IFRSs, decrease shareholders net assets under US GAAP.
Interests in own shares held IFRSs In accordance with IAS 32, long positions in HSBC Holdings shares are deducted from shareholders funds.
No gains or losses are recognised on own shares held.
IAS 32 also applies to derivatives over HSBCs own shares, when they meet the definition of an equity instrument, and HSBC shares held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts.
US GAAP AICPA Accounting Research Bulletin 51, Consolidated Financial Statements ARB 51, requires a reduction in shareholders equity for own shares held.
The rules in ARB 51 do not extend to derivatives over own shares.
AICPA Accounting Research Bulletin 43 Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins also requires a reduction in shareholders equity for own shares held.
HSBC shares held as long-term insurance assets attributable to policyholders are classified as an asset when the criteria for classification as separate accounts are met.
Impact Certain HSBC insurance operations hold shares in HSBC as part of policyholder funds that qualify for classification as separate accounts.
These shares represent an addition to shareholders equity for US GAAP purposes and are reported within Other assets with gains and losses during the period reported in Other income, where they are matched with corresponding movements in the amounts attributable to policyholders.
No such gains and losses are recognised under IFRSs and the cost of the shares is deducted from shareholders equity.
415 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 47 Revaluation of property IFRSs As allowed by the transition rules of IFRS 1, HSBC elected to adopt the value of all its properties held for its own use as at 1 January 2004 as their deemed cost at that date.
Assets are carried at cost less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Investment properties are carried at current market values with gains or losses thereon recognised in the income statement for the period.
Investment properties are not depreciated.
US GAAP US GAAP does not permit revaluations of property, including investment property, although it requires recognition of asset impairment.
Any realised surplus or deficit is, therefore, reflected in net income upon disposal of the property.
Depreciation is charged on all properties based on cost.
Impact Under IFRSs, the value of property held for own use reflects revaluation surpluses recorded prior to 1 January 2004.
Consequently, the values of tangible fixed assets and shareholders' equity are lower under US GAAP than under IFRSs.
There is a correspondingly lower depreciation charge and higher net income under US GAAP, partially offset by higher gains or smaller losses on the disposal of fixed assets.
For investment properties, net income under US GAAP does not reflect the gain or loss recorded under IFRSs for the period.
Restructuring provisions IFRSs In accordance with IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, provisions are made for any direct costs arising from a business that management is committed to restructure, sell or terminate: has a detailed formal plan and has raised a valid expectation of carrying out that plan.
US GAAP SFAS 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, requires that the fair value of a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognised when the liability is incurred.
Accordingly, provisions are recognised upon the implementation of the restructuring plan.
Impact The recognition of costs associated with plans to restructure and streamline operations is earlier under IFRSs than under US GAAP, for example, where there is a time lag between developing and communicating a formal plan, and putting it into practice.
This resulted in marginally higher net income and shareholders equity under US GAAP in 2005.
Consolidation of special purpose entities or variable interest entities IFRSs Under the IASBs Standing Interpretations Committee SIC Interpretation 12 SIC-12, a special purpose entity SPE should be consolidated when the substance of the relationship between an enterprise and the SPE indicates that the SPE is controlled by that entity.
US GAAP FASB Interpretation No.
46 revised December 2003, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities FIN 46R, requires consolidation of variable interest entities VIEs in which HSBC is the primary beneficiary and disclosures in respect of all other VIEs in which it has a significant variable interest.
A VIE is an entity in which equity investors hold an investment that does not possess the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or does not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities.
416 HSBC is the primary beneficiary of a VIE if its variable interests absorb a majority of the entitys expected losses.
Variable interests are contractual, ownership or other pecuniary interests in an entity that change with changes in the fair value of an entitys net assets exclusive of variable interests.
If no party absorbs a majority of the entitys expected losses, HSBC consolidates the VIE if it receives a majority of the expected residual returns of the entity.
Impact When HSBC is deemed the primary beneficiary under US GAAP, but does not consolidate the vehicle under IFRSs, the assets and liabilities of that vehicle are consolidated on the US GAAP balance sheet.
This results in a grossing up of the balance sheet but does not have a material impact on net income for the period or on shareholders' equity.
When HSBC is deemed not to be the primary beneficiary under US GAAP of a vehicle that is consolidated under IFRSs, the assets and liabilities of that vehicle are fide-consolidated in the US GAAP balance sheet.
This results in a reclassification in the 2004 balance sheet but does not have a material impact on shareholders' equity or on net income for 2004 or 2005.
Long-term insurance assets and liabilities IFRSs Long-term insurance fund assets, excluding own shares held, are classified in accordance with IAS 39, for example, available-for-sale securities, or financial instruments designated at fair value.
The accounting for these financial assets is consistent with other holdings of similar assets.
Liabilities attributable to policyholders under insurance contracts are recognised in accordance with IFRS 4 and appropriate actuarial principles as Liabilities under insurance contracts issued.
Liabilities attributable to policyholders under linked investment contracts are recognised as financial liabilities designated at fair value and classified under Financial liabilities designated at fair value.
US GAAP Under the Statement of Position issued by the AICPA 03-1 SOP 03-1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Non-traditional and Long-duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts, which became fully effective in 2004, when long-term insurance assets qualify for separate accounting they are measured at fair value and are reported in the financial statements as a summary total, with an equivalent summary total for related liabilities.
Otherwise, assets that do not qualify for separate accounting and that represent policyholders funds are accounted for and recognised as general account assets, that is consistent with other holdings of similar assets.
Any related liability is accounted for as a general account liability.
Impact Long-term insurance assets that are recorded in accounts meeting the definition of separate accounts in SOP 03-1 are measured at fair value through net income and disclosed in a single line, Other assets, in the US GAAP balance sheet.
Net liabilities arising due to repo transactions of US$18,094 million 2005: US$10,005 million, US$13,600 million 2005: US$13,523 million and US$65,445 million 2005: US$52,218 million are included in Deposits by banks, Customer accounts and Trading liabilities respectively.
Average repo liabilities during the year were US$102,715 million 2005: US$74,143 million.
The maximum quarter-end repo liability outstanding during the year was US$109,689 million 2005: US$78,590 million.
At 31 December 2006, collateral received under reverse repo transactions which HSBC had the right to sell or repledge amounted to US$161,638 million gross 2005: US$103,977 million.
Approximately US$119 billion 2005: approximately US$79 billion of the collateral obtained from reverse repo transactions had been sold or repledged by HSBC in connection with repo transactions and securities sold not yet purchased.
HSBC also enters into stock lending and borrowing transactions by which either cash or other securities may be received in exchange for stock.
At 31 December 2006, stock borrowing transactions where the securities borrowed were subject to sale or repledge amounted to US$26,370 million 2005: US$25,783 million.
420 Approximately US$17 billion 2005: US$18 billion of the consideration received has been sold or repledged in connection with stock borrowing transactions.
a Pension and post-retirement costs On 31 December 2006, HSBC adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post-retirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No.
87, 88, 106 and 132 R SFAS 158, SFAS 158 requires HSBC to recognise the funded status of its pension plans in a manner similar to IAS 19.
The provisions of SFAS 87 Employers accounting for pensions and SFAS 158 have been applied to HSBCs main defined benefit pension plans, which make up approximately 96 per cent of all HSBCs schemes by plan assets.
For non-US schemes, HSBC has applied SFAS 87 with effect from 30 June 1992 as it was not feasible to apply as at 1 January 1989, the date specified in the standard.
Under the provisions of SFAS 87, when a pension plans accumulated benefit obligation the value of the benefits accrued based on employee service up to the balance sheet date exceeds the fair value of its assets, an additional minimum pension liability equal to this excess is recognised by the employer to the extent that the excess is greater than any accrual which has already been established for unfunded pension costs.
Simultaneously, an intangible asset is established equal to the lower of the liability recognised for the unfunded benefit obligation and the amount of any unrecognised prior service cost.
At 31 December 2006, HSBC recognised an additional minimum pension liability of US$3,130 million prior to adoption of FAS158 2005: US$3,206 million in respect of its unfunded accumulated benefit obligation.
Plans with an aggregated projected benefit obligation of US$22,595 million and assets with an aggregated fair value of US$18,795 million had a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets.
The projected benefit obligations at 31 December 2005 for HSBCs main pension plans have been calculated using the same financial assumptions as detailed in Note 7.
The accumulated benefit obligation in respect of the above schemes was: 2005 US$m HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme............................................................................................................................ 19,709 Other schemes............................................................................................................................................................. 5,241 The projected benefit obligations at 31 December 2006 and 2005 for HSBCs main post-retirement healthcare plans have been calculated using the same financial assumptions as detailed in Note 7. b Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, investments in associates and interests in joint ventures when the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair value of HSBCs share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Under IFRSs and before them, UK GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or after 1 January 1998 is included in the balance sheet in Goodwill and intangible assets in respect of subsidiary undertakings, and in Interests in associates and joint ventures in respect of associates and joint ventures.
Capitalised goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis until the adoption of IFRSs on 1 January 2004, since then it is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment testing.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998 was charged against reserves in the year of acquisition.
This goodwill was not reinstated on the balance sheet upon adoption of IFRSs.
Under US GAAP, goodwill on acquisitions made before 1 July 2001, including those made before 1 January 1998, would have been capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life.
Goodwill on acquisitions made after 1 July 2001 is capitalised but not amortised, and is subject to annual impairment testing.
Goodwill on acquisitions made before 1 July 2001 ceased to be amortised on 1 January 2002 and is subject to annual impairment testing.
At 31 December 2006, the cost of goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries on a US GAAP basis was US$37,670 million 2005: US$34,147 million: 2004: US$36,084 million and the accumulated amortisation of goodwill was US$3,952 million 2005: US$3,873 million: 2004: US$4,385 million.
The additional intangible assets recognised under US GAAP represent those acquired in business combinations during the period between SFAS 141 Business combinations becoming effective on 30 June 2001 and IFRSs being adopted on 1 January 2004.
They primarily comprise credit card and other loan relationships, merchant relationships and other intangibles assumed on the acquisition of HSBC Finance.
The provision for impairment in 2006 relates primarily to a write down of a merchant relationship.
Provision for impairment in 2005 relates to the release of a provision for the write-down of mortgage servicing rights, as prepayment rates slowed.
Changes in the value of mortgage servicing rights in 2006 follow the adoption of SFAS 156 on 1 January 2006.
HSBC conducts an annual impairment test of intangible assets which are not subject to annual amortisation since HSBC determines these assets have indefinite lives.
As a result of this testing in 2006, no impairment charge was recorded 2005: US$13 million was recorded relating to a trade name in the UK.
Weighted average At 31 December 2006 amortisation Accumulated Carrying period Cost Amortisation Value Months US$m US$m US$m Intangible assets subject to annual amortisation Purchased credit card relationships and related programmes..................................................... 98 2,503 636 1,867 Retail services merchant relationship.................. 60 270 203 67 Other loan related relationships........................... 109 333 135 198 Technology, customer lists and other contracts.. 61 3,162 2,056 1,106 Core deposit relationships.................................... 210 233 144 89 Other..................................................................... 60 649 80 569 7,150 3,254 3,896 Intangible assets not subject to annual amortisation Trade name........................................................... 928 13 915 8,078 3,267 Intangible assets measured at fair value Mortgage servicing rights.................................... 474 5,285 The intangible asset amortisation expense under US GAAP for the next five years is estimated to be: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Amortisation charge.......................... 765 662 548 515 411 d Derivatives and hedge accounting Under IFRSs, all derivatives are recorded at fair value, consistent with US GAAP.
Under IFRSs, HSBC has elected either hedge accounting or fair value option for certain economic hedging relationships.
With the 423 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 47 exception of US operating subsidiaries, HSBC has not elected hedge accounting in its US GAAP financial statements.
HSBCs US operating subsidiaries designate certain derivative financial instruments as qualifying hedging instruments under SFAS 133.
HSBC utilised the shortcut method when the critical terms of the hedge instrument were identical to those of the hedged item at the hedge inception date.
HSBCs US subsidiaries made use of the assumption of no ineffectiveness in its fair value hedge accounting for short-cut hedges.
As a result, no retrospective or prospective assessment of effectiveness was required and no hedge ineffectiveness was recognised.
All other hedge relationships were accounted for under the 'long-haul' method whereby effectiveness is assessed and ineffectiveness on effective hedges is recorded in the income statement.
During 2006, new designations of hedges were made using the long-haul method of accounting under SFAS 133 and certain relationships have been re-designated using this method.
As a result, there were no longer any cash flow hedges or fair value hedges using the shortcut method of accounting at 31 December 2006.
The following table summarises HSBCs hedges of financial instruments that have been designated and qualify as effective hedges under SFAS 133 at the end of the period.
Nominal values Number of derivatives Fair value Cash flow Fair value Cash flow Fair value Cash flow Fair value Cash flow hedges hedges hedges hedges hedges hedges hedges hedges 2006 2006 2005 2005 2006 2006 2005 2005 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Financial investments: Available for sale debt securities Shortcut.......... 1 Long-haul....... 1.8 0.2 52 10 Customer deposits Shortcut........... Long-haul........ 10.9 6.8 2 24 1 17 Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities Shortcut........... 3.0 16 Long-haul........ 33.0 52.1 18.2 46.8 112 160 45 165 Total................... 34.8 63.0 21.4 53.6 166 184 73 182 Fair value hedges HSBCs US operating subsidiaries designate certain derivative financial instruments as qualifying fair value hedges of certain fixed rate assets and liabilities under SFAS 133.
In order to qualify initially, hedge effectiveness is assessed and demonstrated on a prospective basis utilising statistical regression analysis.
Since 1 January 2005, almost all derivatives designated as fair value hedges under US GAAP in HSBCs US operating subsidiaries have been reported under the fair value option for IFRSs purposes, with movements in fair value reported as Net income from financial instruments designated as at fair value.
HSBCs US operating subsidiaries have also elected to record financial instruments at fair value for which fair value hedge accounting is not utilised for US GAAP.
Reporting of these arrangements as fair value hedges under US GAAP resulted in increased net income for 2006 of US$194 million, which included US$348 million arising from elimination of losses due to movements in own credit spread recorded in IFRS net income.
Off-setting the increase to net income under US GAAP arising for the elimination of losses due to own credit spread is a decrease to US GAAP net income of US$134 million due to amortization of hedge valuation adjustments for fide-designated hedge relationships under US GAAP that are accounted as FVO under IFRSs.
Reporting of these arrangements as fair value hedges under US GAAP resulted in decreased net income for 2005 of US$179 million, including US$7 million arising from elimination of gains due to movements in own credit spread recorded in IFRSs net income and reduced ineffectiveness of US$172 million on shortcut fair value 424 hedges for US GAAP purposes.
In addition, there were US$9 million of gains on such derivatives that did not qualify for hedge accounting under US GAAP and amortisation of hedge valuation adjustments for fidedesignated hedge relationships.
On electing to report under the fair value option under IAS 39, unamortised purchase accounting adjustments on HSBC Finance Corporation's own debt were eliminated through retained earnings upon transition to IAS 39 on 1 January 2005.
As a result, a US$27 million benefit 2005: US$298 million benefit to US GAAP net income was not recognised under IFRSs.
Cash flow hedges HSBCs US operating subsidiaries designate under SFAS 133 certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and cross-currency contracts, as qualifying cash flow hedges of the forecast repricing of certain deposit liabilities and issues of debt.
A number of variable rate commercial loans were also subject to cash flow hedges up until 2004.
In order to qualify initially, hedge effectiveness is assessed and demonstrated on a prospective basis utilising both statistical regression analysis and the cumulative dollar offset method.
The latter is used in order to satisfy the retrospective assessment of effectiveness for SFAS 133, and subsequent ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement on a monthly basis.
The time value component of the derivative contracts is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
Since 1 January 2005, such hedging arrangements have been recognised as cash flow hedges for IFRSs purposes.
US GAAP net income for 2006 was lower than that under IFRSs by US$20 million 2005: US$6 million, relating to differences in amortisation of other comprehensive income for fide-designated hedge relationships under US GAAP and IFRS and unrecorded ineffectiveness on shortcut cash flow hedges during 2005 for US GAAP purposes.
Trading derivatives From 1 January 2005, certain hedging relationships outside North America were elected and qualified as fair value hedges, were designated under the fair value option, or were elected and qualified as cash flow hedges under IAS 39, but were not elected as hedges under SFAS 133.
The mark to market for these derivatives has been reported directly in net income for US GAAP purposes.
For fair value hedges recognised under IFRSs, no corresponding, offsetting fair value movement of the hedged item with respect to the hedged risk has been recorded for US GAAP purposes.
For hedging relationships designated as at fair value for IFRSs purposes, no fair value movement in respect of own debt is recorded under US GAAP.
The effect of this was to increase US GAAP net income by US$214 million 2005: US$1,266 million reduction, net of elimination of a loss under IFRS of US$41 million 2005: US$76 million loss of own credit spread, outside North America.
Fair value option HSBC has also applied the fair value option under IFRSs to groups of financial assets and liabilities which are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis, and to financial instruments containing embedded derivatives see Note 3.
In addition, movements in the fair value of certain liabilities which meet the definition of held for trading under IAS 39 are taken through net income.
US GAAP does not include a fair value election and does not generally permit liabilities to be reported at fair value.
From 1 January 2006, with HSBCs adoption of SFAS 155, the Groups hybrid debt issues that contain an embedded derivative that would otherwise require bifurcation, are accounted for in a consistent manner under both IFRSs and US GAAP, where such instruments are designated to be measured at fair value.
The elimination of all other fair value option accounting increased US GAAP net income for 2006 by US$193 million 2005: US$733 million reduction prior to the adoption of SFAS 155.
425 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 47 e Foreign exchange gains on available-for-sale securities HSBC holds, in a number of different currencies, securities which are classified as available-for-sale.
For example, in the private bank in Switzerland, which has the US dollar as its reporting currency, HSBC holds eurodenominated bonds funded in euros and Swiss franc securities funded in Swiss francs.
No foreign exchange exposure arises from this because, although the value of the assets in US dollar terms changes according to the exchange rate, there is an identical offsetting change in the US dollar value of the related funding.
Under IFRSs both the assets and the liabilities are translated at closing exchange rates and the differences between historical book value and current value are reflected in foreign exchange trading income.
This reflects the economic substance of holding currency assets financed by currency liabilities.
However, under US GAAP accounting rules, the change in value of the investments classified as available-forsale is taken directly to reserves while the offsetting change in US dollar terms of the borrowing is taken to earnings.
This leads to an accounting result which does not reflect either the underlying risk position or the economics of the transactions.
It is also a situation that will reverse on maturity of the asset or earlier sale.
A similar difference arises when foreign currency exposures on foreign currency assets are covered using forward contracts but HSBC does not manage these hedges to conform with the detailed US hedge designation requirements.
The result is that for 2006, US GAAP net income was increased by US$1,203 million 2005: increased by US$2,235 million: 2004: increased by US$1,069 million compared with IFRSs profits.
There was no difference in shareholders equity between IFRSs and US GAAP as a result of this item.
Approximately 50 per cent of the adjustment for the year ended 2006 reflected the level of adjustments in prior periods on the maturity or disposal of securities.
The remainder of the adjustment reflected a weakening of the US dollar, where a loss on US dollar denominated available-for-sale securities in subsidiaries with sterling as their reporting currency was offset by gains on sterling and euro denominated available-for-sale securities in subsidiaries with the US dollar and the Hong Kong dollar as their reporting currencies.
This loss has been recorded in IFRSs net income but is recorded directly in Other comprehensive income under US GAAP.
Any gain on foreign currency liabilities funding the securities is recorded in net income under both IFRSs and US GAAP.
f Financial investments Under US GAAP, HSBCs financial investments with a readily determinable market value are classified as available-for-sale securities, except for certain securities held by Republic New York Corporation at acquisition, which were classified as held-to-maturity.
All other securities are categorised as trading securities.
The amortised cost of available-for-sale investment securities which are subject to the provisions of SFAS 115 was US$216,096 million 2005: US$188,868 million under US GAAP.
During the year, excluding the effects of foreign exchange, US$910 million 2005: losses of US$899 million: 2004: gains of US$376 million of net unrealised gains on available-for-sale securities were included in Other comprehensive income.
US$644 million 2005: gains of US$626 million: 2004: gains of US$476 million of net gains were reclassified out of Other comprehensive income and recognised as part of income for the year.
It is HSBCs policy, under both IFRSs and US GAAP, to recognise in the income statement an impairment if the fair value of a financial investment significantly declines below its cost or if the decline is prolonged over a period exceeding six months.
The only exception to this policy is in respect of debt securities whose decline in market value is due solely to an increase in underlying interest rates, and which HSBC has the ability and intent to hold until recovery.
None of the securities disclosed in the table above were considered  impaired at 31 December 2006 or 2005.
A valuation allowance is established to reduce deferred tax assets if, based on available evidence, it is considered more likely than not that any of the deferred tax assets will not be realised.
At 31 December 2006, HSBC had recognised deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses net of valuation allowances totalling US$180 million 2005: US$223 million, of which US$4 million 2005: US$4 million expire within two to five years and US$176 million 2005: US$219 million expire in 5 years or more.
h Loans and advances Loans assessed under SFAS 114 Accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan SFAS 114 was amended by SFAS 118 Accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan income recognition and disclosures.
SFAS 114 addresses accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan by specifying how allowances for credit losses for certain loans should be determined.
A loan is impaired when it is probable that the creditor will be unable to collect all amounts in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan agreement.
Impairment is measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective rate or, as an expedient, at the fair value of the loans collateral.
Leases, smaller-balance homogeneous loans and debt securities are excluded from the scope of SFAS 114.
At 31 December 2005, HSBC estimated that the difference between the carrying value of its loan portfolio on the basis of SFAS 114 and its value in HSBCs IFRSs financial statements was such that no adjustment to net income or total shareholders equity was required.
The value of impaired loans at 31 December 2006 was US$13,800 million 2005: US$11,535 million.
Of this total, loans which were included within the scope of SFAS 114 and for which a provision had been established amounted to US$5,944 million 2005: US$5,082 million.
The impairment reserve in respect of these loans estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 114 was US$2,572 million 2005: US$2,675 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2006, impaired loans, including those excluded from the scope of SFAS 114, averaged US$11,791 million 2005: US$11,289 million and interest income recognised on these loans was US$276 million 2005: US$120 million.
428 Loans outside the scope of SFAS 114 For smaller-balance homogeneous loans for which future cash flows from written-off balances can reasonably be estimated on a portfolio basis, an asset equal to the present value of the cash flows is recognised under IFRSs as it was previously under UK GAAP.
This asset is not recognised for US GAAP purposes.
This divergence resulted in lower net income in 2006 of US$45 million 2005: US$20 million higher under US GAAP compared with IFRSs, and a reduction in the carrying value of loans and advances to customers and shareholders equity at 31 December 2006 of US$372 million 2005: US$327 million.
i Earnings per share Basic earnings per share under US GAAP, SFAS 128 Earnings per Share, is calculated by dividing net income attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company of US$16,268 million 2005: US$14,703 million: 2004: US$12,506 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue in 2006 of 11,214 million 2005: 11,042 million: 2004: US$10,916 million.
Diluted earnings per share under US GAAP is calculated by dividing net income, which requires no adjustment for the effects of dilutive ordinary potential shares, by the weighted average number of shares outstanding plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares in 2006 of 11,324 million 2005: 11,175 million: 2004: 11,063 million.
j Variable interest entities VIEs Nature, purpose and activities of VIEs with which HSBC is involved HSBC uses VIE structures in the normal course of business in a variety of activities outlined below, but primarily to facilitate client needs.
HSBCs involvement in VIEs is, therefore, commercially driven.
VIEs are only used after careful consideration is given to the most appropriate structure to achieve HSBCs objectives from control, risk allocation, taxation and regulatory perspectives.
The main VIEs are discussed below.
i Asset-backed conduits ABCs and securitisation vehicles ABCs and securitisation vehicles are structures in which interests in consumer and commercial receivables are sold to investors.
ABCs generally consist of entities which purchase assets from clients to meet their financing needs, while securitisation vehicles generally acquire assets originated by HSBC itself and thereby provide HSBC with a cost-effective source of financing.
Under both structures, commercial paper, notes, or equity interests are issued to investors to fund the purchase of receivables, and cash received from the receivables is used to service the finance provided by the investors.
In certain instances, HSBC receives fees for providing liquidity facility commitments and for acting as administrator of the vehicle.
HSBCs exposure to loss generally arises from commitments to provide back-up liquidity facilities for the vehicles: interest-rate swaps in which HSBC is the counterparty: retained or acquired interests in the receivables sold: or acquired interests in the vehicles themselves.
In certain vehicles, the risk of loss to HSBC is reduced by credit enhancements provided by the originator of the receivables or other parties.
In addition to these securitisation vehicles, HSBC primarily through its North American subsidiaries securitises assets through entities that are not considered VIEs, including government-sponsored financing vehicles and vehicles considered qualifying special-purpose entities under US GAAP.
These entities are not consolidated under US GAAP although certain of them are consolidated under IFRSs.
ii Infrastructure projects and funds HSBC acts as an arranger for both public and private infrastructure projects and funds.
The use of VIE structures in such projects is common as a method of attracting a wider class of investor by dividing into tranches the risk associated with such projects.
HSBCs exposure to loss generally arises from the provision of subordinated or mezzanine debt finance to projects, either directly or through a consolidated investment fund investing in infrastructure projects.
HSBC is deemed to be the primary beneficiary of an infrastructure project or fund when its investment in a projects equity, subordinated debt or mezzanine debt, or its interest in a fund, is at a level at which it absorbs the majority of the expected losses or residual returns of the project or fund.
429 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 47 Application of FIN 46R FIN 46R requires the consolidation of VIEs in which HSBC is the primary beneficiary, and disclosures in respect of other VIEs in which HSBC has a significant variable interest.
Under IFRSs, HSBC consolidates entities in which it has a controlling interest.
For SPEs, determination of the entity that holds the controlling interest involves a balanced assessment of certain factors, including an analysis of risks and rewards incidental to their activities.
HSBCs interests in entities deemed to be VIEs may result in differences in accounting and disclosure treatment under US GAAP.
The remaining balance consisted of guaranteed pension funds, investment funds, and other entities.
Certain of these entities with assets of approximately US$54,145 million at 31 December 2006 2005: US$19,475 million were consolidated by HSBC in its IFRSs financial statements.
There was no significant impact on net income under US GAAP for the year ended 31 December 2006 as a result of consolidating these VIEs.
HSBC also had significant involvement in, but was not the primary beneficiary of, VIEs with total assets of approximately US$101.3 billion 2005: US$86.2 billion, including asset-backed commercial paper conduits and securitisation vehicles with assets of approximately US$32.5 billion 2005: US$14.7 billion, infrastructure projects and funds of approximately US$6.0 billion 2005: US$6.2 billion, and interests in investment funds, low income housing tax credit partnerships, guaranteed pension funds, government debt restructuring programmes and other entities.
HSBCs maximum exposure to loss in relation to these entities was estimated at US$19.5 billion 2005: US$9.7 billion which arose from guarantees, retained interests and recourse liabilities.
HSBC was also involved in other investment funds and similar entities that are considered VIEs for which its involvement was limited to that of administrator, investment adviser, or other service provider.
In addition, HSBC had an interest in certain capital funding vehicles that are consolidated under IFRSs.
However, under US GAAP, these vehicles were not recognised on HSBCs balance sheet because it was not the primary beneficiary.
k Consolidated cash flow statement HSBC prepares its cash flow statement in accordance with IAS 7 Cash Flow Statements, which is consistent with the objectives and principles of SFAS 95 Statement of Cash Flows as amended by SFAS 104 Statement of Cash Flows Net Reporting of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments and Classification of Cash Flows from Hedging Transactions.
l Securitisations HSBC Finance Following the acquisition of HSBC Finance in 2003, HSBC increased its securitisation activity and the following discussion relates only to HSBC Finances securitisation activities including securitised credit card receivables transferred to HSBC Bank USA.
In other HSBC entities such activities do not represent a significant part of HSBCs business and retained interests in securitisations are not significant.
In the third quarter of 2004, HSBC began to structure all new collateralised funding transactions as secured financings.
In a secured financing, the underlying receivables and debt remain on HSBCs balance sheet.
HSBC 430 does not recognise a gain in a secured financing transaction.
At 31 December 2006, secured financings of US$23.9 billion included in long-term debt were secured by US$30.5 billion of customer loans.
Prior to the third quarter of 2004, HSBC sold MasterCard and Visa private label, personal non-credit card and vehicle finance loans in various securitisation transactions.
HSBC continues to service and receive servicing fees on the outstanding balance of these securitised loans and retains rights to future cash flows arising from the loans after the investors receive their contractual return.
HSBC has also, in certain cases, retained other subordinated interests in these securitisations.
These transactions result in the recording of interest-only strip receivables, which represent the value of the future residual cash flows from securitised loans.
The investors and the securitisation trusts have only limited recourse to HSBC assets for failure of debtors to pay.
That recourse is limited to HSBCs rights to future cash flows and any subordinated interest retained.
Servicing assets and liabilities are not recognised in conjunction with securitisations since HSBC receives adequate compensation relative to current market rates to service the loans sold.
 revenue includes income associated with the current and prior period securitisation of loans with limited recourse structured as sales under US GAAP.
Such income includes gains on sales, net of the estimate of probable credit losses under the recourse provisions, servicing income and excess spread relating to those loans.
These replenishments totalled US$6 billion in 2006 2005: US$17.5 billion.
Cash flows received from securitisation trusts were as follows: Personal Real estate Vehicle MasterCard Private non-credit secured finance Visa label card Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2006 Proceeds from initial securitisations..........
At 31 December 2006, the sensitivity of the current fair value of the interest-only strip receivables to an immediate 10 per cent and 20 per cent unfavourable change in assumptions are presented in the table below.
These sensitivities are based on assumptions used to value interest-only strip receivables at 31 December 2006.
As the figures indicate, the change in fair value based on a 10 per cent variation in assumptions cannot necessarily be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear.
Also, in this table, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the residual cash flow is calculated independently from any change in another assumption.
In reality, changes in one factor may contribute to changes in another for example, increases in market interest rates may result in lower prepayments which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.
Furthermore, the estimated fair values as disclosed should not be considered indicative of future earnings on these assets.
Static pool credit losses are calculated by summing actual and projected future credit losses and dividing them by the original balance of each pool of asset.
Due to the short-term revolving nature of MasterCard, Visa, and private label loan balances, the weighted average percentage of static pool credit losses is not considered to be materially different from the weighted average charge-off assumptions used in determining the fair value of interest-only strip receivables in the table above.
At 31 December 2006, static pool credit losses for vehicle finance loans securitised in 2003 were estimated to be 10 per cent.
Activities of other North American subsidiaries Through its North American operating subsidiaries, HSBC began acquiring residential mortgage loans from unrelated third parties in the middle of 2005 with the intention of securitising those loans.
In 2006, certain loans originated by HSBC were also included in this securitisation program.
HSBC does not service loans acquired from third parties in connection with these securitisations.
In addition to securitising loans, HSBC also securitises the net interest margin NIM associated with certain interests it retains from loan securitisations.
A NIM securitisation is a structured finance transaction backed by the cash flows on certain classes of retained interests in loan securitisations, primarily residual interests.
The notes issued in a NIM securitisation are collateralised by the excess spread left after absorbing any realised losses and satisfying the required over collateralisation levels in the underlying securitisation deal.
HSBC recorded pre-tax gains of US$113 million 2005: US$3 million from securitisation transactions.
Proceeds received from new securitisations were US$18 billion 2005: US$576 million, and cash flows from retained interests were US$35 million and 2005: US$7 million.
432 In connection with the securitisations, HSBCs retained interests include investment grade certificates of US$316 million and other residual interests of US$176 million at 31 December 2006.
Residual interests of US$14 million were retained at 31 December 2005.
Retained interests are recorded in trading assets and are measured at fair value.
Investment grade certificates are valued using quoted market prices.
Key assumptions used during 2006 and 2005 in measuring the fair value of residual interests at the date of securitisation are presented in the table below.
Also, in this table, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the retained interests is calculated independently from any change in another assumption.
Future US GAAP accounting developments The Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB has issued the following accounting standards, which will become fully effective in future financial statements.
In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No.
48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement No.
FIN 48 establishes threshold and measurement attributes for financial statement measurement and recognition of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition.
FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after 15 December 2006.
Adoption of FIN 48 is not expected to have a material effect on the US GAAP information in HSBCs financial statements.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157 Fair Value Measurements.
SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in US GAAP and requires expanded disclosures about fair value measurements.
SFAS 157 applies under many other extant US GAAP accounting pronouncements which prescribe that fair value is the relevant measurement, although the Statement does not extend the use of fair value for measurement purposes.
SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after 15 November 2007.
HSBC is currently evaluating the impact that adoption of SFAS 157 will have on its US GAAP financial statements.
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 159 The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
SFAS 159 creates a fair value option under which an entity may irrevocably elect fair value as the initial and subsequent measurement attribute for certain financial assets and liabilities on a contract-by-contract basis, with 433 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 47 Shareholder information changes in fair value recognised in earnings as these changes occur.
SFAS 159 is effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year beginning after 15 November 2007.
HSBC is currently studying the effect that adoption of SFAS 159 will have on its US GAAP financial statements.
