HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information Page courts against them or HSBC Holdings based on Information about the enforceability of civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the judgements made in the US....................... 435 US.
There is doubt as to whether English courts Exchange controls and other limitations would enforce: affecting equity security holders................ 435 certain civil liabilities under US securities laws Fourth interim dividend for 2006.................. 435 in original actions: or Interim dividends for 2007............................ 436 judgements of US courts based upon these civil Dividends on the ordinary shares of HSBC liability provisions.
The enforceability of any Interim results............................................... 438 judgement in the UK will depend on the particular Annual General Meeting............................... 438 facts of the case as well as the laws and treaties in Shareholder enquiries and communications.. 439 effect at the time.
Investor relations........................................... 440 Exchange controls and other Where more information about HSBC is limitations affecting equity security available..................................................... 440 holders Taxation of shares and dividends.................. 440 History and development of HSBC............... 443 There are currently no UK laws, decrees or Organisational structure................................ 445 regulations which would prevent the import or export of capital or remittance of distributable profits Information about the enforceability by way of dividends and other payments to holders of judgements made in the US of HSBC Holdings equity securities who are not residents of the UK.
There are also no restrictions HSBC Holdings is a public limited company under the laws of the UK or the terms of the incorporated in England and Wales.
Most of HSBC Memorandum and Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings Directors and executive officers live Holdings concerning the right of non-resident or outside the US.
As a result, it may not be possible to foreign owners to hold HSBC Holdings equity serve process on such persons or HSBC Holdings in securities or, when entitled to vote, to do so.
the US or to enforce judgements obtained in US Fourth interim dividend for 2006 The Directors have declared a fourth interim dividend of US$0.36 per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend.
Information on the scrip dividend scheme and currencies in which shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to shareholders on or about 3 April 2007.
The timetable for the dividend is: 2007 Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong and Bermuda: ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York..................... 21 March Record date and closure of Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register of shareholders for one day........................................ 23 March Shares quoted ex-dividend in Paris....................................................................................................................................... 26 March Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts 2006 and or Annual Review 2006, Notice of Annual General Meeting and dividend documentation.................................................................................................................................................... 3 April Final date for receipt by registrars of forms of election and revocations of standing instructions for scrip dividends....... 26 April Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in sterling and Hong Kong dollars................................................... 30 April Payment date: dividend warrants, new share certificates or transaction advices and notional tax vouchers mailed and shares credited to stock accounts in CREST.................................................................................................................... 10 May 435 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Dividends Nature of trading market Interim dividends for 2007 The Board has adopted a policy of paying quarterly interim dividends on the ordinary shares.
Under this policy it is intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend.
It is envisaged that the first interim dividend in respect of 2007 will be US$0.17 per ordinary share.
The proposed timetables for the dividends in respect of 2007 are: Interim dividends for 2007 First Second Third Fourth Announcement.......................................................... 30 April 2007 30 July 2007 5 November 2007 3 March 2008 ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York................... 16 May 2007 15 August 2007 20 November 2007 19 March 2008 Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong and Bermuda..................................... 16 May 2007 15 August 2007 21 November 2007 19 March 2008 Record date and closure of Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register of shareholders for one day........ 18 May 2007 17 August 2007 23 November 2007 25 March 2008 Shares quoted ex-dividend in Paris.......................... 21 May 2007 20 August 2007 26 November 2007 26 March 2008 Payment date............................................................. 5 July 2007 4 October 2007 16 January 2008 7 May 2008 Dividends on the ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings has paid dividends on its ordinary shares every year without interruption since it became the HSBC Group holding company by a scheme of arrangement in 1991.
The dividend will be paid on 10 May 2007.
2 The above dividends declared are accounted for as disclosed in Note 11 on the Financial Statements.
Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in lieu of a cash dividend.
Nature of trading market HSBC Holdings ordinary shares are listed or admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange HKSE, Euronext Paris, the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and the Bermuda Stock Exchange.
HSBC Holdings maintains its principal share register in England and overseas branch share registers in Hong Kong and Bermuda collectively, the share register.
As at 31 December 2006, there were a total of 205,958 holders of record of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2006, a total of 13,292,804 of the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were registered in the HSBC Holdings share register in the name of 11,525 holders of record with addresses in the US.
These shares represented 0.1149 per cent of the total HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue.
436 As at 31 December 2006, there were 11,079 holders of record of ADSs holding approximately 107 million ADSs, representing approximately 535 million HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
10,856 of these holders had addresses in the US, holding approximately 106.9 million ADSs, representing 534.8 million HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2006, approximately 4.5 per cent of the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were represented by ADSs held by holders of record with addresses in the US.
The following table shows, for the years, calendar quarters and months indicated, the highest and lowest prices for the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and ADSs.
These are based on mid-market prices at close of business on the London Stock Exchange, HKSE, Euronext Paris, NYSE and the Bermuda Stock Exchange.
Past share price performance should not be regarded as a guide to future performance.
2 HSBC shares were not listed on the Bermuda Stock Exchange prior to 18 February 2004.
Interim results The interim results for the six months to 30 June 2007 will be announced on 30 July 2007.
Annual General Meeting The 2007 Annual General Meeting will be held at the Barbican Hall, Barbican Centre, London EC2 on 25 May 2007 at 11 am.
438 Shareholder enquiries and communications Enquiries Any enquiries relating to your shareholding, for example transfers of shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques, should be sent to the Registrars: Principal Register Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register: Bermuda Overseas Branch Register: Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Hong Kong Investor Corporate Shareholder Services PO Box 1064, The Pavilions Services Limited The Bank of Bermuda Limited th Bridgwater Road Hopewell Centre, 46 Floor 6 Front Street Bristol BS99 3FA 183 Queens Road East Hamilton HM 11 UK Wan Chai Bermuda Hong Kong Telephone: 44 0 870 7020137 Telephone: 852 2862 8628 Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 Email: web.
co. uk Email: hkinfo@computershare.
hk Any enquiries relating to ADSs should be sent to the depositary: The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street Floor 22W New York, NY 10286 USA Telephone US : 1 888 269 2377 Telephone International : 001 610 382 7836 Email: shareowner-svcs@bankofny.
com Any enquiries relating to shares held through Euroclear France, the settlement and central depositary system for Euronext Paris, should be sent to the paying agent: HSBC France 103, avenue des Champs Elyses 75419 Paris Cedex 08 France Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 Further copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2006 may be obtained by writing to the following departments: For those in Europe, the Middle East and For those in Asia-Pacific: For those in the Americas: Africa: Group Corporate Affairs Group Public Affairs Employee Communications HSBC Holdings plc The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking HSBC-North America 8 Canada Square Corporation Limited 2700 Sanders Road London E14 5HQ 1 Queens Road Central Prospect Heights UK Hong Kong Illinois 60070 USA Electronic communications Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or electronically.
To register online to receive electronic communications, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive electronic communications, go to www.
If you received this document electronically and would like to receive a printed copy or would like to receive future shareholder communications in printed form, please write to the appropriate Registrars at the address given above.
Printed copies will be provided without charge.
Chinese translation A Chinese translation is available on request after 3 April 2007 from the Registrars: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited th Hopewell Centre, 46 Floor 183 Queens Road East Wan Chai Hong Kong 439 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Investor relations Where information is available Taxation Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 1064, The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 3FA UK Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents or if you have received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive such translations in future.
Investor relations Enquiries relating to HSBCs strategy or operations may be directed to: Senior Manager Investor Director Corporate Finance and Senior Manager External Relations Investor Relations Relations HSBC Holdings plc HSBC Finance Corporation The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 8 Canada Square 2700 Sanders Road Corporation Limited London E14 5HQ Prospect Heights, IL 60070 1 Queens Road Central UK USA Hong Kong Telephone: 44 0 20 7991 8041 1 847 564 6478 852 2822 4929 Facsimile: 44 0 20 7991 4663 1 847 205 7538 852 2845 0113 E-mail: investorrelations@hsbc.
hk Where more information about shares.
The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all the tax HSBC is available considerations that may be relevant to a holder of This Annual Report and Accounts 2006, and other shares.
In particular, the summary deals principally information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBCs with shareholders who are resident in the UK for UK web site: www.
tax purposes and only with holders who hold the shares as investments and who are the beneficial US Investors may read and copy the reports, owners of the shares, and does not address the tax statements or information that HSBC Holdings files treatment of certain classes of holders such as with the Securities Exchange Commission at its dealers in securities.
Holders and prospective public reference room in Washington, DC, which is purchasers should consult their own advisers located at 100 F Street, Room 1580, Washington, DC regarding the tax consequences of an investment in 20549.
These documents will also be available at the shares in light of their particular circumstances, Commissions regional offices located at the including the effect of any national, state or local Woolworth Building, 233 Broadway, New York, NY laws.
10279 and at Citicorp Center, 500 West Madison Street, Suite 1400, Chicago, IL 60661.
Investors Taxation of dividends should call the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the public Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by reference rooms.
Investors can request copies of HSBC Holdings.
However, dividends are paid with these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee, an associated tax credit which is available for set-off by writing to the Commission at 100 F Street, Mail by certain shareholders against any liability they Stop 5100, Washington, DC 50549.
Investors may may have to UK income tax.
Currently, the also obtain the reports and other information HSBC associated tax credit is equivalent to 10 per cent of Holdings files at the offices of the New York Stock the combined cash dividend and tax credit, i. e. Exchange, Inc. 20 Broad Street, New York, NY one-ninth of the cash dividend.
For individual shareholders who are resident in the UK for taxation purposes and liable to UK Taxation of shares and dividends income tax at the basic rate, no further UK income tax liability arises on the receipt of a dividend from Taxation UK residents HSBC Holdings.
Individual shareholders who are The following is a summary, under current law, of liable to UK income tax at the higher rate on UK the principal UK tax considerations that are likely to dividend income currently 32.5 per cent are taxed be material to the ownership and disposition of 440 on the combined amount of the dividend and the tax Inheritance tax credit.
The tax credit is available for set-off against Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose the higher rate liability, leaving net higher rate tax to domicile is determined to be the US for the purposes pay equal to 25 per cent of the cash dividend.
of the United States-United Kingdom Double Individual UK resident shareholders are not entitled Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes to any tax credit repayment.
the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not for such Although non-UK resident shareholders are purposes a national of the UK will not, provided any generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax US Federal estate or gift tax chargeable has been credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the such shareholders may be so entitled under the individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of shares provisions of a double taxation agreement between or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or their country of residence and the UK.
However, in ADSs i are comprised in a settlement unless, at the most cases no amount of the tax credit is, in practice, time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in repayable.
the US and was not a national of the UK, ii is part of the business property of a UK permanent Information on the taxation consequences of the establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertains to a HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the UK fixed base of an individual used for the 2004 fourth interim dividend and the first, second performance of independent personal services.
In and third interim dividends for 2006 was set out in such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides the Secretarys letters to shareholders of 4 April, a credit against US Federal tax liability for the 1 June, 30 August and 5 December 2006.
In each amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the case, the difference between the cash dividend shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance foregone and the market value of the scrip dividend tax and to US Federal estate or gift tax.
did not equal or exceed 15% of the market value and accordingly, the price of HSBC Holdings US$0.50 Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax ordinary shares the shares for UK tax purposes for the dividends was the cash dividend foregone.
Transfers of shares by a written instrument of transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty Taxation of capital gains at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the consideration paid for the transfer, and such stamp duty is generally The computation of the capital gains tax liability payable by the transferee.
arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders subject to UK capital gains tax can be An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest complex, partly depending on whether, for example, therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the in 1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong and consideration.
However, provided an instrument of Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the subsequent to 1991 in exchange for shares in other agreement and duly stamped before the date on companies.
which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, under the current practice of UK HM Revenue and For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition Customs it will not be necessary to pay the stamp cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
Stamp duty reserve tax is generally adjustments apply where an individual shareholder payable by the transferee.
has chosen to receive shares instead of cash dividends, subject to scrip issues made since 6 April Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the 1998 being treated for tax as separate holdings.
Any UKs paperless share transfer system, are liable to capital gain arising on a disposal may also be stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of adjusted to take account of indexation allowance the consideration.
In CREST transactions, the tax is and, in the case of individuals, taper relief.
Except calculated and payment made automatically.
for gains made by a company chargeable to UK Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be corporation tax, any such indexation allowance is subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer calculated up to 5 April 1998 only.
into CREST is itself for consideration.
If in doubt, shareholders are recommended to Taxation US residents consult their professional advisers.
The following is a summary, under current law, of the principal UK tax and US federal income tax 441 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Taxation History and development considerations that are likely to be material to the corporation being considered a qualified foreign ownership and disposition of shares or ADSs by a corporation which includes not being classified for holder that is a resident of the US for the purposes of US federal income tax purposes as a passive foreign the income tax convention between the US and the investment company, certain dividends qualified UK the Treaty, and is fully eligible for benefits dividends received by an individual eligible US under the Treaty an eligible US holder.
The holder before 2009 generally will be subject to US summary does not purport to be a comprehensive taxation at a maximum rate of 15 per cent.
Based on description of all of the tax considerations that may the companys audited financial statements and be relevant to a holder of shares or ADSs.
In relevant market and shareholder data, HSBC particular, the summary deals only with eligible US Holdings believes that it was not treated as a passive holders that hold shares or ADSs as capital assets, foreign investment company for US federal income and does not address the tax treatment of holders that tax purposes with respect to its 2005 or 2006 taxable are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, taxyear.
In addition, based on the companys audited exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in financial statements and current expectations securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or regarding the value and nature of its assets, and the ADSs as part of an integrated investment including sources and nature of its income, HSBC Holdings a straddle comprised of a share or ADS and one or does not anticipate being classified as a passive more other positions, and persons that own, directly foreign investment company for its 2007 taxable or indirectly, 10 per cent or more of the voting stock year.
Accordingly, dividends paid on the shares or of HSBC Holdings.
This discussion is based on laws, ADSs generally should be treated as qualified treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory dividends.
interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of which are subject to change.
Under the current Taxation of capital gains income tax treaty between the UK and the US, Gains realised by an eligible US holder on the sale or eligible US holders are no longer entitled to claim a other disposition of shares or ADSs normally will special foreign tax credit in respect of dividends.
not be subject to UK taxation unless at the time of Holders and prospective purchasers should the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a consult their own advisers regarding the tax trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs in branch or agency or permanent establishment and light of their particular circumstances, including the the shares or ADSs are or have been used, held or effect of any national, state or local laws.
acquired for the purposes of such trade, profession, vocation, branch or agency or permanent In general, the beneficial owner of a share or establishment.
Such gains will be included in income ADS will be entitled to benefits under the Treaty for US tax purposes, and will be long-term capital and, therefore, will be an eligible US holder if it is gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than i an individual resident of the US, a US corporation one year.
A long-term capital gain realised by an meeting ownership criteria specified in the Treaty or individual holder generally is subject to US tax at a other entity meeting criteria specified in the Treaty: maximum rate of 15 per cent.
and ii not also resident in the UK for UK tax purposes.
Special rules, including a limitation of Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax benefits provision, may apply.
The Treaty benefits ADSs discussed below generally are not available to US holders that hold shares or ADSs in connection with If shares are transferred into a clearance service or the conduct of a business through a permanent depository receipt ADR arrangement which will establishment, or the performance of personal include a transfer of shares to the Depository UK services through a fixed base, in the UK.
stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax will be payable.
The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is Taxation of dividends generally payable on the consideration for the transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of An eligible US holder must include cash dividends 1.5 per cent.
paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on the date that such holder or the ADS depositary The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable receives them, translating dividends paid in UK on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty pounds sterling into US dollars using the exchange paid in connection with the same transfer.
rate in effect on the date of receipt.
Subject to certain No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer exceptions for positions that are held for less than 61 of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that days or are hedged, and subject to a foreign 442 the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or Canadian operations.
HSBC Bank Canada has written agreement to transfer remain at all times since made numerous acquisitions, expanding outside the UK, and provided further that any such rapidly to become the largest foreign-owned transfer or written agreement to transfer is not bank in Canada and the seventh-largest executed in the UK.
No stamp duty reserve tax will overall at 31 December 2006. be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, 1987 A 14.9 per cent interest in Midland Bank plc, an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
now HSBC Bank plc, one of the UKs On a transfer of shares from the Depository to a principal clearing banks, is purchased.
registered holder of an ADS upon cancellation of the 1991 HSBC Holdings plc is established as the ADS, a fixed stamp duty of 5 per instrument of parent company of the HSBC Group.
transfer will be payable by the registered holder of the ADR cancelled.
1992 HSBC purchases the remaining interest in Midland Bank plc.
US backup withholding tax and information 1993 As a consequence of the Midland acquisition, reporting HSBCs head office is transferred from Hong Distributions made on shares and proceeds from the Kong to London in January.
sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, 1997 HSBC assumes selected assets, liabilities and or through certain financial intermediaries to US subsidiaries of Banco Bamerindus do Brasil holders, are subject to information reporting and may S. A. now HSBC Bank Brazil, following the be subject to a US backup withholding tax unless, intervention of the Central Bank of Brazil, in general, the US holder complies with certain and in Argentina completes the acquisition of certification procedures or is a corporation or other Grupo Roberts, now part of HSBC Bank person exempt from such withholding.
Holders that Argentina S. A. are not US persons generally are not subject to information reporting or backup withholding tax, but 1999 HSBC acquires Republic New York may be required to comply with applicable Corporation, subsequently merged with certification procedures to establish that they are not HSBC USA, Inc. and Safra Republic US persons in order to avoid the application of such Holdings S. A. information reporting requirements or backup 2000 HSBC completes its acquisition of 99.99 per withholding tax to payments received within the US cent of the issued share capital of Crdit or through certain financial intermediaries.
Commercial fide France S. A. now HSBC France.
History and development of HSBC 2002 HSBC acquires 99.59 per cent of Grupo 1865 The founding member of the HSBC Group, Financiero Bital, S. A. fide C. V. the holding The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking company of what is now HSBC Mexico.
Corporation, is established in both Hong 2003 HSBC acquires Household International, Inc. Kong and Shanghai.
HSBC 1959 The Mercantile Bank of India Limited and Finance brings to the Group national The British Bank of the Middle East, now coverage in the US for consumer lending, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, are credit cards and credit insurance through purchased.
1965 A 51 per cent interest subsequently increased 2003 HSBC acquires Banco Lloyds TSB S. A.
- to 62.14 per cent is acquired in Hang Seng Banco Mltiplo in Brazil and the countrys Bank Limited.
Hang Seng Bank is the fourthleading consumer finance company, Losango largest listed bank in Hong Kong by market Promotora fide Vendas Limitada Losango.
2004 HSBC Bank USA, Inc. merges with HSBC 1980 A 51 per cent interest in Marine Midland Bank & Trust Delaware N. A. to form HSBC Banks, Inc. now HSBC USA, Inc, is acquired Bank USA, N. A. with the remaining interest acquired in 2004 The acquisition of The Bank of Bermuda 1987.
1981 The Hongkong and Shanghai Bank Banking Corporation incorporates its then existing 443 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued History and development Organisational structure 2004 HSBC acquires Marks and Spencer Retail Financial Services Holdings Limited, which trades as Marks and Spencer Money M&S Money in the UK.
2004 HSBC acquires 19.9 per cent of Bank of Communications, mainland Chinas fifthlargest bank by total assets, and Hang Seng Bank acquires 15.98 per cent of Industrial Bank.
2005 HSBC increases its holding in Ping An Insurance to 19.9 per cent, having made its initial investment in 2002.
Ping An Insurance is the second-largest life insurer and the thirdlargest property and casualty insurer in mainland China.
2005 HSBC Finance completes the acquisition of Metris Companies Inc. Metris, making HSBC the fifth-largest issuer of MasterCard and Visa cards in the USA.
2006 In July, HSBC enters into an agreement with Grupo Banistmo S. A. Banistmo, the leading banking group in Central America, to make a tender offer to acquire 99.98 per cent of the outstanding shares of Banistmo for US$1.77 billion in cash.
The transaction is completed in November.
Banistmos principal area of operation is Panama, but the group also has a significant presence in five countries new to HSBC, namely Costa Rica, Honduras, Colombia, Nicaragua and El Salvador.
