British EnErgy group plc 91 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 glossary AgR Advanced gas-Cooled Reactor LLW, ILW, HLW Low, Intermediate, High Level Waste the second generation of gas-cooled nuclear reactor built in the uK.
radioactive waste is classified as low, intermediate or high level waste according to its heat generating capacity and radioactivity.
LLW Baseload generation comprises slightly radioactive materials, such as discarded protective Mode of operation of a power station at a constant high level of clothing and used wrapped materials.
iLW comprises more radioactive output for a sustained period of time to assist in meeting minimum materials, including sludges and resins from the cleaning of fuel storage national demand.
pond water, fuel cladding and other materials arising from the reprocessing of spent fuel, and some radioactive components arising Bonds from the decommissioning of plant.
hLW comprises nuclear waste Bonds issued by British Energy holdings plc.
products separated out from uranium and plutonium during the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel.
British Energy Direct British Energy Direct Limited.
Lost Time Accident LTA An incident which causes one or more days off work consecutive or not BETTA after, but not including, the day of an occupational injury or illness.
British Electricity transmission and trading Arrangements.
Market Price BNFL the price for annual forward baseload contracts.
Materiel Condition Bruce A term used by nuclear operators, particularly in the united states, in the Bruce A and B nuclear power stations in ontario, Canada.
relation to nuclear power stations, and used to describe the physical condition of plant and equipment and the condition of operating Decommissioning procedures, engineering drawings, specifications and manuals taking the process whereby a nuclear power station is shut down at the end of safety, maintenance and plant reliability into consideration.
its economic life, eventually dismantled, and the site made available for other purposes.
MW Megawatt : MWh Megawatt-hour one megawatt equals 1,000 kW: one megawatt-hour represents one Emission Limit Values ELV hour of electricity consumption at a constant rate of 1 MW.
Emission limits imposed under the Large Combustion plant Directive, requiring operators to maintain emissions within a rate limit at all points National Emissions Reduction Plan NERP in time.
Emission limits imposed under the Large plant Combustion Directive, requiring operators to maintain emissions within an annual bubble limit.
Energy Supply Costs these mainly comprise the costs incurred for the use of the distribution NDA and transmission systems, recovered through revenue, and costs of nuclear Decommissioning Authority.
NLF EPL An independently administered fund into which the group makes Eggborough power Limited.
contributions to cover all qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities including costs of decommissioning nuclear power stations and pWr ETS back end fuel costs.
Non Outage Defect Backlog FgD Flue gas Desulphurisation total of outstanding plant defects which are work requests that have Equipment fitted to coal-fired power stations to reduce sulphur been partially assessed by maintenance, or are still awaiting action after dioxide emissions.
screening by the station Work review groups, based on a priority weighting set by the nuclear performance review Committee.
gW gigawatt : gWh gigawatt-hour one gigawatt equals 1,000 MW: one gigawatt-hour represents one hour Outage Planned and Unplanned of electricity consumed at a constant rate of 1 gW.
A period during which a reactor is shut down.
the periodic shutdown of a reactor including for maintenance, inspection and testing or, in some kW Kilowatt : kWh Kilowatt-hour cases, for refuelling is known as a planned outage.
in the uK, some A kilowatt is a unit of power, representing the rate at which energy is planned outages are known as statutory outages and are required by used or produced: one kilowatt-hour is a unit of energy and represents the conditions attached to the nuclear site licence needed to operate one hour of electricity consumption at a constant rate of 1 kW.
unscheduled shutdown of a reactor for a period is known as an unplanned outage.
Large Combustion Plant Directive LCPD EC Directive applicable to combustion plants exceeding 50 MW thermal, PWR Pressurised Water Reactor that takes into account recent advances in combustion and abatement the most recent type of nuclear reactor to be constructed in the uK technologies to introduce revised limits for releases of so, no and which uses pressurised water as both the coolant and the moderator.
under uK implementation of the Directive, operators are permitted to elect either the Emission Limits Value ELV approach or the national Quinquennial Review Emissions reduction plan nErp approach.
the five-yearly review of the assumptions underlying the groups provision for certain nuclear liabilities.
