British EnErgy group plc 83 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 parent Company Financial statements independent Auditors report to the Members of British Energy group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of British apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Energy group plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise company financial statements.
our responsibilities do not extend to any the balance sheet and the related notes.
these parent company other information.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in Basis of audit opinion the remuneration Committee report that is described as having We conducted our audit in accordance with international standards on been audited.
Auditing uK and ireland issued by the Auditing practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the We have reported separately on the group financial statements of amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements British Energy group plc for the year ended 31 March 2006. and the part of the remuneration Committee report to be audited.
it also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent the Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies remuneration Committee report and the parent company financial are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied statements in accordance with applicable law and united Kingdom and adequately disclosed.
Accounting standards united Kingdom generally Accepted Accounting practice are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent and the part of the remuneration Committee report to be audited in company financial statements and the part of the remuneration accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Committee report to be audited are free from material misstatement, international standards on Auditing uK and ireland.
this report, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
in forming our including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of members as a body in accordance with section 235 of the Companies information in the parent company financial statements and the part of Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, the remuneration Committee report to be audited.
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Opinion save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
in our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company accordance with united Kingdom generally Accepted Accounting financial statements and the part of the remuneration Committee practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2006: report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the parent company financial statements and the part of the the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the remuneration Committee report to be audited have been properly Directors report is not consistent with the parent company financial prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the we have not received all the information and explanations we require for parent company financial statements.
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
the other information comprises only the Directors report,  LLP the unaudited part of the remuneration Committee report, the Chartered Accountants and registered Auditors Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the review of Edinburgh operating performance, the Financial review, the report on Corporate social responsibility and the report on Corporate governance.
We 20 June 2006 consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
