Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 46 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 1.
Presentation of the Financial Statements i Description of Business British Energy group plc is engaged in the generation and sale of electricity.
references to British Energy or the Company are to British Energy group plc, the ultimate holding company of the group.
references to the group are to the Company and its subsidiaries.
the group operates eight nuclear power stations and one coal-fired power station in the united Kingdom.
British Energy group plc is a public limited company, incorporated and domiciled in great Britain.
the Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London stock Exchange.
the consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 20 June 2006. ii Compliance with Applicable Law and IfrS the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with international Financial reporting standards iFrs as adopted by the European union Eu, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985. iii financial Period the consolidated financial statements cover the financial year from 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006, with comparative figures for the financial period from incorporation on 2 July 2004 to 31 March 2005.
As a consequence of the restructuring, under a scheme of arrangement under section 425 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company acquired British Energy plc on 14 January 2005. the restructuring was accounted for under the principles of acquisition accounting.
the application of acquisition accounting principles meant that all the separate assets and liabilities of British Energy plc were recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition with goodwill arising on the difference between the value of net assets of British Energy plc and the acquisition consideration paid.
only the post acquisition results for the period from 15 January 2005 to 31 March 2005 are included in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, consolidated statement of cash flows and the notes to the consolidated financial statements for the prior period.
Due to the seasonality of its business, the results and cash flows for the group for the period from 15 January 2005 to 31 March 2005 are not directly comparable to the current year ended 31 March 2006. iv Conversion to IfrS this is the first year that the group has produced consolidated financial statements under iFrs.
the adoption of iFrs has resulted in a number of adjustments to the previously reported results and total shareholders funds presented under uK gAAp see note 38. iFrs 1 First-time Adoption of international Financial reporting standards iFrs 1 permits those companies adopting iFrs for the first time to take some exemptions from the full requirements of iFrs in the transition period.
British Energy group plc has adopted the following exemption: Financial instruments: financial instruments in the comparative period presented in the 2006 Annual report i. e. for the period ended 31 March 2005 are recorded using the groups previous uK gAAp accounting policy applied in that period, rather than in accordance with iAs 32 Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation iAs 32 and iAs 39 Financial instruments: recognition and Measurement iAs 39. the accounting policies for both the current and comparative period for financial instruments are set out in note 2. v Composition of the Group A list of subsidiary undertakings which, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or the net assets of the group is given in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
vi Composition of the Consolidated financial Statements the consolidated financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings, and comprise the following: Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated statement of cash flows notes to the consolidated financial statements vii Accounting Convention the consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention, modified for certain items carried at fair value, as stated in the accounting policies.
viii restatement the value attributed to the nuclear liabilities of the acquired British Energy plc group at 14 January 2005, as reported in the consolidated financial statements for the period ended 31 March 2005, was provisional subject to the completion of the Quinquennial review see note 30.
Following the completion of the Quinquennial review, which is subject to final agreement with the nDA and the other regulators nuclear installations inspectorate, the Environment Agency and the scottish Environment protection Agency, the values attributed to nuclear liabilities were restated.
As part of the restructuring arrangements the group is indemnified by the secretary of state for any future shortfall on nLF funding of qualifying nuclear liabilities and decommissioning costs.
therefore, the increase in liabilities was fully offset by a corresponding increase in the indemnity from the secretary of state such that there was no impact on the net assets of the group or goodwill at rED.
revalorisation of nuclear liabilities and the nLF receivable for the comparative period have been restated in line with the restatement of the nuclear liabilities and the nLF receivable.
ix Parent Company financial Statements British Energy group plc, the Company, has not adopted iFrs and has therefore drawn up separate financial statements in accordance with united Kingdom generally accepted accounting principles uK gAAp.
these are presented in the Annual report on pages 84 to 88.
British EnErgy group plc 47 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 2.
Accounting Policies i Significant Estimates Used in Applying Accounting Policies the preparation of financial statements in conformity with iFrs requires management to make certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
the principal accounting polices adopted by the group in the consolidated financial statements are as set out below.
the application of a number of these policies required the group to use a variety of estimation techniques and apply judgement to best reflect the substance of underlying transactions.
significant factors considered when assessing the carrying value of assets include future electricity prices, expected annual output, expected station operating costs, remaining station lives and discount rates.
the group has determined that a number of its accounting policies can be considered significant, in terms of the management judgement that has been required to determine the various assumptions underpinning their application in the consolidated financial statements presented, which, under different conditions, could lead to material differences in these statements.
the policies where significant judgements and estimates have been made are the: application of business combination accounting rules: accounting for property, plant and equipment: accounting for coal inventory: estimation of liabilities for spent nuclear fuel and decommissioning costs: estimation of retirement benefit obligations: estimation of fair value of financial instruments and commodity contracts: and accounting for deferred tax.
Actual results can differ from estimates.
ii revenue revenue is recognised by the group when persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, delivery of goods or services has occurred, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, collectibility of the related receivable amount is probable and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
revenue represents the fair value of the consideration receivable for sales of electricity and sales of other related goods and services.
it is shown net of value added tax, electricity purchases relating to short-term balancing and hedging activities, and climate change levy.
revenue is also shown after elimination of sales within the group.
Wholesale generation and direct supply sales are recognised on an accruals basis with reference to meter readings of electricity supplied.
Where required, a management estimate is included of the value of units supplied to customers between the date of their last meter reading and the accounting period end.
revenue includes miscellaneous income that comprises mainly services to Magnox in respect of shared sites.
iii fuel Costs Nuclear front End Advanced Gas-cooled Reactors AGR Front end fuel costs consist of the costs of procurement of uranium, conversion and enrichment services and fuel element fabrication.
Fabrication costs comprise fixed and variable elements.
All costs are capitalised into inventory and charged to the consolidated income statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt.
Pressurised Water Reactor PWR All front end fuel costs are variable and are capitalised into inventory and subsequently charged to the consolidated income statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt.
iv fuel Costs Nuclear Back End AGR spent fuel extracted from the reactors is sent for reprocessing and or long-term storage and eventual disposal of resulting waste products.
Back end fuel costs comprise: a a cost per tonne of uranium in Agr fuel, in respect of amounts payable on loading of fuel into any one of the Agr reactors: and b a rebate surcharge against the cost mentioned in a above that is dependent on the out-turn market electricity price in the year and the amount of electricity generated in the year.
the loading related cost and the rebate surcharge is capitalised into inventory and charged to the consolidated income statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt.
PWR Back end fuel costs are based on wet storage in station ponds followed by dry storage and subsequent direct disposal of fuel.
Back end fuel costs comprise the estimated cost of this process at current prices discounted back to current value.
Back end fuel costs are capitalised into inventory on loading and charged to the consolidated income statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt.
Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 48 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 2.
Accounting Policies continued v Unburnt fuel at Shutdown Due to the nature of the nuclear fuel process there will be some unburnt fuel in the reactors at station closure.
the costs of this unburnt fuel final core are fully provided at the balance sheet date and any changes in the carrying value of nuclear fuel attributed to the final core are charged to the consolidated income statement in the accounting period.
vi fuel Costs Coal Fuel costs for coal are determined on a weighted average cost basis.
Fuel costs for coal also include costs of emission allowances.
vii Inventory Stores inventory held in stores is recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
stores inventory is accounted for using the weighted average cost method.
viii Employee Benefits Post retirement Benefit Obligations the group provides for pension costs in accordance with iAs 19 2004 Employee Benefits iAs 19.
Contributions to the groups defined benefit pension schemes are assessed by qualified actuaries.
the group operates two separate pension arrangements in the uK within the Electricity supply pension scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme.
pension scheme assets are measured using market values, which for securities is based on bid price values.
pension costs are assessed using the projected unit method so that the cost of providing pensions is charged to the consolidated income statement in a manner which spreads the service cost over the expected service lives of employees.
the retirement benefit obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated future cash outflows, discounted using the bond yields on uK government securities of appropriate maturity.
the expected return on the plan assets and the increase during the period in the present value of the defined benefit obligations arising from the passage of time are included in other finance expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately within the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
the capital cost of ex-gratia and supplementary pensions is charged to the consolidated income statement, to the extent that the arrangements cannot be covered by any surplus in schemes, in the accounting period in which they are granted.
Certain additional unfunded retirement benefits are provided to eligible employees.
the cost of providing such benefits is charged to the consolidated income statement as they accrue.
ix NLf funding Arrangements under the arrangements with the secretary of state the nLF will fund, subject to certain exceptions, the groups qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities and qualifying decommissioning costs.
to the extent there is any surplus remaining in the nLF after all obligations have been discharged, this amount will be paid to the secretary of state.
the group is responsible for funding certain excluded or disqualified liabilities and will, in certain circumstances, be required to compensate or indemnify the nLF and the secretary of state in relation to such liabilities.
the groups obligations under these arrangements with the secretary of state are guaranteed by certain companies within the group.
in consideration for the assumption of these liabilities by the secretary of state and the nLF, British Energy holdings plc a subsidiary of the Company issued 275m in Bonds to the nLF at rED.
the group will also make the following payments to the nLF i an annual contribution Cash sweep payment initially equal to 65% of the British Energy groups adjusted net cash flow, adjusted for certain corporate actions but never to exceed 65% Cash sweep percentage ii fixed decommissioning contributions equal to 20m per annum indexed to rpi but tapering off as the nuclear power stations are currently scheduled to close : and iii 150,000 indexed to rpi for every tonne of uranium in pWr fuel loaded into the sizewell B reactor after rED.
the nLF has the right from time to time to convert all or part of the Cash sweep payment into Convertible shares of the Company the nLF conversion right.
on a full conversion, the nLF would hold up to 65% of the thereby enlarged equity share capital of the Company.
however, the terms of the Convertible shares include a limit on the voting rights of such shares equal to a maximum of 29.9% whilst held by the nLF.
the annual Cash sweep payment can only be determined after the end of the financial year and is contingent based on cash generation in the year.
therefore, it is only recognised and provided for when it becomes determinable and not in any interim financial periods.
it will be recorded as an operating cost of the applicable financial year.
the annual Cash sweep payment becomes payable 25 business days after publication of the Annual report and Accounts.
the fixed decommissioning obligations of 20m per annum have been recorded as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet at their discounted value and disclosed as the nLF liability.
the nLF liability is reduced as payments are made to the nLF.
Each year the financing charges in the consolidated income statement include the revalorisation of nLF liabilities required to discharge one years discount from the liability.
pWr fuel loaded after rED will increase the qualifying nuclear liability recognised for back end pWr fuel costs as set out above and will increase the nLF receivable by a corresponding amount.
the difference between the payment of 150,000 indexed to rpi per tonne made to the nLF on the loading of pWr fuel and the increase in the liability recognised upon loading of this fuel will require to be matched against back end fuel costs as the loaded tonnes are burned in the pWr reactor.
x Goodwill goodwill arising on acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration at acquisition compared to the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset on the consolidated balance sheet.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
goodwill balances are assessed for impairment at least annually and at other balance sheet dates if there is any indication of impairment.
British EnErgy group plc 49 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 2.
Accounting Policies continued xi Taxation the tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
the tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
the groups liability for tax currently payable is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
the tax expense relating to items recognised directly in equity are recognised in equity and not in the consolidated income statement.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
the carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
xii Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation property, plant and equipment comprises assets acquired or constructed by the group.
property, plant and equipment other than assets in the course of construction are stated in the consolidated balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation.
the fair value of property, plant and equipment acquired as a result of the restructuring has been deemed to be the cost amount recognised at that date.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Accumulated depreciation includes additional charges made where necessary to reflect impairment in value.
Assets in the course of construction are stated at cost and not depreciated until commissioned.
the charge for depreciation of property, plant and equipment is based on the straight line method so as to write off the costs of assets, after taking into account provisions for diminution in value, over their estimated useful lives.
the asset lives adopted are reviewed annually and for the year ended 31 March 2006 were: Agr power stations 517 years pWr power station 30 years Coal power station 10 years other buildings 30 years other plant and equipment 18 months 5 years Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately, or to improve its operational performance is included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the originally assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Expenditure to improve safety or in order to meet increased regulatory standards is also capitalised.
Expenditure on major inspection and overhauls of production plant is capitalised, within other plant and equipment, when it meets the asset recognition criteria and is depreciated over the period until the next outage.
For Agr power stations, this depreciation period is three years, for the pWr power station it is 18 months and for Eggborough it is four years.
Major spare parts are classified as property, plant and equipment and assigned to individual stations when they are expected to be utilised over more than one period.
they are depreciated using the applicable station lifetime estimate.
gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are included in operating profit.
xiii research and Development Expenditure Expenditure, including that incurred on scientific and engineering research, which relates to preliminary studies and the initiation of new technologies not yet adopted, is charged to the consolidated income statement as incurred.
All other maintenance, repairs and renewals are charged to the consolidated income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
xiv Intangible Assets excluding Goodwill the costs of acquired computer software are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring the specific software in to use, and are amortised over their estimated operational lives for a maximum of five years.
Costs directly associated with the development of computer software programmes that are expected to generate economic benefits over a period in excess of one year are also capitalised and amortised over their estimated operational lives.
purchased renewable obligation Certificates roCs and Levy Exemption Certificates LECs are initially recognised at cost within intangible assets.
A liability for roCs is recognised based on the level of electricity supplied to customers, and is calculated in accordance with percentages set by the uK government and the renewable obligation certificate buyout price for that period.
roCs and LECs have sustainable values and can be used over an unrestricted period and therefore they are not amortised.
Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 50 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 2.
Accounting Policies continued under the Eu Emissions trading scheme Eu Ets, granted carbon allowances received in a period are initially recognised at nil value within intangible assets.
purchased carbon allowances are initially recognised at cost within intangible assets.
Allowances granted are apportioned over the year in line with actual and forecast emissions for the relevant emissions year.
A liability is recognised when actual emissions are greater than the granted allowances apportioned for the year.
the liability is measured at the cost of purchased allowances up to the level of purchased allowances held, and then at the market price of allowances ruling at the balance sheet date, with movements in the liability recognised in operating profit.
Forward contracts for the purchase or sale of carbon allowances are measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement in the unrealised net gains on financial instruments and commodity contracts line.
Carbon allowances have a sustainable value and can be used in settlement of an obligation over an unrestricted period and therefore carbon allowances are not amortised.
xv Impairment of Tangible and Intangible Assets excluding Goodwill At each reporting date, the group reviews its tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill to determine whether there is any indication that those assets may have suffered an impairment loss.
if any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
xvi NLf and Nuclear Liabilities receivables the government indemnity is provided to indemnify any future shortfall on nLF funding of qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities including pWr back end fuel services and qualifying nuclear decommissioning costs.
the nLF receivable asset recognised represents the aggregate value of the nuclear Liabilities Fund and the government indemnity such that the receivable equals the present value of the associated qualifying nuclear liabilities.
the government indemnity is also provided to cover the cost of services for spent Agr fuel loaded pre-restructuring.
the nuclear liabilities receivable is recognised in respect of the indemnity such that the receivable equals the present value of the associated qualifying nuclear liabilities.
the nLF receivable and the nuclear liabilities receivable are stated in the consolidated balance sheet at current price levels, discounted at a long-term real rate of interest of 3% per annum to take account of the timing of payments.
Each year the financing charges in the consolidated income statement include the revalorisation of these receivables required to match the revalorisation of the nuclear liabilities.
xvii Nuclear Liabilities nuclear liabilities represent provision for the groups liabilities in respect of the costs of waste management of spent fuel and nuclear decommissioning.
the provisions represent the Directors best estimates of the costs expected to be incurred.
they are calculated based on the latest technical evaluation of the processes and methods likely to be used, and reflect current engineering knowledge.
the provisions are based on such commercial agreements as are currently in place, and reflect the Directors understanding of the current government policy and regulatory framework.
given that government policy and the regulatory framework on which our assumptions have been based may be expected to develop and that the Directors plans will be influenced by improvements in technology and experience gained from decommissioning activities, liabilities and the resulting provisions are likely to be adjusted.
in recognising the costs of generating electricity, accruals are made in respect of the following: a Back End Fuel Costs the treatment of back end fuel costs in the consolidated income statement has been dealt with under the accounting policies for fuel costs above.
these nuclear liabilities cover the reprocessing and storage of spent nuclear fuel and the long-term storage, treatment and eventual disposal of nuclear waste.
they are based, as appropriate, on contractual arrangements or the latest technical assessments of the processes and methods likely to be used to deal with these obligations under the current regulatory regime.
Accruals are included within nuclear liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet, which are based on contractual arrangements and long-term cost forecasts, and which are reviewed regularly and adjusted where necessary.
b Decommissioning of Nuclear Power Stations the consolidated financial statements include provision for the full cost of decommissioning the groups nuclear power stations.
provision is made on the basis of the latest technical assessments of the processes and methods likely to be used for decommissioning under the current regulatory regime.
the liabilities for back end fuel costs and decommissioning are stated in the consolidated balance sheet at current price levels, discounted at a long-term real rate of interest of 3% per annum to take account of the timing of payments.
Each year the financing charges in the consolidated income statement include the revalorisation of liabilities required to discharge one years discount from provisions made in prior years and restate these provisions to current price levels.
xviii restricted Cash and Cash and Cash Equivalents restricted cash primarily consists of cash pledged as collateral.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand with banks and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less.
xix financial Instruments applied in the preparation of the consolidated IfrS financial information for the year ended 31 March 2006 Implementation of IAS 32 and IAS 39 the group has applied iAs 32 and iAs 39, as adopted for use in the Eu, in the financial year ended 31 March 2006. in accordance with the transitional arrangements set out in iFrs 1, the group has not restated the prior periods comparative figures to show the effect of iAs 32 and iAs 39.
For the period ended 31 March 2005, financial instruments continue to be accounted for in accordance with the groups previous policies for financial instruments under uK gAAp, and the applicable accounting policies for the comparative period are presented in note 2 xx.
British EnErgy group plc 51 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 2.
Accounting Policies continued Recognition, Classification and Subsequent Measurement of Financial Assets and Liabilities iAs 39 requires that all financial assets and liabilities be initially recognised at fair value in the consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair value reported through the consolidated income statement, or the hedge reserve to the extent that effective cash flow hedges exist.
Exceptions apply to assets classified as loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments, which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, and also to equity investments in instruments whose fair value can not be reliably measured, which are recognised and measured at cost.
Financial liabilities are measured at fair value or at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
the group measures all debt instruments initially at fair value, and this is taken to be the fair value of the consideration received.
Where financial assets or financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, transaction costs any such costs incremental to and directly attributable to the issue of the financial instruments are included in the calculation of the effective interest rate and are, in effect, amortised through the consolidated income statement over the life of the instrument.
Where financial assets or financial liabilities are measured at fair value, transaction costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual right to the cash flow from the asset expires.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is extinguished or expires.
Accounting for Derivatives and Commodity Contracts the groups activities expose it primarily to risks associated with electricity generation, the purchase of fuel for use in the generation process, and the supply of electricity to end customers in both the wholesale and retail markets.
the group follows a trading strategy of selling forward a proportion of the groups output to reduce the groups exposure to potential falls in the market price of electricity.
the use of derivative financial instruments occurs primarily within the groups electricity trading and coal procurement activities.
the Board has endorsed the use of derivative financial instruments as hedging tools and the group uses derivative and non-derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures.
physical and financially settled instruments are held by the group to match offsetting physical positions and are not held for proprietary trading purposes.
Where commodity contracts, such as electricity and fuel, are entered into in accordance with the groups own purchase, sale or usage requirements own use they are excluded from the scope of iAs 39 and are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of these contracts are recorded within trade payables and trade receivables respectively.
Where a commodity contract is not entered in to or does not continue to be held to meet the groups own purchase, sale or usage requirements it is treated as a derivative financial instrument, and the recognition and measurement requirements of iAs 39 are applied.
Derivative financial instruments are presented in the financial instruments and commodity contracts line of the consolidated balance sheet.
Derivative financial instruments that are held for trading, as defined by iAs 39, are initially recognised at fair value and all changes in fair value are subsequently accounted for through the unrealised net gains on financial instruments and commodity contracts line of the consolidated income statement.
held for trading assets and liabilities are classified as current in the consolidated balance sheet.
Derivative financial instruments that are designated and are effective as hedges of future cash flows are initially recognised at fair value and changes in the fair value are recognised directly in equity, in the cash flow hedge reserve.
the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
hedging instruments are classified as current or non-current with reference to the period of delivery.
the group designates derivatives as cash flow hedging instruments when it is expected that there will be a high inverse correlation between the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument and the changes in the fair value of the cash flows of the hedged item.
this is measured primarily using the dollar offset method.
such correlation is required to be within the limits of 80% to 125% for hedge accounting to be permitted.
prospective and retrospective testing is carried out on a regular basis, at least on each reporting date, to establish whether the assumptions and application criteria for hedge accounting are supported.
the group discontinues hedge accounting where the hedging relationship correlation is outside the required parameters.
Derivative instruments are fide-designated from a hedge relationship when: the hedging instrument or item expires or is settled: the forecast transaction is no longer considered to be highly probable: and the hedging instrument no longer qualifies for hedge accounting under iAs 39 rules.
Any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity, in the cash flow hedge reserve, until the forecast transaction is settled.
if a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised within equity is transferred to the consolidated income statement of the period.
Valuation of Commodity Contracts and Derivatives the groups valuation policy for derivative and other financial instruments is to maximise the use of quoted prices from active trading markets.
All contracts that fall within the scope of iAs 39 are valued using observable market prices.
Certain long-term structured transactions have been classified as own use and therefore fall outside the scope of iAs 39. the group considers that the uK electricity market is active for up to 2 years ahead, with reliable broker quotes and published prices available for this period.
Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 52 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 2.
Accounting Policies continued purchase contracts are valued against the quoted bid price and sales contracts are valued against the quoted offer prices, with no provisions made for liquidity.
Valuation adjustments are made for the time value of money, which is applied to all contracts, and credit risk, which will be applied where applicable.
principal values are undiscounted and are derived from the aggregate volumes and relevant contract prices of those sale and purchase contracts that are within the scope of iAs 39. the principal values provide an indication of the scope of the use of derivatives but do not reflect the risk the group is exposed to from entering into derivatives.
Embedded Derivatives the group also evaluates contracts for embedded derivatives, and considers whether any embedded derivatives have to be separated from the underlying host contract and accounted for separately in accordance with iAs 39 requirements.
Where embedded derivatives have terms that are not closely related to the terms of the host contract in which they are included, they are accounted for separately from the host contract as derivatives, with changes in the fair value recorded in the consolidated income statement on the unrealised net gains on financial instruments and commodity contracts line, to the extent that the hybrid instrument is not already accounted for at fair value.
if the fair value cannot be determined reliably based on the terms and conditions of the embedded derivatives, the fair value of the embedded derivatives is calculated as the difference between the value of the hybrid instrument and the host contract excluding the derivative element.
Offsetting of Derivative Assets and Liabilities the group offsets a financial asset and a financial liability and reports the net amount only when the group has a legally enforceable right to set off the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Impact on Effective Tax Rate income tax for interim reporting periods is calculated by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate to the interim result excluding iAs 39 adjustments, and by calculating tax at the standard rate for the iAs 39 adjustments arising within the period.
xx financial Instruments applied in the preparation of the consolidated IfrS financial information for the period ended 31 March 2005 Debt Instruments All borrowings are stated at cost with issue costs being charged to the consolidated income statement over the duration of the facility.
the interest payable on debt is charged to the consolidated income statement over the life of the borrowing.
premiums and discounts arising on early repayment of borrowings are recognised within the consolidated income statement as incurred and received.
Commodity Contracts on 14 January 2005, as part of the acquisition accounting, all power and coal contracts were recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet.
As the contracts in existence at 14 January 2005 are satisfied, the fair value recorded on restructuring is reflected through the consolidated income statement within other operating expense or income.
For contracts entered into since 14 January 2005, where there is physical delivery associated with power and coal commodity contracts they are accounted for on an accruals basis following delivery of the commodity.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of these contracts are recorded within payables and receivables respectively and recognised as revenue or operating costs.
For contracts entered into since 14 January 2005, where there is no physical delivery associated with these contracts, they are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet.
Where the instrument is for proprietary trading purposes, the change in fair value is reflected through the consolidated income statement as an other operating expense.
this is not in accordance with the general provisions of schedule 4 of the Companies Act 1985, which requires that these contracts are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value or that, if revalued, any revaluation difference be taken to a revaluation reserve.
however, the Directors consider that this departure is necessary in order that the consolidated financial statements give a fair representation of the results of the groups trading activities.
Futures and Power Options power futures and options are undertaken for hedging and proprietary trading purposes.
initial margins paid on entering power exchange contracts are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet within restricted cash throughout the term of the contract.
Where the instrument is a hedge, the daily margin calls are reflected on the consolidated balance sheet.
premiums received and paid on wholesale option contracts are amortised over the period of the contracts and included within revenue.
Financial options are marked to market through the consolidated income statement.
xxi Share-based Payment adopted from 1 April 2005 the group has four share compensation schemes, the Long term Deferred Bonus plan, the share incentive plan, the interim Bonus plan and the Executive share option plan 2004. the group accounts for its share compensation schemes in accordance with iFrs 2 share-based payment iFrs 2. the fair value of the share compensation schemes is charged to the consolidated income statement over the period from the date the schemes were granted to the date at which the compensation is expected to vest on the employees.
the corresponding credit is included in total shareholders equity.
the group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees under the terms of the groups various employee share compensation schemes.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
the fair value determined at the grant date of equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the shares that will ultimately vest.
British EnErgy group plc 53 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 2.
Accounting Policies continued xxii Provisions A provision is recognised when the group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
if the effect is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
xxiii Operating Leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases and rentals payable are charged in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
xxiv Exceptional Items Exceptional items, by their nature, are not indicative of the underlying operating performance of the group.
Exceptional items are material to the results for the year and are of a non-recurring nature and are therefore presented separately.
xxv foreign Currencies transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the balance sheet.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement.
xxvi New Accounting Standards the following accounting standards and interpretations, which are relevant to the group but have not been applied in the year ended 31 March 2006, have been issued but are not yet effective: iFrs 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures iFrs 7 iFriC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease iFriC 4 iFriC 9 reassessment of Embedded Derivatives iFriC 9 iFrs 7 was issued in August 2005 and is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007. this standard incorporates the disclosure requirements of iAs 32, which it supersedes, and adds further quantitative and qualitative disclosures in relation to financial instruments.
iFriC 4 was issued in December 2004 and is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006. the interpretation requires arrangements which have the nature, not the legal form, to be accounted for in accordance with iAs 17 Leases.
the interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on the group.
iFriC 9 was issued in March 2006 and is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006. the interpretation requires a reassessment of embedded derivatives and is not expected to have a material impact on the group.
Accounting standards that are relevant to the group and which have been early adopted are: iFriC 5 rights to interests Arising from Decommissioning, restoration and rehabilitation Funds iFriC 5. iAs 19 2004 Employee Benefits iAs 19. iFriC 5 was issued in December 2004 and is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006. the interpretation provides guidance on how a contributor should account for its interest in a decommissioning fund and what obligations fall on that contributor.
the application of the interpretation did not have a material impact on the group.
An amendment to iAs 19 was issued in April 2004 and is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006. the amendment allows the recognition of actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefit obligations to be recognised directly in equity in the period in which they occur.
Segmental Information the groups activities are in one business segment being the generation and sale of electricity from activities acquired on 14 January 2005 and are in one geographic segment being the united Kingdom.
there are no other significant classes of business or geographic areas.
Output and Revenue the analysis of output that is unaudited is as follows: Year ended 15 January to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 TWh tWh Output Agr nuclear power stations 51.5 12.3 pWr nuclear power station 8.9 2.0 Coal-fired power station 8.0 2.5 Total output 68.4 16.8 Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 54 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 4.
Output and Revenue continued An analysis of revenue is as follows: Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Revenue Wholesale generation sales 1,175 233 Direct supply sales net of energy supply costs 1,017 170 Revenue from generated electricity 2,192 403 Energy supply costs recharged to customers 356 73 Energy purchases 26 17 Miscellaneous income 19 6 Total revenue 2,593 499 All sales are made to external customers.
Operating and Energy Costs Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Operating and energy costs Fuel costs 556 127 Materials and services 487 82 staff costs before exceptional operating expenses see note 6 322 63 Energy purchases 26 17 Energy supply costs 356 73 Total operating and energy costs 1,747 362 operating and energy costs are stated after charging: Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m research and development 13 3 operating lease costs 3 1 Movement in provision for unburnt fuel at station closure 10 1 Movement in provision against stores inventory 2 2 Movement in provision for doubtful debts 6 Auditors remuneration it is the groups policy to engage the external auditors,  LLp, on assignments where their expertise and experience with the group are important, or where they win work on a competitive basis.
An analysis of auditors remuneration which arose in the year ended 31 March 2006 and the period from 15 January 2005 to 31 March 2005 is provided below: Year ended 15 January to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 000 000 Audit services statutory 1,070 328 Audit related regulatory reporting 974 1,157 Taxation tax services 204 24 Other other non-audit services 496 235 Total auditors remuneration 2,744 1,744 British EnErgy group plc 55 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 5.
Operating and Energy Costs continued the group deregistered from the us securities and Exchange Commission during the year and therefore no longer has an obligation to comply with s404 of the sarbanes-oxley Act 2002. there are no  LLp fees relating to compliance with s404 for the year ended 31 March 2006. the fees associated with the statutory audit for the period from 15 January 2005 to 31 March 2005 have been allocated on a time apportionment basis.
Fees associated with the auditors review of compliance with s404 of the sarbanes-oxley Act 2002 have been allocated in full to the period from 15 January 2005 to 31 March 2005 and are disclosed in the category of audit related regulatory reporting above.
included within audit related regulatory reporting is 316,000 of costs that were recharged to a third party.
 LLp acted as auditors to the groups pension schemes.
the appointment of auditors to the groups pension schemes and the fees paid in respect of these audits, which are included in other non-audit services and were 33,000 for the year, are agreed and borne by the trustees of each scheme, who act independently from the management of the group.
Employee Information i Staff costs Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m salaries 245 50 social security costs 26 5 pension costs see note 25 53 9 Amounts capitalised 5 1 share-based payments see note 32 3 total staff costs before exceptional operating expenses 322 63 other exceptional operating expenses 19 Total staff costs 322 82 included within staff costs for the period from 2 July 2004 to 31 March 2005 were exceptional charges of 19m in respect of severance 2006: nil.
included within this 19m was a 4m past service cost see note 25. this was contributed to the pension schemes during the year ended 31 March 2006.
Amounts capitalised are transferred to property, plant and equipment and recorded within the additions line of note 13. ii Employee numbers 2006 2005 Number number Average number of employees during the year 5,532 5,470 Average number of full-time equivalent employees by category during the year were: 2006 2005 Number number Power stations: nuclear 3,807 3,764 coal-fired 253 259 Engineering, technical and corporate support 1,420 1,428 Average number of full-time equivalents 5,480 5,451 7.
Key Management Compensation the remuneration of key management personnel during the year was as follows: Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 000 000 salaries and other short-term employee benefits 4,150 708 termination benefits 654 post employment benefits 160 18 share-based payments 1,557 98 Total of key management compensation 6,521 824 Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 56 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 7.
Key Management Compensation continued Key management personnel comprises Executive members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee.
Emoluments of key management personnel are borne by British Energy Limited, a subsidiary company, with one exception whose emoluments are borne by British Energy power and Energy trading Limited, another subsidiary company.
the amounts received by the Board of Directors in respect of their services as Directors was 671,000 2005: 136,000. no key management personnel received emoluments from the Company in the period from incorporation to 14 January 2005 and therefore the summary provided for the period from 2 July 2004 to 31 March 2005 relates to emoluments received by key management personnel for the period from 15 January 2005 to 31 March 2005.
Full details of the remuneration and share interests of the Board of Directors for the year ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 are set out in the remuneration Committee report on pages 31 to 38.
Cash Sweep Payment under the terms of the restructuring the Company has an obligation to make payments to the nLF should certain criteria be met.
the basis of the Cash sweep payment and estimated cost, which remains subject to review by the nLF, is as follows: Year ended 15 January to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m increase in cash as per the consolidated statement of cash flows 403 235 Decrease increase in restricted cash 15 221 increase in restricted cash excluded from the Cash sweep payment 5 Decrease increase in restricted cash for Agreed Collateral purposes 15 216 other reconciling items 3 3 increase in available cash 391 448 Less: Amounts received from issue or sale of ordinary shares 9 transfer to Forecast Expenditure reserve in the year 177 Cash required to be retained to meet target Amount 43 448 Adjusted net cash flow 162 Weighted average payment percentage 64.74% 65.00% Cash Sweep Payment 105 An accrual for the Cash sweep payment is included in trade and other payables within current liabilities see note 22.
Available cash has been invested in accordance with the Contribution Agreement.
Target Amount the target Amount is 490m plus the incremental Collateral Amount, which is the amount by which cash applied to providing collateral for the generation, sale and purchase by the group of electricity i. e. for Agreed Collateral purposes exceeds 200m.
Any increase or decrease in the incremental Collateral Amount shall automatically increase or decrease the target Amount by the same amount.
the restricted cash for Agreed Collateral purposes at 31 March 2006 is 201m 2005: 216m, therefore the target Amount at the balance sheet dates is as follows: Year ended 15 January to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Base target Amount 490 490 incremental collateral in excess of 200m see above 1 16 Target Amount at 31 March 491 506 forecast Expenditure reserve the group has allocated 177m 2005: nil to the Forecast Expenditure reserve to meet capital expenditure commitments and non-recurring maintenance and repair of a capital nature which is payable in the following financial year, as well as to fund capital expenditure, as defined in the underlying agreements.
British EnErgy group plc 57 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 8.
Cash Sweep Payment continued Cash required to be retained to Meet Target Amount the cash required to be retained to meet the target Amount is as follows: Year ended 15 January to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m target amount at 31 March 491 506 Cash below target Amount 58 Cash required to be retained to meet target Amount in prior period 448 Cash required to be retained to meet Target Amount 43 448 Weighted Average Payment Percentage the weighted average payment percentage has decreased from 65.00% at 31 March 2005 to 64.74% at 31 March 2006, as a result of Warrants being exercised throughout the year.
the calculation is weighted to take account of the dates that the exercises took place during the year.
Payment Percentage the nLF Cash sweep percentage is 64.63% at 31 March 2006 2005: 64.99%.
9. Financing Charges Credits Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Interest payable: interest payable on bonds 47 10 other interest payable 3 Total interest payable 50 10 Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Interest receivable: interest receivable 26 5 Total interest receivable 26 5 2 July 2004 to Year 31 March ended 2005 31 March restated: see 2006 note 1 viii m m Other finance expenses: revalorisation of nuclear liabilities see note 23 changes in price levels 125 29 discharge of discount for year 151 33 revalorisation of nuclear liabilities receivable 122 29 revalorisation of nLF receivable 154 33 revalorisation of contracts provision see note 24 10 2 revalorisation of nLF liabilities see note 26 12 3 Net revalorisation charges 22 5 Expected return on plan assets in the pension schemes see note 25 136 28 interest on defined benefit obligations see note 25 126 27 Net credit to finance charges for retirement benefit obligations 10 1 Total other finance expenses 12 4 Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 58 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 10.
Taxation i Analysis of Tax Charge for the Year Tax Charged to the Consolidated Income Statement Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Deferred tax: temporary differences Current year 221 19 prior year 52 Tax charged to the consolidated income statement 169 19 included within the 52m prior year differences is a 23m 2005: nil credit in relation to recognition of a deferred tax asset at 31 March 2006, which at rED did not satisfy the recognition criteria within iFrs 3 Business Combinations iFrs 3 due to uncertainty of recoverability see note 15.
Tax on Items Taken Directly to Equity Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Deferred tax: Actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefit obligations 26 25 Losses on hedged items 3 23 25 Deferred tax on adjustment for implementation of iAs 39 7 Tax on items taken directly to equity 16 25 ii reconciliation of the Total Tax Charge the tax expense in the consolidated income statement for the year is lower 2005: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the uK of 30% 2005: 30%.
the differences are reconciled below: Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m profit before taxation 599 60 tax on profit at the uK standard rate of corporation tax of 30% 2005: 30% 180 18 non tax-deductible or non-taxable items 41 1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 52 Taxation charged to the consolidated income statement 169 19 British EnErgy group plc 59 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 10.
Taxation continued iii Deferred Income Tax Asset An analysis of the movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities is shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset as they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities.
Financial Accelerated Advance retirement instruments and capital tax corporation Decommbenefit Contracts commodity other timing allowances losses tax issioning obligations provision contracts differences total m m m m m m m m m Acquired on Restructuring 220 331 77 73 138 74 473 Charge credit to consolidated income statement 2 19 1 1 19 recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense 25 25 As at 31 March 2005 222 312 77 73 114 75 429 Adjustment for the implementation of iAs 39 at 1 April 2005 4 11 7 Adjusted balance as at 1 April 2005 222 312 77 73 114 71 11 436 Charge credit to consolidated income statement 94 51 29 24 25 6 2 169 recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense 26 3 23 As at 31 March 2006 316 261 77 102 64 46 8 2 244 244m of the net deferred tax asset is expected to reverse within the next 12 months.
Within the net deferred tax asset, recognition is given for unutilised tax losses to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable income is probable.
At 31 March 2006 the group had recognised a deferred tax asset of 261m 2005: 312m in respect of income tax losses of approximately 869m 2005: 1,041m.
realisation of these losses is expected between 2007 and 2015, however, based on current electricity prices, the losses may be fully relieved towards the beginning of this timeframe.
Unrealised Net Gains on Financial Instruments and Commodity Contracts Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m unrealised net gains on financial instruments and commodity contracts 18 the unrealised net gains on financial instruments and commodity contracts of 18m 2005: nil represent the net movements in the fair value of held for trading financial instruments and commodity contracts in the year.
Further details of the groups financial instruments and commodity contracts are set out in note 16. iAs 39 was adopted on 1 April 2005 and therefore there are no unrealised gains or losses on financial instruments and commodity contracts in the period ended 31 March 2005.
Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 60 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 12.
Earnings Per Share Basic Earnings Per Share the basic earnings per share for the year has been calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Diluted Earnings Per Share the diluted earnings per share calculation is based on the weighted average of 566,822,853 2005: 560,728,509 ordinary shares in issue together with the dilutive weighted average of potential ordinary shares of 15,886,021 2005: 18,291,587 in respect of Warrants.
Adjusted Earnings Per Share the Directors consider that the adjusted earnings per share calculation is a more appropriate earnings measure because the Cash sweep payment of 105m 2005: nil and the net profit attributable to shareholders of 430m 2005: 41m does not necessarily reflect the respective economic interests of the nLF and equity shareholders in the profits of the group.
the calculation in any given year of the annual Cash sweep payment is based on cash flows and the retention of appropriate cash target Amount and expenditure Forecast Expenditure reserve reserves see note 8. the adjusted earnings per share has been calculated by excluding the Cash sweep payment expense from earnings and adjusting the weighted average share capital by the number of shares that would have been in issue if the nLF had fully converted their interest at the balance sheet date.
Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 Basic earnings per share net profit for the year attributable to shareholders m 430 41 Weighted average share capital number of shares 566,822,853 560,728,509 Earnings per share pence 75.9 7.3 Diluted earnings per share net profit for the year attributable to shareholders m 430 41 Diluted weighted average share capital number of shares 582,708,874 579,020,096 Diluted earnings per share pence 73.8 7.1 Adjusted earnings per share net profit for the year attributable to shareholders m 430 41 Cash sweep payment m 105 Adjusted earnings m 535 41 Basic weighted average share capital number of shares 566,822,853 560,728,509 Maximum Cash sweep conversion at balance sheet date number of shares 1,041,887,863 1,041,888,745 Adjusted weighted average share capital number of shares 1,608,710,716 1,602,617,254 Adjusted earnings per share pence 33.3 2.6 British EnErgy group plc 61 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 13.
Property, Plant and Equipment other land other plant power and and stations buildings equipment total m m m m Cost Acquired on restructuring 1,579 46 75 1,700 Additions 19 14 33 Disposals 7 7 As at 31 March 2005 1,598 39 89 1,726 Additions 99 116 215 Disposals 21 9 30 As at 31 March 2006 1,676 39 196 1,911 Accumulated depreciation Charge for the period 28 12 40 As at 31 March 2005 28 12 40 Charge for the year 127 64 191 Disposals 4 9 13 As at 31 March 2006 151 67 218 Carrying amount As at 31 March 2006 1,525 39 129 1,693 As at 31 March 2005 1,570 39 77 1,686 property, plant and equipment with a net book value of 275m 2005: 279m is subject to security restrictions see note 21. included in property, plant and equipment is 15m 2005: nil of capital work in progress which is not depreciated.
NLF and Nuclear Liabilities Receivables 2005 restated: 2006 see note 1 viii m m Non-current assets nLF receivable 2,992 2,831 nuclear liabilities receivable 2,059 2,131 5,051 4,962 Current assets nuclear liabilities receivable 186 181 Total NLF and nuclear liabilities receivables 5,237 5,143 the nLF receivable asset represents amounts that will be reimbursed by the nLF equal to the qualifying nuclear liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date.
the balance recognised at 31 March 2006 is receivable after more than one year and is restricted in its use.
this matches the uncontracted nuclear liabilities and decommissioning costs see note 23, included in non-current liabilities.
the nuclear liabilities receivable represents amounts due under the historic BnFL contracts which will be reimbursed by the government.
this matches the contracted nuclear liabilities included in current and non-current liabilities see note 23.
Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 62 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 15.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets roCs Carbon goodwill software and LECs allowances total m m m m m Cost Arising and acquired on restructuring 345 22 4 371 Additions 2 4 6 As at 31 March 2005 345 24 8 377 Additions 5 30 34 69 Disposals 11 11 As at 31 March 2006 345 29 27 34 435 Accumulated amortisation and other charges Charge for the period 1 1 As at 31 March 2005 1 1 Charge for the year 23 5 28 As at 31 March 2006 23 6 29 Carrying amount As at 31 March 2006 322 23 27 34 406 As at 31 March 2005 345 23 8 376 goodwill arising on acquisition at rED is not amortised but is reviewed annually for impairment.
goodwill has been fully allocated for impairment testing purposes to one cash generating unit being the total of the groups generation assets.
the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit at 31 March 2006 has been determined based on a value in use calculation which has key assumptions relating to output, discount rates and market prices for electricity and fuel costs over the lives of the assets.
Market prices for electricity are based on available market data and the groups projections of long-term market prices.
the discount rate used is the groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
the Directors concluded that no impairment of the goodwill carrying value existed at 31 March 2006. under the requirements of iFrs 3, 23m 2005: nil has been charged to the consolidated income statement to reduce goodwill in relation to recognition of a deferred tax asset at 31 March 2006, which at rED did not satisfy the recognition criteria within iFrs 3 due to uncertainty of recoverability.
Additionally 23m 2005: nil has been credited within the tax charge in the consolidated income statement to reflect the recognition of the deferred tax asset see note 10. software is amortised over its estimated operational life for a maximum of five years.
the amortisation of software is recognised in the amortisation and other charges line of the consolidated income statement.
roCs and LECs have a sustainable value and can be used in settlement of an obligation over an undefined period and therefore, on this basis, roCs and LECs are not amortised.
Carbon allowances are not amortised because they are held to settle an obligation and therefore have a sustainable value.
Financial Instruments and Derivatives IFRS Overview the group adopted iAs 32 and iAs 39 on 1 April 2005, as set out in note 2 xix.
the following disclosures are included, as at 31 March 2006, to satisfy the requirements of iAs 32. see note 17 for the disclosures under uK gAAp for the period ended 31 March 2005. the groups principal financial instruments include derivative commodity contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity, purchase of coal and carbon allowances, interest bearing debt, loans, cash held in collateral accounts, cash and short-term deposits.
the main financial risks faced by the group are trading risks in respect of the sale of electricity.
Electricity trading risks, including exposure to price fluctuation, balancing of output volume with contractual commitments and commodity contract credit risk, are managed by a central power and Energy trading Division which operates within policies and procedures that are approved and monitored by the Board.
non-trading risks, including liquidity, interest rate and foreign exchange risks are managed by the central treasury Department which also operates within policies and procedures that are approved and monitored by the Board.
the treasury Department is not permitted to take speculative, open positions.
the foregoing discussion summarises how the group manages its exposures to commodity prices, credit risk, liquidity, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Full details of the groups risks and the strategy for managing those exposures are set out in the Financial review on pages 14 to 21. the group also has an exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in the debt and equity markets through the pension schemes: further details of the pension schemes are provided in note 25.
British EnErgy group plc 63 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 16.
Financial Instruments and Derivatives IFRS continued fair Values set out below is a comparison by category of book values and fair values of all the groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 March 2006.
Book value Fair value 2006 2006 m m Financial instruments and commodity contracts Financial assets held for trading 26 26 hedging relationships 3 3 29 29 Financial liabilities held for trading 11 11 hedging relationships 46 46 57 57 Total financial instruments and commodity contracts 28 28 Book value Fair value 2006 2006 m m Other financial assets and liabilities Financial assets nLF and nuclear liabilities receivables 5,237 5,237 trade receivables 405 405 restricted cash 206 206 Cash and cash equivalents 638 638 6,486 6,486 Financial liabilities Borrowings 626 628 trade payables 166 166 Accruals 346 346 Back end fuel costs contracted 2,245 2,245 provisions for other liabilities and charges 22 22 nLF liabilities 221 221 3,626 3,628 Total other financial assets and liabilities 2,860 2,858 Details of the categories of financial assets and liabilities are set out below.
financial Instruments and Commodity Contracts All contracts for the sale of electricity through British Energy Direct, most long-term structured sales contracts and all coal procurement contracts are categorised as being held for the groups own purchase, sale or usage requirements and are therefore accounted for on an accruals basis because they are outside the scope of iAs 39. gtMA contracts are within the scope of iAs 39 as the group has a practice of net settling these contracts.
As a result, all changes in fair value impact the consolidated income statement for those contracts which do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting.
the movements in fair value in the year are presented within unrealised net gains on financial instruments and commodity contracts in the consolidated income statement.
Cash flow hedge accounting has been utilised wherever possible to ensure that earnings continue to be recognised in line with the groups operational strategies by reflecting the earnings effects of derivative instruments in the same period as the hedged item affects earnings.
the variability of cash flows arising from a highly probable forecast sale of electricity under an existing variable priced own use sales contract has been designated as a hedged item for cash flow hedge accounting purposes.
Fair value changes of those gtMA contracts which meet the requirements for cash flow hedge accounting are deferred in equity, within the hedge reserve, until settlement of the hedging instrument or hedged item.
options contracts are recognised at fair value, with movements in fair value being presented within unrealised net gains on financial instruments and commodity contracts in the consolidated income statement.
Exposures have been expressed as net positions by counterparty wherever there is the intention and ability to legally set off assets and liabilities.
Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 64 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 16.
Financial Instruments and Derivatives IFRS continued i Held for Trading the group classifies as held for trading short-term contracts, contracts which are not designated as cash flow hedges and contracts which have been fide-designated from hedging relationships.
typically the term of these contracts does not exceed 12 months with prices fixed at inception.
the fair value of financial instruments and commodity contracts asset and liability positions are valued, where possible, using quoted market prices.
More details on the method for determining fair value is set out in note 2 xix.
the fair value of held for trading instruments equals the book value at 31 March 2006.
At 31 March 2006 the group had held for trading assets of 26m and liabilities of 11m.
the movement in the fair value in the year is presented within unrealised net gains on financial instruments and commodity contracts in the consolidated income statement and totals 18m before tax.
the principal value of held for trading financial instruments and commodity contracts at 31 March 2006 was 488m, of which 446m falls due within one year and 42m falls due after more than one year but not more than three years.
ii Hedging Relationships As at 31 March 2006, cash flow hedges were in place up to 31 March 2007 with the uncertain cash flows on certain variable priced sales contracts being hedged by fixed price gtMA transactions.
the fair value of hedging instruments equals the book value at 31 March 2006.
At 31 March 2006 the group had cash flow hedging instrument assets of 3m and liabilities of 46m.
the movement in hedging relationships in the year was 12m and is presented as a charge to the hedge reserve within equity.
there are no forecast transactions previously thought to be available for hedge accounting that are no longer expected to occur.
the principal value of financial instruments and commodity contracts which are hedging relationships at 31 March 2006 was 152m, all of which fall due within one year.
Other financial Assets and Liabilities the basis of valuation for the nLF and nuclear liabilities receivables is referred to in note 14. the carrying values of short-term trade receivables, trade payables and accruals are reasonable approximations of their fair values.
the fair values of restricted cash and cash and cash equivalents approximates the book values due to short-term maturities.
Details of the interest rate profile of these financial assets is included in note 20.
Borrowings consist of the groups Bonds and the fair value has been estimated using the quoted closing clean market price at the balance sheet date.
Details of the interest rate and maturity profile of these financial liabilities is included in note 21. the basis of valuation of back end fuel costs is included in note 23.
For provisions and other charges the book value has been used to approximate the fair value.
For details of the nLF liabilities valuation refer to note 26. foreign Exchange the group uses foreign exchange contracts and other derivative instruments as deemed necessary to hedge the primary market exposures associated with the groups underlying assets, liabilities and committed transactions.
there are potential future foreign currency receivables in respect of amounts outstanding from the sale of Bruce power.
When these cash flows become more certain in the future, the group will evaluate currency hedging opportunities.
At 31 March 2006 and 2005 there were no foreign exchange contracts in place.
During the year to 31 March 2006 the group had three main sources of exposure to potential foreign currency risk.
these exposures related to contracts for the purchase of coal and uranics, which are predominantly in us Dollars, and the purchase of carbon allowances, which are in Euros.
the group has a number of different contracts in place to purchase coal, the most significant of which has a pricing formula that includes the specifics of the Dollar exchange rate to be used.
For details of the groups commitments to purchase coal see note 36. the group bears pass through foreign currency costs relating to the supply, conversion and enrichment of uranium at the average exchange rate relevant to the fuel supplied.
As at 31 March 2006, the group had foreign currency commitments for nuclear fuel amounting to 186m out of a total fuel commitment of 1,642m see note 36.
During the year the group has been involved in the purchase of 34m of carbon allowances at the Euro foreign exchange rate ruling at the time of the transaction see note 2 xxv.
Additionally the group has 63m 2005: nil of commitments to purchase forward allowances at 31 March 2006.
British EnErgy group plc 65 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 17.
Financial Instruments and Derivatives UK GAAP the group exercised the iFrs 1 exemption to record financial instruments in the comparative period on the existing uK gAAp basis.
the accounting policy is disclosed in note 2 xx.
the following disclosures are included, as at 31 March 2005, to satisfy the requirements of Frs 13 Derivatives and other Financial instruments: Disclosures.
Disclosures include short-term debtors and creditors and exclude commodity power contracts.
i Fair Values set out below is a comparison by category of book values and fair values of all the groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 March 2005.
2005 2005 Book value Fair value m m Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: short-term assets 725 725 short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term borrowings 388 388 Long-term assets 4,175 4,175 Long-term borrowings and liabilities 3,221 3,220 1,291 1,292 the fair value of the short-term assets approximates to book value due to their short-term maturities.
short-term borrowings comprise trade creditors and retentions.
the book value of these liabilities has been used to approximate fair value.
Long-term assets comprise the nLF receivable and nuclear liabilities receivable.
the basis of valuation is referred to in note 14.
Long-term borrowings and liabilities comprise the groups nuclear liabilities, net contracts provisions, other provisions and Bonds.
the book value has been used to approximate fair value for all long-term liabilities other than the long-term Bonds where the quoted closing clean market price at the balance sheet date has been used to determine the fair valuation.
ii Interest Rate Risk Profile of Financial Liabilities the interest rate profile of financial liabilities of the group as at 31 March 2005 was: Financial Floating Mixed rate liabilities on rate Fixed rate financial which no financial financial liabilities interest total liabilities liabilities see below is paid Currency m m m m m sterling 3,609 676 2,933 Financial liabilities on which no interest Fixed rate financial liabilities is paid Weighted average Weighted Weighted period for average average which the period until interest rate rate is fixed maturity Currency % years years sterling 7.0 7.4 10.6 Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 66 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 17.
Financial Instruments and Derivatives UK GAAP continued iii Interest Rate Risk Profile of Financial Assets the group held the following financial assets as at 31 March 2005: 2005 m Assets held as part of the financing arrangements of the Group: Short-term financial assets sterling 722 non-sterling 3 725 Long-term financial assets sterling 4,175 4,900 short-term financial assets comprise cash, investment in liquid funds and debtors excluding prepayments all of which have maturity dates within one year.
Cash not immediately required for business purposes is invested in fixed rate term deposits and money market funds.
At 31 March 2005 the term deposits and money market funds not used to provide collateral were due to mature or were available within one month and earned interest at an average rate of 4.77%.
the balance of 216m, which was deposited in support of collateral requirements, earned an average rate of 4.02%.
Availability of the cash is restricted over the periods of the collateralised positions.
Long-term financial assets comprise the nLF receivable and nuclear liabilities receivable.
iv Maturity Profile of Financial Liabilities 2005 m Less than one year 512 Between one and two years 341 Between two and five years 816 over five years 1,940 3,609 18.
Inventories 2006 2005 m m Current assets unburnt nuclear fuel in reactors 1,013 1,002 provision for unburnt fuel at station closure 822 812 net unburnt nuclear fuel in reactors 191 190 other nuclear fuel 89 77 Coal stocks 19 14 stores 43 50 Total inventories 342 331 19.
Trade and Other Receivables 2006 2005 m m Current assets trade receivables 405 246 other receivables 47 62 prepayments 3 19 Total trade and other receivables 455 327 trade receivables are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts of 9m at 31 March 2006 2005: 3m.
included within other receivables is 4m 2005: 47m which relates to commodity contracts outside the scope of iAs 39, which were fair valued at rED as a result of acquisition accounting.
the asset is being utilised over the lives of the contracts see note 24.
British EnErgy group plc 67 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 20.
Restricted Cash and Cash and Cash Equivalents 2006 2005 m m Current assets Cash used for collateral 201 216 other restricted cash 5 5 total restricted cash 206 221 Cash and cash equivalents 638 235 Total restricted cash and cash and cash equivalents 844 456 At 31 March 2006 the total of investments in liquid funds and cash at bank amounted to 844m 2005: 456m and in each case had maturity dates due within one year.
Cash not immediately required for business purposes is invested in money market funds.
At 31 March 2006 the money market funds not used to fund collateral were due to mature or were available within one month and earned interest at an average rate of 4.41% 2005: 4.77%.
Money market funds and bank balances at 31 March 2006 include 201m 2005: 216m of cash that has been deposited in collateral bank accounts and earned interest at an average rate of 3.89% 2005: 4.02%.
Availability of this cash is, therefore, restricted over the periods of the collateralised positions.
For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank of 638m 2005: 235m.
Borrowings 2006 2005 m m Long-term project finance loan sterling 134 145 Bonds sterling 492 531 626 676 2006 2005 m m The borrowings mature as follows: Current liabilities Amounts falling due within one year 53 50 Non-current liabilities Amounts falling due after more than one year but not more than two years 57 53 Amounts falling due after more than two years but not more than five years 196 183 Amounts falling due in more than five years 320 390 573 626 Total borrowings 626 676 total debt of 626m 2005: 676m comprised: a long-term project finance loan of 134m 2005: 145m secured on the assets of Eggborough power Limited EpL, a subsidiary company that operates the Eggborough coal-fired power station.
the loan bears interest at a rate of 7.0%.
an aggregate principal amount of 492m 2005: 531m sterling denominated guaranteed bonds now due between 2007 and 2022. the bonds bear interest at a rate of 7.0%.
the effective interest rate of the groups fixed rate borrowings is 7.0%.
the long-term project finance loan is secured by a mortgage over the shares of EpL, an assignment of the EpL share purchase Agreement and tax Deed of Covenant and a debenture comprising fixed and floating charges over EpLs assets.
the group has a receivables financing facility agreement with Barclays Bank pLC of up to a maximum of 60m 2005: 60m subject to the level of trade receivables.
the facility contains detailed covenants for the benefit of the facility provider, which mirror those under the Bonds.
in addition to these, the agreement also contains a financial interest coverage covenant assessed on a consolidated group-wide basis and covenants relating to the conduct of the electricity supply business customary for a receivables facility.
At 31 March 2006 and 2005 the facility was undrawn.
Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 68 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 22.
Trade and Other Payables 2006 2005 m m Current liabilities nLF liabilities see note 26 21 20 trade payables 166 129 other taxes and social security 90 58 Cash sweep payment accrual see note 8 105 Accruals 241 171 Total trade and other payables 623 378 23.
Nuclear Liabilities Back end Back end fuel costs fuel costs Decom- 2006 contracted uncontracted missioning Total m m m m As at 31 March 2005 restated see note 1 viii 2,312 285 2,546 5,143 Charged to the consolidated income statement: revalorisation see note 9 122 16 138 276 Loadings of pWr fuel 7 7 payments in the year 189 189 As at 31 March 2006 2,245 308 2,684 5,237 the year end balances of nuclear liabilities are included in the consolidated balance sheet as follows: 2005 restated: 2006 see note 1 viii m m Current liabilities nuclear liabilities 186 181 Non-current liabilities nuclear liabilities 5,051 4,962 Total nuclear liabilities 5,237 5,143 Back End fuel Costs Accruals for Agr spent fuel services relating to fuel loaded into reactors up to rED are based on the terms of the historic Liability Funding Agreement hLFA with BnFL, or the groups estimates where no contracts exist.
the pattern of payments within the hLFA were fixed subject to indexation by rpi at rED and will be funded by the government under the government indemnity.
provisions for services relating to the disposal of nuclear waste and the storage and disposal of pWr spent fuel are based on cost estimates derived from the latest technical assessments.
Decommissioning the costs of decommissioning the power stations have been estimated on the basis of on-going technical assessments of the processes and methods likely to be used for decommissioning under the current regulatory regime.
the estimates are designed to reflect the costs of making the sites of the power stations available for alternative use in accordance with the groups decommissioning strategy.
Projected Payment Details Based on current estimates of station lives and lifetime output projections, the following table shows, in current prices, the likely undiscounted payments, the equivalent sums discounted at 3% real per annum to the balance sheet date and the amounts accrued to date.
2005 Back end Back end total fuel costs fuel costs Decom- 2006 restated: contracted uncontracted missioning Total see note 1 viii bn bn bn bn bn undiscounted 2.9 2.5 8.6 14.0 13.9 Discounted 2.2 0.5 2.7 5.4 5.2 Accrued to date 2.2 0.3 2.7 5.2 5.1 the differences between the undiscounted and discounted amounts reflect the fact that the costs concerned will not fall due for payment for a number of years.
the differences between the discounted amounts and those accrued to date will be charged to the consolidated income statement over the remaining station lives since they relate to future use of fuel.
British EnErgy group plc 69 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 23.
Nuclear Liabilities continued under the terms of the contracts with BnFL referred to above and in accordance with the projected pattern of payments for decommissioning and other liabilities, taking account of the decommissioning fund arrangements described in note 2 xvii, the undiscounted payments in current prices are expected to become payable as follows: 2005 Back end Back end total fuel costs fuel costs Decom- 2006 restated: contracted uncontracted missioning Total see note 1 viii m m m m m Within five years 956 6 21 983 943 610 years 915 16 666 1,597 1,420 1125 years 1,002 136 2,244 3,382 3,575 2650 years 350 1,271 1,621 1,624 51 years and over 2,042 4,376 6,418 6,302 2,873 2,550 8,578 14,001 13,864 24.
Provisions for Other Liabilities and Charges 2006 2005 m m Current liabilities Contracts provision 110 207 other provisions 17 23 127 230 Non-current liabilities Contracts provision 47 94 other provisions 12 14 59 108 Total provisions for other liabilities and charges 186 338 Movements in provisions for other liabilities and charges in the year ended 31 March 2006 are as follows: Contracts other 2006 provision provisions Total m m m As at 1 April 2005 301 37 338 transfer to financial instruments and commodity contracts on implementation of iAs 39 27 27 Arising during the year 1 1 utilised in the year 127 9 136 revalorisation 10 10 As at 31 March 2006 157 29 186 i Contracts Provision the groups portfolio of commodity contracts was fair valued at rED, prior to the implementation of iAs 39, as part of the application of acquisition accounting, resulting in a net contracts provision.
on adoption of iFrs the net contracts provision has been reclassified into its constituent gross elements, with the liability for contracts at rED being presented in provisions for liabilities and charges, and assets for contracts at rED being presented in receivables due after more than one year and trade and other receivables, as follows: 2006 2005 m m Non-current assets receivables due after more than one year 4 Current assets trade and other receivables see note 19 4 47 Current liabilities provisions for other liabilities and charges 110 207 Non-current liabilities provisions for other liabilities and charges 47 94 153 250 Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 70 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 24.
Provisions for Other Liabilities and Charges continued the movements in the net contracts provision in the year were as follows: 2006 m As at 31 March 2005 250 Adjustment on implementation of iAs 39 12 utilised in the year 95 revalorisation see note 9 10 As at 31 March 2006 153 the net contracts provision is being utilised over the lives of the contracts fair valued at rED and is expected to be fully utilised by 2011. this utilisation is presented in the other operating income costs line of the consolidated income statement.
the value of 153m 2005: 250m represents the net value of contracts in place at rED, less the utilisation and plus revalorisation of the provision to the balance sheet date, adjusted for the implementation of iAs 39 on 1 April 2005. on implementation of iAs 39, 12m of the fair valued contracts came within the scope of iAs 39, so were transferred from the net contracts provision to financial instruments and commodity contracts.
ii Other Provisions other provisions are made up of severance provisions, a provision for an onerous lease, a provision for additional unfunded retirement benefits see note 25 and a provision for Eggborough site restoration costs.
17m 2005: 26m of the other provisions relate to severance.
of this amount 17m 2005: 23m is classified as current liabilities.
the remainder of the other provisions are classified as non-current.
Retirement Benefit Obligations i Pension Schemes British Energy operates two separate defined benefit pension arrangements in the uK within the Electricity supply pension scheme Esps, the British Energy generation group BEgg for the majority of employees and the British Energy Combined group BECg for the employees at Eggborough power station.
the Esps is a defined benefit scheme, which is externally funded and subject to triennial actuarial valuation.
Each pension group that participates in the Esps is financially independent from the other groups.
the most recent triennial valuations of the BEgg and BECg schemes were carried out at 31 March 2004 by the independent Esps actuary.
the valuations for accounting purposes have been carried out by a separate independent actuary using the projected unit method.
ii Contributions British Energy contributed 22.4% 2005: 17.1% to the BEgg pension scheme and 19.7% 2005: 15.3% to the BECg pension scheme as employers normal contributions for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Members who do not participate in the salary conversion arrangement and who are required to pay employee contributions contribute 5% and 6% to the BEgg and BECg schemes respectively.
Members who participate in the salary conversion arrangements have their salaries reduced by 5% or 6% depending on whether they are members of the BEgg or BECg scheme, these monies being paid to the BEgg and BECg schemes as additional employer contributions.
the group expects to contribute 42m, excluding the impact of the groups salary conversion arrangements, to the schemes in the year ending 31 March 2007.
Any deficiency disclosed in the BEgg or BECg schemes following an actuarial valuation will be funded by the group.
Additional employer contributions were paid towards the BEgg schemes funding deficiency of 69m for the year ended 31 March 2006 2005: nil.
the 69m included 19m of agreed additional contributions and 50m of accelerated contributions.
Based on the assumptions used at the last triennial valuation, the accelerated contribution now brings the expected deficit repair plan within a 10 year timeframe, recognising the indicative guidelines provided by the pensions regulator.
At the time of the last triennial valuation it was agreed that amounts totalling 19.5m for the year ending 31 March 2007 and 20m for the year ending 31 March 2008 will be paid towards the funding deficiency of the BEgg scheme and that these additional contributions will rise to 50.3m for the year ending 31 March 2009 and remain at that level until the year ending 31 March 2017. the requirement for additional contributions will be reviewed as part of the next triennial valuation as at 31 March 2007. the group made additional employer contributions of 1m 2005: nil to the BECg scheme in the year and will continue to make additional employer contributions towards the funding deficiency, having regard to appropriate funding advice.
At 31 March 2006 there was 3m 2005: 1m of contributions owed to the pension schemes included in accruals.
iii Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet the amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet in respect of the groups funded defined benefit pension schemes is as follows: 2006 2005 m m Fair value of plan assets 2,455 1,962 present value of funded defined benefit obligations 2,670 2,343 Retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated balance sheet 215 381 Certain additional retirement benefits are provided to eligible employees.
these obligations are unfunded and the liability recorded at 31 March 2006 was 3m 2005: 2m and is included within other provisions see note 24.
British EnErgy group plc 71 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 25.
Retirement Benefit Obligations continued iv Plan Assets, Expected rates of return and Benefit Obligations Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2006 2005 m m opening fair value of plan assets 1,962 1,943 Expected return on plan assets 136 28 Actuarial gains 312 2 Contributions by employer 124 7 Contributions by plan participants 7 3 Benefits paid 86 21 Closing fair value of plan assets 2,455 1,962 the plan assets include investments in the groups equity, amounting to less than 1% of plan assets.
the major categories of plan assets and their expected rates of return are as follows: 2006 2005 Expected Expected return 2006 return 2005 % m % m Equities 7.90 1,438 8.20 1,118 Bonds 4.40 565 4.70 510 property 6.15 251 6.45 217 hedge funds 6.40 94 6.70 78 other 4.00 107 4.00 39 Total 2,455 1,962 the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption was developed with consideration to the current level of expected returns on risk free investments primarily government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class.
the expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
the actual return on plan assets was 448m 2005: 30m.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2006 2005 m m opening defined benefit obligations 2,343 2,405 Current service cost 52 9 past service cost 4 interest cost 126 27 Contributions by plan participants 7 3 Actuarial losses gains 224 80 Benefits paid 86 21 Closing defined benefit obligations 2,670 2,343 v Actuarial Assumptions the major assumptions used by the actuaries in determining the defined benefit obligations were: 2006 2005 % p. a.
% p. a. price inflation 2.75 2.75 rate of general increase in salaries 4.25 4.25 rate of increase of pensions in payment 2.75 2.75 Discount rate 5.00 5.50 the mortality assumptions used for determining the defined benefit obligations for the BEgg and BECg are the same as those in the actuarial valuations of both schemes as at 31 March 2004. these assumptions are based on the 92 series tables published by the Continuous Mortality investigations Bureau and have been adjusted in a manner consistent with a reduction in the discount rate used in these valuations.
this has the effect of decreasing the mortality rates assumed.
Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 72 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 25.
Retirement Benefit Obligations continued vi Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement Amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement in respect of the retirement benefit obligations are as follows: Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Current service cost 52 9 past service cost Expected return on plan assets see note 9 136 28 interest cost see note 9 126 27 Total amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement 42 8 the current service cost charge for the year is included in staff costs in the consolidated income statement, and comprises 52m 2005: 9m in respect of the funded defined benefit pension schemes and 1m 2005: nil in respect of the unfunded pension scheme see note 6. the interest cost and expected return on plan assets are included in finance charges in the consolidated income statement.
4m has been contributed to the pension schemes from the group severance provision in relation to past service costs see note 6 during the year ended 31 March 2006 2005: nil.
the expense in relation to the severance costs was charged to the consolidated income statement in the period ended 31 March 2005, at which time the severance element to be paid to the pension scheme was still being determined.
vii Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of recognised Income and Expense Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense in respect of the retirement benefit obligations are as follows: Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Actual return less expected return on pension plan assets 312 2 Experience gains losses arising on defined benefit obligations 16 Changes in assumptions underlying present value of defined benefit obligations 240 80 Actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefit obligations for the year 88 82 the cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses, before deferred tax, recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense is 170m 2005: 82m.
viii History of Experience Gains and Losses the history of schemes deficits is as follows: 2006 2005 m m Fair value of plan assets 2,455 1,962 present value of funded defined benefit obligations 2,670 2,343 215 381 the history of experience gains and losses is as follows: As % of plan As % of plan assets assets obligations obligations 2006 2006 2005 2005 m % m % Actual return less expected return on pension plan assets 312 13 2 Experience gains losses arising on defined benefit obligations 16 1 Changes in assumptions underlying present value of defined benefit obligations 240 9 80 3 British EnErgy group plc 73 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 26.
NLF Liabilities 2006 2005 m m Analysis of NLF liabilities Current see note 22 21 20 non-current 200 210 Total NLF liabilities 221 230 2006 m As at 1 April 2005 230 Charged to the consolidated income statement: revalorisation see note 9 12 payments in the year 21 As at 31 March 2006 221 the nLF liabilities represent the groups commitment arising on restructuring to contribute 20m per annum to the nLF stated in March 2003 values and adjusted for rpi tapering off as the nuclear power stations are currently scheduled to close discounted at 3% real to its net present value.
Deferred Income 2006 2005 m m As at 31 March 5 5 the deferred income recorded relates to consideration received for the two options granted as part of the restructuring that allow the participants in the Eggborough project finance loan to acquire the Eggborough power station assets or shares in Eggborough power Limited, the company that owns the Eggborough power station assets, on 31 March 2010. none of the deferred income will be realised until that date, unless an event of default occurs under the Amended Credit Agreement between Eggborough power Limited and the Eggborough banks, which is the bank syndicate that provided the financing for the Eggborough coal-fired power station.
Called Up Share Capital 2006 2005 m m Authorised: 2,800,000,000 2005: 2,800,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each 280 280 2,000,000,000 2005: 2,000,000,000 convertible shares of 10p each 200 200 one 2005: one special rights redeemable preference share of 1 480 480 2006 2005 m m Allotted, called up and fully paid: Equity shareholders funds: 570,195,496 2005: 561,315,459 ordinary shares of 10p each 57 56 57 56 non-equity shareholders funds: one 2005: one special rights redeemable preference share of 1 Called up share capital 57 56 Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 74 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 28.
Called Up Share Capital continued Movements in each class of shares were as follows: non-voting redeemable ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares preference shares of 1 each of 10p each of 1 each of 1 each number number number number Allotted, called up and fully paid on incorporation 50,000 50,000 issued on 5 october 2004 2 reclassified on 5 october 2004 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 repurchased on 14 January 2005 50,000 50,000 issued on 17 January 2005 561,016,515 56,101,652 1 1 Cancelled on 20 January 2005 2 Warrants exercised 298,944 29,894 As at 1 April 2005 561,315,459 56,131,546 1 1 Warrants exercised 8,880,037 888,004 As at 31 March 2006 570,195,496 57,019,550 1 1 Ordinary Shares the holders of ordinary shares are entitled to be paid any profits of the Company available for distribution and determined to be distributed.
on the winding up of the Company, holders of ordinary shares will be entitled to receive the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on the shares together with any further amounts available to be paid which will be allocated proportionately to holders of ordinary shares.
the holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive notice of general meetings and to attend, speak and vote at such meetings.
Convertible Shares the convertible shares may only be held by nuclear Liabilities Fund Limited or its successor in title, a Minister of the Crown, the treasury, a department, non-departmental body or other agency of the Crown, any body corporate established by statute some or all of the members of which are appointed by a Minister of the Crown or other uK government entity or any person directly or indirectly wholly owned by, or held on trust for, the secretary of state or other Minister of the Crown.
save in respect of voting rights, the convertible shares have the same rights, are subject to the same restrictions and rank pari passu with the ordinary shares of the Company in all respects.
the number of votes that the holder of the convertible shares is entitled to exercise in respect of its holding of convertible shares is the lesser of: i 29.9% and, for this purpose, taking into account the voting rights attributable to any other ordinary shares held or acquired by any person acting in concert with the holder : and ii the number of convertible shares which the holder would otherwise be entitled to vote if the convertible shares were ordinary shares.
the convertible shares will convert into ordinary shares of the Company automatically on transfer to a third party by the holder but are not convertible at the election of the holder prior to such a transfer.
Special rights redeemable Preference Share of 1 the special share is redeemable at par at any time after 30 september 2006 at the option of the secretary of state, after consulting the Company.
this share, which may only be held by and transferred to one or more of her Majestys secretaries of state, another Minister of the Crown, the solicitor for the affairs of her Majestys treasury or any other person acting on behalf of the Crown, does not carry any rights to vote at general meetings, but entitles the holder to attend and speak at such meetings.
the special share confers no rights to participate in the capital or profits of the Company beyond its nominal value.
the consent of the holder of the special share is required for certain matters including the alteration or removal of the provisions in the Companys Articles of Association relating to the special share and to the limitations on shareholdings.
in addition, consent of the holder of the special share is required in relation to, amongst others, certain amendments to the Articles of Association of British Energy holdings plc, British Energy Limited, British Energy generation Limited or British Energy generation uK Limited, or a disposal by the Company of its shares in these companies.
however, the holder of the special share will only be entitled to withhold consent to such an amendment or disposal if, in the holders opinion, the matter in question would be contrary to the interests of national security.
the Articles of Association include full details of these restrictions.
Warrants on restructuring 29,298,286 Warrants of 0.98 were allotted.
the Warrants entitle the holder to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company within five years of restructuring.
Own Shares the group has investments in its own shares through holdings held by British Energy Employee share trust.
the shares were fair valued at rED and this value is presented within total equity.
At 31 March 2006 412,348 shares were held in trust.
the maximum number of own shares held during the year was 434,701.
British EnErgy group plc 75 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 29.
Equity Called up equity share share Capital hedge Warrant retained total capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings equity m m m m m m m Balance on incorporation Arising on restructuring 56 737 767 51 85 1,526 profit for the period 41 41 net income recognised directly in equity 82 82 Deferred tax on items recognised directly in equity 25 25 total income for the period 98 98 investment in own shares 6 6 Capital reduction 737 737 Consideration received for own shares 3 3 As at 31 March 2005 56 767 51 747 1,621 Adjustment for the implementation of iAs 39 at 1 April 2005 31 9 22 Adjustment for deferred tax on the implementation of iAs 39 at 1 April 2005 9 2 7 Adjusted balance as at 1 April 2005 56 767 22 51 754 1,606 profit for the year 430 430 net income recognised directly in equity 12 88 76 Deferred tax on items recognised directly in equity 3 26 23 total expenses income for the year 9 492 483 share-based payments see note 32 3 3 Exercise of Warrants 1 24 16 9 As at 31 March 2006 57 24 767 31 35 1,249 2,101 i Called Up Equity Share Capital Called up equity share capital represents the nominal value of shares in issue see note 28. ii Share Premium the share premium recorded at 31 March 2006 of 24m 2005: nil represents the excess of the fair value of Warrants exercised and Warrant proceeds received since restructuring over the nominal value of the shares issued on exercise.
on restructuring the share premium recorded represented the excess of the fair value of the shares issued at restructuring over their nominal value less the amount allocated to other capital reserves.
on 25 January 2005, the Court approved a reduction of British Energy group plcs share premium account from 737m to nil, thereby creating distributable reserves of 737m.
iii Capital reserve the restructuring involved bondholders and significant creditors compromising their claims against the group in exchange for, amongst other things, the issue of Bonds by British Energy holdings plc a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and new ordinary shares of the Company.
the capital reserve was created on the issue of shares at rED and represents the excess of the fair value of the claims of the significant creditors and bondholders over the legal liability foregone.
the capital reserve is not distributable.
iv Hedge reserve the movement of 12m in the hedge reserve in the year reflects the fair value movement, before deferred tax of 3m, of the contracts that have been designated as cash flow hedging instruments.
the movement of 12m comprises a 31m net loss on hedging instruments recognised in the period, less 19m removed from the hedge reserve and included in the consolidated income statement.
the hedge reserve of 31m less deferred tax of 9m was created at 1 April 2005 on implementation of iAs 39.
Where hedge accounting is permitted, gains and losses on hedging instruments are recognised directly in equity until the contract is settled, at which point the gain or loss is transferred to the consolidated income statement.
When trades are fide-designated as hedging instruments, cumulative gains or losses are retained in equity until the forecast transaction is settled.
v Warrant reserve on restructuring the shareholders in British Energy plc were entitled to receive shares and Warrants in British Energy group plc.
the Warrants entitle the holder to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company within five years of the restructuring.
As the Warrants are exercised this reserve will be transferred to share capital and the share premium account.
During the year, 8,880,037 Warrants 2005: 298,944 were exercised resulting in a 16m 2005: nil reduction in the warrant reserve and a 1m 2005: nil and 24m 2005: nil increase respectively in share capital and share premium.
the proceeds received in the year in relation to the exercise of the Warrants amounted to 9m 2005: nil.
Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 76 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 29.
Equity continued vi retained Earnings total income and expense in the year comprises the profit attributable to shareholders of 430m 2005: 41m, actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefit obligations for the year of 88m 2005: 82m and related deferred tax of 26m 2005: 25m.
under iFrs 2 3m 2005: nil has been credited to retained earnings in relation to the share incentive plan and Long term Deferred Bonus plan see note 32. the fair value of certain debts novated at the time of the restructuring was less than their original legal liability.
the shares issued in exchange for these debts were recorded at the original legal liability and the difference between this and the market value at restructuring resulted in a loss of 85m, which was taken directly to retained earnings, in the period ended 31 March 2005.
Acquisition of British Energy plc on 14 January 2005 British Energy group plc acquired British Energy plc, which was provisionally valued and stated in the 31 March 2005 financial statements.
in accordance with iFrs 3, an adjustment has been made for amendments to those provisional fair values as at 14 January 2005, as stated in the 31 March 2005 financial statements, following the completion of the Quinquennial review.
the provisional and amended values of the net assets acquired are as follows: provisional Amended fair values Adjustments fair values m m m Assets non-current assets 6,331 956 7,287 Current assets 1,382 1,382 Total assets 7,713 956 8,669 Liabilities Current liabilities 893 893 non-current liabilities 5,629 956 6,585 Total liabilities 6,522 956 7,478 Net assets acquired 1,191 1,191 goodwill arising on acquisition 345 345 Consideration paid 1,536 1,536 the adjustments in the table arose following the Quinquennial review, which is subject to final agreement with the nDA and the other regulators nuclear installations inspectorate, the Environment Agency and the scottish Environment protection Agency.
the level of the estimated nuclear liabilities increased by 956m, on a discounted basis, resulting in the total liability at rED being restated at 5,265m.
As part of the restructuring arrangements, the group is indemnified by the government for any future shortfall on nLF funding of qualifying nuclear liabilities and decommissioning costs.
therefore the increase in liabilities was fully offset by a corresponding increase in the indemnity from the government at that date.
see note 1 viii for further details of the restatement of the 2005 comparatives.
Principal Group Companies Details of British Energy group plcs principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows: proportion of ownership interest and voting Country of power principal incorporation % activity British Energy holdings plc great Britain 100 holding company British Energy Limited great Britain 100 holding company British Energy generation uK Limited great Britain 100 generation and sale of electricity British Energy generation Limited great Britain 100 generation and sale of electricity British Energy power and Energy trading Limited great Britain 100 Energy trading British Energy Direct Limited great Britain 100 sale of electricity Eggborough power Limited great Britain 100 generation and sale of electricity A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the Companys next annual return.
British EnErgy group plc 77 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 32.
Share-based Payments Share Incentive Plan under the share incentive plan sip, employees, including the Executive Directors, who are resident in the uK and meet the service requirements, are eligible for awards under the sip.
Awards under the sip are limited each year by relevant tax legislation and for the year ended 31 March 2006 will take the form of free shares.
the value of the annual awards is linked to performance conditions relating to output, EBitDA, as defined in the plan, and safety.
the free shares are initially held in a trust and vest unconditionally for participating employees after being held within the trust for three years contingent upon participants being in continued employment by the group.
Any dividends paid on shares held within the trust are converted into additional shares.
the grant under this scheme, as defined by iFrs 2, occurred during the year ended 31 March 2006. the level of the sip awards for the year ended 31 March 2006 will be based on a cash award of 6m 2005: nil and this cash will be used to purchase shares within 42 days of the announcement of the groups results for the year ended 31 March 2006. therefore at 31 March 2006 no shares have been awarded under this scheme.
the expense recognised for the sip in respect of employee services rendered during the year ended 31 March 2006 is 1m 2005: nil.
Long Term Deferred Bonus Plan the Long term Deferred Bonus plan Lt plan is available to certain Executive Directors and selected senior executives who are eligible to receive conditionally awarded options in shares in the Company at nil cost.
the proportion of these options which may vest is subject to the achievement of performance targets and the share options vest over a three year period from the date of grant.
in the first year of each new award, awards for Executive Directors will comprise a combination of cash and share options and in the second and third years all awards will be entirely comprised of share options.
the grant under this scheme, as defined by iFrs 2, occurred during the year ended 31 March 2006. the level of the Lt plan awards for the year ended 31 March 2006 will be based on a cash award of 3m 2005: nil and the majority of this cash will be used to purchase shares within the 42 day period after the announcement of the groups results for the year ended 31 March 2006. the number of options awarded is calculated by dividing the value of the award, calculated as a proportion of salary, by the average share price of British Energy group plc based on the 60 business days of share trading prior to the award date.
As at the date of this report, the number of options awarded is still to be determined.
the expense recognised for the Lt plan in respect of employee services rendered during the year ended 31 March 2006 is 2m 2005: nil which has been calculated using an expected performance payout of 41%.
Market conditions, as defined by iFrs 2, do not constitute a significant proportion of the fair value of the share options which may be granted.
A number of amendments to the Lt plan were approved by shareholders at the AgM in september 2005. these mainly included new weightings of targets and awards within the three year vesting period.
the modifications to the Lt plan did not result in a significant increment to the level of remuneration granted under the scheme.
British Energy Executive Share Option Plan 2004 the British Energy Executive share option plan 2004 is available to certain full-time directors or qualifying employees.
the following table illustrates the number and the exercise prices of, and movements in, share options under this scheme during the year: Exercise price number granted during the year and outstanding as at 31 March 2006 240,000 5.00 Exercisable as at 31 March 2006 these options were granted on 20 December 2005 and are dependent on performance conditions in relation to the financial year ending 31 March 2008. the performance conditions will be determined by the remuneration Committee at the start of the financial year ending 31 March 2008. subject to these performance conditions the options granted will vest on the third anniversary of the date of the grant, on 20 December 2008.
Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 78 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 32.
Share-based Payments continued Interim Bonus Plan the interim Bonus plan iBp is a deferred bonus scheme which related to the year ended 31 March 2005. the awards were granted to members of the Executive Committee either wholly in shares in the case of Executive Directors or in shares and in cash in the case of Executive Committee members.
the awards were based on a proportion of salary and are payable over a three year period, with one third of the award vesting immediately, one third after one year and the final third after two years.
the following table illustrates the number of, and movements in, share options under this scheme during the year.
the exercise price of these options is nil.
2006 Number granted during the year 124,263 Exercised 22,353 As at 31 March 2006 101,910 Exercisable as at 31 March 2006 101,910 the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 5.10.
Share option schemes granted by British Energy Limited share options were granted in previous years by British Energy Limited.
Legal advice has been obtained to the effect that the changes in the corporate structure of the group as a result of the restructuring did not trigger the early exercise provisions under these options.
the remuneration Committee decided not to allow holders of the options in British Energy Limited to roll them over into options over shares in the Company.
the options granted by British Energy Limited are still capable of exercise, but immediately on exercise the shares will be converted into shares in the Company in the ratio of 50:1.
Accordingly the effective exercise price of the options is significantly higher than the current share price and it is unlikely the options will be exercised.
Non-cash Transactions there were no significant non-cash investing and financing transactions in the year.
the consideration for the purchase of British Energy plc in the prior period on 14 January 2005 comprised shares and Bonds.
Contingent Assets the group has certain contingent assets as a result of its disposal of its 82.4% interest in Bruce power Lp.
in addition to the consideration payable by the consortium under the master purchase agreement, up to a further C$100m was payable to British Energy contingent upon the restart of two of the Bruce A units under a trust agreement the trust Agreement entered into on the same date.
had the first unit restarted by 15 June 2003, C$50m would have been released to British Energy and an additional C$50m would have been released to British Energy had the second unit restarted by 1 August 2003.
An amount of C$5m was to be deducted from the C$50m payable in respect of each unit for its failure to restart by the scheduled restart date or by the first day of each successive calendar month following the scheduled restart date.
the group received C$20m on 22 March 2004 and C$10m on 25 May 2004 in partial consideration under the trust Agreement.
British Energy commenced arbitration proceedings in ontario against the ontario provincial government the province in December 2004 seeking the payment of additional consideration under the trust Agreement on the basis that Bruce A units 3 and 4 restarted earlier than the dates claimed by the province.
no additional amounts appear on the consolidated balance sheet at 31 March 2006 because of uncertainties regarding their realisation.
the amounts recoverable in respect of the restarted units will be substantially lower than the maximum C$100m but the amounts and timing of the payments have still to be confirmed.
Contingent Liabilities on 12 February 2004 British Energy Limited and British Energy international holdings Limited received a notice of warranty claims from the consortium which purchased the groups 82.4% interest in Bruce power Lp alleging breach of certain warranties and representations relating to tax and to the condition of certain plant at the Bruce power station.
the principal tax claim relates to the treatment of expenditure at the Bruce power station during the period of the groups part ownership and is currently being considered by the Canadian tax authorities.
the treatment proposed by the group could result in a rebate of a material amount of tax to the group that has not been recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
the consortium claims that allowance of the expenditure for that period would cause it to lose future deductions.
British Energy international holdings Limited has rejected the tax claim and expects to defend it if it is pursued further.
the group is confident that the amount of the claim should not, in any event, materially exceed the amount of the rebate, and that the tax claim should have no material cash flow impact on the group.
British EnErgy group plc 79 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 35.
Contingent Liabilities continued the claim relating to the condition of the plant is based upon alleged erosion of certain parts of the steam generators, including the support plates, through which boiler tubes pass, which it is alleged resulted in an extended outage of one unit at the plant to carry out repair works and loss of revenues and costs of approximately C$64.5m.
the consortium also claims that the alleged erosion may reduce the operating life of the unit and or result in further repairs involving further losses.
on 10 February 2006, British Energy Limited commenced legal proceedings against ontario power generation opg alleging negligence and or breach of contract by opg in the performance by opg of consultancy services provided by opg to British Energy Limited relating to the steam generators in the period prior to the acquisition of Bruce power by British Energy Limited.
on 10 February 2006, British Energy Limited and British Energy international holdings Limited filed a notice of Action against opg and Bruce power Lp with the ontario superior Court of Justice seeking a contribution and indemnity from opg and Bruce power Lp with respect to any amounts for which British Energy Limited or British Energy international holdings Limited may be found liable as a result of the steam generator claim brought on 12 February 2004 by the consortium which acquired British Energy Limiteds 82.4% interest in the Bruce power plant.
under the agreement with the consortium C$20m is retained in trust to meet any representation and warranty claims, and this may be retained pending agreement or determination of the claims.
the group has given certain indemnities and guarantees in respect of its subsidiary undertakings.
no losses are anticipated to arise under these indemnities and guarantees, provided relevant subsidiary undertakings continue on a going concern basis.
the group is involved in a number of other claims and disputes arising in the normal course of business which are not expected to have a material effect on the groups financial position.
Financial Commitments i Capital Commitments 2006 2005 m m Capital expenditure contracted but not provided: property, plant and equipment 39 16 intangible assets 81 2 Total capital commitments 120 18 ii Operating Lease Commitments At the balance sheet date, the group has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, in relation to the leasing of computer equipment, which fall due as follows: 2006 2005 m m Within one year 3 3 in the second to fifth years inclusive 7 10 iii Other Contractual Commitments under contractual arrangements, the group has the following nuclear fuel commitments at 31 March 2006: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total m m m m m m m Commitments to purchase in the year 219 130 120 123 122 928 1,642 At 31 March 2006, the estimated minimum commitment for the supply of coal was 4m tonnes 2005: 4m tonnes, which, at contract prices on 31 March 2006, equates to approximately 142m 2005: 162m.
in addition to the liabilities and provisions recognised and described in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the group has provided certain guarantees and commitments in respect of the extent of capital expenditure by Eggborough power Limited.
the group also enters into commitments to purchase and sell electricity in the normal course of business.
the group has a commitment to make the Cash sweep payment as described in note 2 ix.
therefore, it is only recognised and provided for when it becomes determinable.
Job: 7005 BE AR06 Back 1. indd Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 03 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 80 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 37.
Related Parties the Company is a public limited company owned by our shareholders and operates within an extensive contractual framework established as part of the restructuring.
the most significant contract, in terms of the limitations it places on the business, is the Contribution Agreement between the secretary of state and the Company.
Within this contractual framework, the Company is managed independently by the Board, which continues to direct the finances and operating policies of the group and is subject to the normal private sector disciplines, fiduciary duties and Companies Act requirements.
the Company considers that no party is a controlling party under the terms of iAs 24 related party Disclosures.
the following transactions were carried out with related parties: i Entities with Significant Influence over the Group the group considers her Majestys government hMg to be a related party due to the significant influence exercised by hMg following the groups restructuring.
the following transactions took place during the year with hMg and sponsored bodies under its control: hMg meets the groups historic contracted nuclear liabilities to BnFL, a government controlled body.
the nuclear liabilities receivable is recognised on the consolidated balance sheet in relation to these liabilities and decreased from 2,312m at 31 March 2005 to 2,245m at 31 March 2006. the group made fixed decommissioning funding contributions to the nLF of 21m 2005: 5m and a payment of 6m 2005: nil in respect of pWr fuel loaded into sizewell B reactor during the year.
the group made payments to BnFL of 350m 2005: 77m during the year in respect of front and back end fuel costs.
in addition, under the government indemnity in respect of historic nuclear liabilities, consideration of 189m 2005: 184m was passed to BnFL in the year.
the group incurred interest costs of nil 2005: 1m in respect of deferred payments and stock financing.
the balance outstanding due to BnFL at the end of the year was 26m 2005: nil.
Amounts due from the group to BnFL at 31 March 2006 under the historic Liability Funding Agreement amounted to 2,245m 2005: 2,312m.
the group is required to make Cash sweep payments to the nLF depending on certain criteria being met.
see note 8 for further details.
the group has also entered into a number of material transactions in its normal course of business with other sponsored bodies and departments of hMg including hM revenue and Customs and the uK Atomic Energy Authority.
ii Key Management Personnel the group has identified certain transactions with Directors that require to be disclosed as related party transactions.
A payroll systems error was identified and subsequently rectified during the period ended 31 March 2005.
As a result of this error, personal retirement benefit contributions were not deducted in full from the salary of some higher paid employees.
Following detailed investigation, the individuals concerned, including two former Directors of the Company, Mike Alexander and David gilchrist, who were not Directors of the Company during the year ended 31 March 2006, were granted up until 31 March 2008 by the Companys remuneration Committee to repay the salary overpayments of 26,820 and 15,483 respectively.
After further consideration, the Company recognised that this extended time period might constitute a breach of section 330 of the Companies Act 1985 and, requested that all outstanding amounts be repaid.
Mike Alexander and David gilchrist had repaid the full amounts overpaid by 30 september 2005 and 31 March 2005 respectively.
the compensation of key management personnel is set out in note 7.
Transition to International Financial Reporting Standards i Transitional Arrangements and Early Adoption the group has adopted iFrs with effect from 1 April 2005 for reporting its consolidated financial results and consolidated financial position.
Accordingly, these are the first annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with iFrs.
the transition date to iFrs was the Companys date of incorporation, 2 July 2004, however, because the Company did not trade until the group was acquired at rED, the transition date was effectively 14 January 2005. the group has early adopted the revised iAs 19 and continues to recognise actuarial gains and losses directly in equity in the period in which they arise.
British EnErgy group plc 81 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 38.
Transition to International Financial Reporting Standards continued ii reconciliation of Profit under UK GAAP to Profit under IfrS 2 July 2004 to 31 March 2005 m profit for the period under uK gAAp 35 Adjustments to conform to iFrs: reversal of goodwill amortisation 6 Profit for the period under IFRS 41 the profit represents the results from the acquired business from 15 January 2005 to 31 March 2005. iii reconciliation of Equity under UK GAAP to Equity under IfrS 31 March 14 January 2005 2005 m m total equity under uK gAAp 1,615 1,526 Adjustments to conform to iFrs: increase in carrying value of goodwill 29 23 increase in retirement benefit obligations 33 34 increase in deferred tax asset in relation to retirement benefit obligations 10 11 increase in property, plant and equipment 31 31 Decrease in deferred tax asset in relation to property, plant and equipment 31 31 Total equity under IFRS 1,621 1,526 iv Effects of the Transition to IfrS on Accounting Policies Goodwill iFrs 3 requires that goodwill is not amortised but instead is tested for impairment at least annually and at other balance sheet dates if there is any indication of impairment.
the goodwill that arose on acquisition at rED was being amortised in line with the remaining operating lives of the stations under uK gAAp, and therefore on adoption of iFrs this amortisation has been reversed.
in addition, goodwill has been adjusted on transition to iFrs as a result of changes in the assessment of the fair values of the retirement benefit obligations and deferred tax assets.
Employee Benefits Defined Benefit Pension Schemes the group has early adopted the revised iAs 19. the group has not adopted the corridor approach and continues to recognise all actuarial gains and losses immediately in equity, in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
under iAs 19, the valuation of plan assets is based on bid price valuations, compared to mid-market prices under uK gAAp, and the required reserve to cover the cost of paying out death in service benefits is accrued over the period to the actuarially estimated date of death in service rather than to normal retirement date, resulting in a higher reserve than the uK gAAp equivalent.
Taxation iAs 12 income taxes requires deferred tax to be provided on all temporary differences between the book carrying values of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their related tax bases, whereas under uK gAAp deferred tax was only provided based on timing differences between the accounting and taxable profits.
on transition to iFrs, the groups deferred tax asset decreased as a result of an additional deferred tax liability arising from revaluation of the Eggborough power station, partially offset by an increase in the deferred tax asset attributable to the change in the retirement benefit obligations.
v Effects of IfrS on the Presentation of financial Statements the following impacts of transition to iFrs affect the presentation of the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet but do not impact profit or equity.
British EnErgy group plc 82 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 notes to the Consolidated Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 38.
Transition to International Financial Reporting Standards continued Energy Purchases purchase of power to obtain roCs and LECs, and certain other energy purchase contracts have been reclassified from revenue to energy purchases in the consolidated income statement.
roCs and LECs were classified on the consolidated balance sheet as trade debtors under uK gAAp and have been reclassified to intangible assets on conversion to iFrs.
Software Depreciation relating to capitalised software has been reclassified as amortisation of intangible assets.
on transition to iFrs, software, which was classified as tangible fixed assets under uK gAAp, has been reclassified as intangible assets.
Non-current Assets under iFrs, the nLF and nuclear liabilities receivables and deferred tax asset are shown on the face of the consolidated balance sheet within noncurrent assets.
in the uK gAAp consolidated balance sheet they were included within current assets as required by the Companies Act 1985 and were described as debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year.
Cash reclassifications between the uK gAAp cash and liquid investment categories have been made in accordance with the iFrs definitions of cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash.
Provisions provisions expected to be settled within one year of the balance sheet date are classified as current liabilities in line with iAs 1 presentation of Financial statements requirements.
Retirement Benefit Obligations iAs 19 requires retirement benefit obligations to be shown on the face of the consolidated balance sheet and exclusive of any deferred tax impact, whereas under uK gAAp the retirement benefit liability was presented net of deferred tax.
vi IfrS 1 Exemptions and Elections Financial Instruments the restatement of results for the period ended 31 March 2005 under iFrs does not incorporate the impact of iAs 32 and iAs 39 as permitted by iFrs 1. these standards have been applied from 1 April 2005 see note 16. vii Cash flow the change in presentation of the consolidated statement of cash flows under iFrs compared to uK gAAp does not change the cash flow generated by the group.
other than the inclusion of the change in restricted cash and the payment and receipt of interest, the cash flow generated from operations is the same under iFrs as under uK gAAp.
