SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Share information Our sole outstanding class of voting securities is ordinary shares with a nominal value of 50p.
Our ordinary shares are admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange and our ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The principal trading market for our ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange.
The Bank of New York is the depositary of the American Depositary Receipts, which evidence the ADSs.
Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone 0870 195 6600 Overseas 44 121 415 7567 ADR depositary The Bank of New York Investor Services P. O.
Box 11258 Church Street Station New York, NY 10286-1258 Telephone US 1-888-BNY-ADRS Telephone International 1 212 815-3700 www.
com Shares on-line Lloyds TSB Registrars provide a range of shareholder information on-line.
Shareholders can access their shareholdings and find advice on transferring shares and updating their details at www.
ShareGift Shareholders who only have a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, the independent charity share donation scheme registered charity no.
Further information about ShareGift may be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars or from ShareGift on 020 7337 0501 or at www.
There are no implications for capital gains tax purposes no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to claim income tax relief.
Shareholder enquiries All administrative enquiries relating to shareholders, such as notification of change of address or the loss of a share certificate, should be made to the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, whose address is given above.
Dividends Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into a UK bank or building society account with the tax voucher sent direct to their registered address.
Please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars for a dividend mandate form.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP which enables shareholders to buy the Companys shares on the London stock market with their cash dividend.
Further information about the DRIP is available from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
The helpline number is 0870 241 3018 from inside the UK and 44 121 415 7173 from overseas.
160 Share price information The Companys share price can be found on the Companys corporate website at www.
com corporate and is broadcast on SkyText on the Sky News channel on page 145, BBC Ceefax page 221 and on Channel 4 Teletext page 520, all under the prefix BSkyB.
It also appears in the financial columns of the national press.
ADS holders can access the latest ADS price at www.
com or by visiting the Bank of New Yorks website, www.
The following tables set forth for the periods indicated the highest and lowest middle market quotations for the ordinary shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange and the highest and lowest sales prices of the ADSs as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape.
Prior year ADS figures in the above tables have been restated to reflect this change in ratio.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 161 Principal shareholders The following table sets forth, as of 27 July 2006, the amount and percentage of ordinary shares owned by each shareholder, including our Directors and Officers as a group, known to us to own more than 3% directly and indirectly of our ordinary shares.
Percent Identity of Person or Group Amount Owned of Class News UK Nominees Limited 1 686,021,700 38.36% Franklin Resources, Inc. and its affiliates 179,614,830 10.00% Janus Capital Management LLC 69,778,828 3.86% Barclays PLC 68,971,130 3.85% Brandes Investment Partners L. P. 56,867,820 3.12% The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 55,977,854 3.10% FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited Fidelity 54,943,657 3.06% Harris Associates L. P. 54,839,000 3.03% 1 On 30 June 2004, BSkyB Holdco, Inc. transferred its entire shareholding in us to News UK Nominees Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of News Corporation which remains interested in the shares.
There has been no significant change in the percentage ownership held by any major shareholders during the past three years, except for the following: On 16 February 2005, News Corporation notified us that its interest in our shares had increased to 36.01%.
On 13 September 2005, News Corporation further notified us that its interest in our shares had increased to 37.00%.
On 12 May 2006 News Corporation further notified us that its interest in our shares had increased to 38.02%.
These increases were as a result of the Companys share buy-back programme: the number of shares held by News Corporation remains unchanged.
Franklin Resources, Inc. notified us of the following changes in its interest in our shares: Percentage Date Notified Ownership 9 August 2004 3.58% 12 August 2004 4.08% 15 September 2004 5.05% 15 November 2004 6.00% 3 May 2005 7.06% 9 June 2005 8.03% 11 July 2006 9.01% 2 February 2006 10.09% 23 May 2006 9.98% 21 June 2006 10.00% On 11 August 2004, Janus Capital Management LLC Janus notified us that it had a 3.01% interest in our shares.
On 11 October 2004, Janus further notified us that its interest in our shares had increased to 4.08%.
On 19 April 2006 Janus further notified us that its interest in our shares had decreased to 3.86%.
On 6 June 2005, Barclays PLC notified us that it had a 3.38% interest in our shares.
On 2 August 2005, Barclays PLC further notified us that its interest in our shares had increased to 4.15%.
On 29 June 2006, Barclays PLC further notified us that its interest in our shares had decreased to 3.85%.
On 2 February 2006 Brandes Investment Partners L. P. notified us that it had a 3.12% interest in our shares.
On 6 April 2006 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. notified us that it had a 3.10% interest in our shares.
On 16 February 2004, Fidelity notified us that it had a 3.10% interest in our shares.
On 28 June 2004, Fidelity notified us that it no longer had a notifiable interest in our shares.
On 26 June 2006, Fidelity notified us that it had a 3.06% interest in our shares.
On 4 May 2006 Harris Associates L. P. notified us that it had a 3.03% interest in our shares.
Major shareholders have the same voting rights as all other shareholders.
A voting agreement dated 21 September 2005 was entered into between the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc, News Corporation and News UK Nominees Limited which became unconditional on 4 November 2005 and caps News UK Nominees Limited voting rights at any general meeting at 37.19%.
The provisions of the voting agreement cease to apply on the first to 162 occur of a number of circumstances which include the date on which a general offer is made by an independent person as defined in the voting agreement for the ordinary share capital of the Company.
On 25 July 2006, 8,847,830 ADSs were held of record by 18 holders in the US and 30,209 ordinary shares were held of record by 67 US persons.
Financial calendar Results for the financial year ending 30 June 2007 will be published: Q1 November 2006 Q2 February 2007 Q3 May 2007 Q4 August 2007 Companys registered office: Grant Way Isleworth Middlesex TW7 5QD Telephone 0870 240 3000 The Sky website The Sky website at www.
com details the Companys product offering and provides a link to the Companys Corporate website where investor and media information can be accessed.
Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP Hill House 1 Little New Street London EC4A 3TR Principal bankers Royal Bank of Scotland St. Andrews Square Edinburgh EH2 2YB Solicitors Herbert Smith LLP Exchange House Primrose Street London EC2A 2HS Company registration number 2247735 Exchange rates A significant portion of our liabilities and expenses associated with the cost of programming acquired from US film licensors is denominated in US dollars.
For a discussion of the impact of exchange rate movements on our financial condition and results of operations, see note 22 of the consolidated financial statements Derivatives and other financial instruments.
Since any dividends we declare are declared in pounds sterling, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the US dollar equivalent of cash dividends receivable by holders of ADSs.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 163 The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, information concerning the noon buying rates provided by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for pounds sterling expressed in US dollars per 1.00.
Memorandum and articles of association The Memorandum of Association of the Company provides that the Companys principal object is to carry on the business of direct broadcasting by satellite and to carry out the other objects more particularly set out in Clause 4 of the Memorandum of Association of the Company.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company are registered at Companies House, Crown Way, Maindy, Cardiff, CF14 3UZ, Wales under company number 2247735.
The current Articles of Association Articles of the Company, contain, inter alia, provisions to the following effect: Directors material interests Subject to the Companies Act 1985 and any statutory amendment, modification or re-enactment of it for the time being in force the Act, and provided the Director has disclosed to the other Directors the nature and extent of his material interest, a Director may be party to or in any way interested in any arrangement or transaction with the Company or in which the Company is in any way interested and he may hold and be remunerated in respect of any office or place of profit of the Company or any other company in which the Company is in any way interested and he or any firm of which he is a member may act in a professional capacity for the Company or any such other body and be remunerated therefore and, in any such case as aforesaid save as otherwise agreed by him, he may retain for his own absolute use and benefit all profits and advantages accruing to him thereunder or in consequence thereof.
Save as otherwise provided in the Articles, a Director shall be prohibited from voting at a meeting of the Directors on material matters in which he has directly or indirectly a material interest other than an interest in shares, debentures or other securities of, or otherwise in or through the Company.
A Director shall not be counted in the quorum at a meeting in relation to any resolution on which he is not entitled to vote.
Subject to the provisions of the Act and every other statute for the time being in force concerning companies and affecting the Company the Statutes, a Director shall be entitled to vote and be counted in the quorum in respect of any resolution at a meeting of the Directors concerning any of the following matters: i the giving of any guarantee, security or indemnity to him in respect of money lent to, or obligations incurred by him at the request of, or for the benefit of, the Company or any of its subsidiaries: ii the giving of any guarantee, security or indemnity to a third party in respect of a debt or obligation of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for which he himself has assumed responsibility in whole or in part under a guarantee or indemnity or by the giving of security: iii any proposal concerning an offer of any shares or debentures or other securities of or by the Company for subscription, purchase or exchange in which offer he is, or is to be, interested as a participant in the underwriting or sub-underwriting thereof: iv any proposal concerning a superannuation fund or retirement benefits scheme which has been approved by, or is subject to, and conditional upon approval by the Board of the HMRC for taxation purposes: 164 v any arrangement for the benefit of employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries including but not limited to, an employees share scheme which has been approved by, or is subject to and conditional upon approval by, the Board of the HMRC for taxation purposes and which does not accord to any Directors any privilege not accorded to the employees to whom the arrangement relates: and vi any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of insurance for the benefit of Directors or persons who include Directors.
The Articles also specifically provide that a Director is to be treated as interested in a matter the subject of a resolution if it relates to a transaction or arrangement with a person or body corporate of or in which he is an officer, employee, shareholder, consultant, advisor, representative or otherwise interested.
Any question as to the right of a Director to vote, including whether he has a material interest in a material matter the subject of a resolution, may be decided by a resolution of the majority of those Directors who do not have a like interest to the Director or Directors in question.
The quorum for meetings of the Directors is currently three Directors.
Directors compensation The ordinary remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors shall not in aggregate exceed 750,000 per annum or such higher amount as may from time to time be determined by ordinary resolution of the Company.
Such remuneration shall be divisible among the Directors as they may agree or, failing agreement, equally, except that any Directors who shall hold office for only part of the period in respect of which such remuneration is payable shall be entitled only to rank in such division for a proportion of remuneration related to the period during which he has held office.
Under the current Articles, the Directors may also be paid all expenses properly incurred by them in attending meetings of the Directors or any committee of the Directors or general meetings of the Company or otherwise in connection with the discharge of their duties as Directors.
Any Director who holds any executive office or who serves on any committee of the Directors, or who otherwise performs services which in the opinion of the Directors are outside the scope of the ordinary duties of a Director, may be paid such extra remuneration by way of bonus, commission or otherwise, as the Directors may determine.
The Directors have the power to provide benefits whether by payment of gratuities, pensions or otherwise to or to any person in respect of any Directors or ex-Directors and for the purpose of providing any such benefits, to contribute to any scheme or fund or to pay premiums.
The Directors may purchase and maintain insurance for, or for the benefit of, any persons who are or were Directors, Officers, employees of the Company or an associated company or who are or were trustees of any pension fund in which employees of the Company or any such other associated company are interested.
The Directors may, from time to time, appoint one or more of their number to any executive office on such terms and for such periods as they may subject to the provisions of the Statutes determine.
Borrowing powers The Directors shall restrict the borrowings of the Company and exercise all powers of control exercisable by the Company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to secure as regards subsidiary undertakings so far as by such exercise they can secure that the aggregate principal amount outstanding of all money borrowed by the Group excluding amounts borrowed by any member of the Group from any other member of the Group, shall not at any time, save with the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company, exceed an amount equal to the higher of i 1.5 billion and ii an amount equal to four times the aggregate turnover of the Group as shown in the then latest audited consolidated profit and loss accounts of the Group.
No age disqualification for Directors No person shall be disqualified from being appointed or re-appointed as a Director and no Director shall be requested to vacate that office by reason of his attaining the age of seventy or any other age.
No share qualification for Directors Directors shall not be required to hold any shares in the Company by way of qualification.
A Director who is not a member shall nevertheless be entitled to attend and speak at any general meeting.
Dividends Subject to the Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends to be paid to members of the Company according to their rights, but no such dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
If, in the opinion of the Directors, the profits of the Company available for distribution justify such payments, the Directors may, from time to time, pay interim dividends on the shares of such amounts and on such dates and in respect of such periods as they think fit.
The profits of the Company available for distribution and resolved to be distributed shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on the shares during any portion of the period in respect of which the dividend is paid.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 165 No dividend shall be paid otherwise than out of profits available for distribution under the provisions of the Statutes.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of twelve years from the date of declaration of such dividend shall be forfeited and shall revert to the Company.
Directors appointment and removal The Directors and the Company by Ordinary Resolution may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
A Director appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next AGM and will put himself forward to be elected by the shareholders.
At each AGM, there shall retire from office by rotation: i all Directors of the Company who are subject to retirement by rotation who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire by rotation at either of them: and ii such additional number of Directors as shall, when aggregated with the number of Directors retiring under paragraph i above, equal either one third of the number of Directors, in circumstances where the number of Directors is three or a multiple of three, or in all other circumstances, the whole number which is nearest to but does not exceed one-third of the number of Directors the Relevant Proportion provided that: a the provisions of this paragraph ii shall only apply if the number of Directors retiring under paragraph i above is less than the Relevant Proportion: and b subject to the provisions of the Act and to the relevant provisions of these Articles, the Directors to retire under this paragraph ii shall be those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment, but as between persons who became or were last reappointed Directors on the same day those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
Winding-up If the Company commences liquidation, the liquidator may, with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution of the Company and any other sanction required by the Act and the Insolvency Act 1986: i divide among the members in kind the whole or any part of the assets of the Company whether they shall consist of property of the same kind or not and, for that purpose, set such values as he deems fair upon any property to be divided and determine how the division shall be carried out between the members: and ii vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of members as the liquidator shall think fit, but no member shall be compelled to accept any share or other assets upon which there is any liability.
Redemption None of the shares of the Company has been issued on the basis that it may be redeemed or is liable to be redeemed at the option of the shareholders or the Company.
The Company is therefore under no obligation to create a sinking fund or redemption reserve.
However, subject to the provisions of the Statutes, the Company may purchase any of its own shares including any redeemable shares.
Further capital calls The Directors may only make calls upon the members in respect of amounts unpaid on the shares whether in respect of nominal value or premium.
Variation of rights Subject to the Act, the rights attached to any class of shares may unless otherwise provided by the terms of the issue of shares of that class be varied with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class but not otherwise and may be so varied either whilst the Company is a going concern or during, or in contemplation of, a winding-up.
At every such separate general meeting the necessary quorum shall be at least two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class but so that at any adjourned meeting any holder of shares of the class present in person or by proxy shall be a quorum.
General meetings The Directors may call general meetings whenever and at whatever time and location they so determine.
At a general meeting called to pass a special resolution at least 21 clear days notice must be given, and all other extraordinary general meetings shall be called by at least 14 clear days notice.
Two persons entitled to vote upon the business to be transacted shall be a quorum.
166 Subject to any terms as to voting upon which any shares may be issued and to the provisions of the Articles, every member present in person shall have one vote on a show of hands and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for each share of which he is the holder.
No member shall be entitled to vote in respect of any share held by him if any call or other sum payable by him to the Company remains unpaid.
If a member or any person appearing to be interested in shares has been duly served with a notice under Section 212 of the Act and is in default for the prescribed period in supplying to the Company information thereby required, unless the Directors otherwise determine, the member shall not be entitled to vote at any general or class meeting of the Company in respect of the shares in relation to which the default occurred.
Limitations on non-resident or foreign shareholders English law and the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company treat those persons who hold shares and are neither UK residents nor nationals in the same way as UK residents or nationals.
They are free to own, vote on and transfer any shares they hold.
Transfer of shares Any member may transfer all or any of his shares by instrument of transfer in the usual common form or in any other form which the Directors may approve.
The instrument of transfer of a share shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, except in the case of fully-paid shares, by or on behalf of the transferee.
Where any class of shares is for the time being a participating security, title to shares of that class which are recorded as being held in uncertificated form, may be transferred by the relevant system concerned.
The Directors may in their absolute discretion and without giving any reason refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of shares unless the instrument of transfer: i is lodged at the transfer office accompanied by the relevant share certificate s : ii is in respect of only one class of share: and iii is in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
The Directors of the Company may refuse to register the transfer of a share in uncertificated form to a person who is to hold it thereafter in certificated form in any case where the Company is entitled to refuse or is excepted from the requirements under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer: and they may refuse to register any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer if it is their opinion that such transfer would or might i prejudice the Groups right to hold, be awarded or granted or have renewed or extended, any licence granted under the Broadcasting Acts, or ii give rise to or cause a variation to be made to, or a revocation or determination of, any such licence by Ofcom.
If the Directors determine following registration of a transfer of shares: i and following consultation with Ofcom that, inter alia, by reason of the interest of a person in any shares of the Company transferred, Ofcom may vary, revoke, determine or refuse to award, grant, renew or extend a licence granted under the Broadcasting Acts: or ii that any person has an interest in the shares of the Company which, inter alia, makes the Company a disqualified person under the Broadcasting Acts or which contravenes, or would cause a contravention of, any of the restrictions set out in Parts III, IV or V of Schedule 2 to the Broadcasting Act 1990 or any order, direction or notice made pursuant to the Broadcasting Acts or such other restrictions as may be applied by Ofcom from time to time to disqualify certain persons or bodies from having interests in such a licence or to restrict the accumulation of interests in relevant services as defined in Schedule 2 to the Broadcasting Act 1990: the Directors shall be entitled to serve written notice a Disposal Notice on the relevant transferee in respect of the shares transferred stating that they have so determined, specifying their grounds in general terms and calling for the disposal of such transferred shares as are specified in the Disposal Notice within 21 days of the date of such notice or such longer period as the Directors may consider reasonable and which they may extend.
If the Disposal Notice is not complied with to the satisfaction of the Directors, they shall, so far as they are able, dispose of the relevant shares for the best price reasonably obtainable in all the circumstances.
In addition, a member who has been served with a Disposal Notice shall not, with effect from the expiration of such period as the Directors shall specify in such notice not being longer than 30 days from the date of service of the notice, be entitled to receive notice of, or to attend or vote at, any general meeting of the Company by reason of his holding the shares specified in the Disposal Notice.
Untraced shareholders The Company shall be entitled to sell, at the best price reasonably obtainable, the shares of a member or the shares to which a person is entitled by transmission if, during a period of twelve years, no cheque for amounts payable in respect of the share has been cashed and no communication has BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 167 been received by the Company from the member or the person entitled by transmission and at least three dividends have been paid in relation to such shares during those twelve years and no such dividend has been claimed and, within a further period of three months from the date of advertisements giving notice of its intention to sell such shares placed after the expiry of the period of twelve years, the Company has not received any communication from the member or the person entitled by transmission and notice has been given by the Company to the London Stock Exchange of its intention to make such sale.
The Company shall be obligated to account to the former member or person entitled by transmission for the net proceeds of the sale of such shares but no trust shall be created in respect of the debt and no interest shall be payable in respect of the same and the Company shall not be required to account for any money earned on the net proceeds.
Alteration of share capital The authorised share capital of the Company currently consists of 3,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 50p each.
The Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution: i increase its share capital by such sum to be divided into shares of such amounts as the resolution shall prescribe: ii consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of larger amount than its existing shares: iii cancel any shares which, at the date of the passing of the resolution, have not been taken, or agreed to be taken, by any person and diminish the amount of its capital by the amount of the shares so cancelled: or iv sub-divide its shares, or any of them, into shares of smaller amount than is fixed by the Memorandum of Association subject, nevertheless, to the provisions of the Statutes.
Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may reduce its share capital redemption reserve, share premium account or other undistributable reserve in any way.
At the AGM of the Company held on 14 November 2003, shareholders approved a special resolution authorising the Directors to reduce the Companys share premium account by 1,120 million.
In addition to the approval of the reduction by shareholders, the Company required the approval of the High Court, which was granted on 10 December 2003.
The reduction became effective on 11 December 2003.
At the AGM of the Company held on 12 November 2004, shareholders approved a special resolution allowing the Company to buy-back up to 97,000,000 ordinary shares in the market, which was approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital at 1 October 2004.
The authority expired on 11 November 2005, 12 months from the date of the passing of the special resolution.
Buy-backs are by market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
Any shares purchased are cancelled thereby reducing the number of shares in issue.
Under this authority the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 97,000,000 ordinary shares of 50p each for a consideration of 544 million.
At the AGM held on 12 November 2004, shareholders approved an ordinary resolution in relation to Rule 9 of the City Code of Takeovers and Mergers the City Code which waived the compulsory bid obligation that arises for News UK Nominees Limited when the Company repurchases shares under the authority granted by the special resolution detailed above.
Under Rule 9 of the City Code, any person who acquires shares which, taken together with the shares already held by him or acquired by persons acting in concert with him, carry 30% or more of the voting rights in a company which is subject to the City Code is normally required to make a general offer to all of the remaining shareholders to acquire their shares.
Similarly, when any person or persons acting in concert already hold 30% or more but less than 50% of the voting rights in such a company, a general offer will normally be required to be made if any further shares are acquired.
An offer under Rule 9 must be in cash at the highest price paid within the preceding 12 months for any shares acquired in the Company by the person required to make the offer or any person acting in concert with him.
The holding of News UK Nominees Limited as at the date of the AGM was 686,021,700 ordinary shares, representing 35.33% of the voting rights in the Company.
If the compulsory bid obligation under Rule 9 had not been waived and the Company had repurchased shares under the authority granted by the special resolution detailed above and, at the time, the voting rights attributable to the aggregate holding of News UK Nominees Limited had continued to exceed 30% of the voting rights of the Company or, if, in the meantime, its holding had fallen below this level and, as a result had increased to 30% or more of such voting rights, News UK Nominees Limited would have been required to make a cash offer for the issued shares of the Company which it did not already own.
The Panel agreed to waive the compulsory bid obligation arising in respect of a repurchase by the Company of its shares subject to approval of the ordinary resolution on a poll, subsequently received at the AGM, from shareholders independent of News UK Nominees Limited.
The waiver in this ordinary resolution, which is valid only for so long as the authority granted pursuant to the special resolution detailed above remains in force, applies only in respect of increases in the percentage interest of News UK Nominees Limited resulting from market purchases by the Company of its own shares and not in respect of other increases in its holding.
The authority granted by the special resolution detailed above has been exercised in full and the holdings of News UK Nominees Limited and the percentage of the voting rights in the Company attributable to such holdings, following the exercise of the authority increased from 35.33% to 37.19% of the Companys issued share capital.
At the AGM of the Company held on 4 November 2005, shareholders approved a special resolution that extended the buy-back authority for a further year, allowing the Company to buy-back up to 92,000,000 ordinary shares in the market, which was approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at 27 September 2005.
Shareholders also approved an ordinary resolution in relation to Rule 9 of the City Code, explained above, which 168 waived the compulsory bid obligation whilst the buy-back authority remains in force.
In addition, in pursuing a continued buy-back authority, the Board considered that it was appropriate that the Company conditionally entered into a voting agreement with News UK Nominees Limited, dated 21 September 2005, which would limit the exercise of its voting rights to 37.19%.
The voting agreement was conditional on the buy-back proposals being approved by shareholders and therefore became unconditional on 4 November 2005.
As at 27 July 2006, the Company had purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 53,765,000 ordinary shares of 50p each under this authority for a consideration of 278 million.
Issue of shares Subject to the provisions of the Statutes relating to authority, pre-emption rights and otherwise and of any resolution of the Company passed in general meeting, all unissued shares shall be at the disposal of the Directors and they may allot with or without conferring a right to renunciation, grant options over, or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms as they think proper.
Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares There are no provisions in the Articles whereby persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the Companys shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership percentage, although there are such requirements under the Companies Act.
The basic disclosure requirement under Sections 198 to 211 of the Companies Act imposes upon a person interested in the shares of the Company a statutory obligation to notify the Company in writing and containing details set out in the Companies Act where: i he acquires or becomes aware that he has acquired or ceases to have or becomes aware that he has ceased to have an interest in shares comprising any class of the Companys issued and voting share capital: and ii as a result, either he obtains, or ceases to have: a a material interest in 3%, or more: or b an aggregate interest whether material or not in 10%, or more of the Companys voting capital: or c the percentage of his interest in the Companys voting capital remains above the relevant level and changes by a whole percentage point.
A material interest means, broadly, any beneficial interest including those of a spouse or a child or a step-child, those of a company which is accustomed to act in accordance with the relevant persons instructions or in which one third or more of the votes are controlled by such person and certain other interests set out in the Companies Act other than those of an investment manager or an operator of a unit trust recognised scheme collective investment scheme open-ended investment company.
Sections 204 to 206 of the Companies Act set out particular rules of disclosure where two or more parties each a concert party have entered into an agreement to acquire interests in shares of a public company, and the agreement imposes obligations restrictions on any concert party with respect to the use, retention or disposal of the shares in the Company and an acquisition of shares by a concert party pursuant to the agreement has taken place.
Under Section 212 of the Companies Act, the Company may by notice in writing require a person that the Company knows or has reasonable cause to believe is or was during the preceding three years interested in the Companys shares to indicate whether or not that is correct and, if that person does or did hold an interest in the Companys shares, to provide certain information as set out in the Companies Act.
Sections 324 to 329 of the Companies Act further deal with the disclosure by persons and certain members of their families of interests in shares or debentures of the companies of which they are directors and certain associated companies.
There are additional disclosure obligations under Rule 3 of the Substantial Acquisitions Rules where a person acquires 15% or more of the voting rights of a listed company or when an acquisition increases his holding of shares or rights over shares so as to increase his voting rights beyond that level by a whole percentage point.
Notification in this case should be to the Company, the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and the UK Listing Authority through one of its approved regulatory information services no later than twelve noon on the business day following the date of the acquisition.
The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also contains strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also to their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
Except where otherwise expressly stated, a reference in the Articles to any statute or provision of a statute includes a reference to any statutory amendment, modification or re-enactment of it for the time being in force.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 169 Exchange controls There are no UK government laws, decrees, regulations or other legislation which restrict or which may affect the import or export of capital, including the availability of cash and cash equivalents for use by us or the remittance of dividends, interest and other payments to non-resident holders of our securities, except as otherwise described in the Memorandum and Articles of Association Dividends section above, and the Taxation section below.
Under English law and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, persons who are neither residents nor nationals of the UK may freely hold, vote and transfer ordinary shares in the same manner as UK residents or nationals.
Taxation This section summarises basic UK and US tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of shares and ADSs by a US Holder.
For purposes of this summary, a US Holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs who is i an individual who is a citizen or resident of the US for US income tax purposes, ii a corporation organised under the laws of the US or any state thereof or the District of Columbia, iii a domestic partnership, iv an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or v a trust if a court within the US is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more US persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
However, in the case of a partnership, estate or trust, this discussion applies only to the extent such entitys income is taxed to the entity or its partners or beneficiaries on a net income basis under US tax law.
This summary is based i upon current UK law and UK HMRC practice, ii upon the US Internal Revenue Code, Treasury Regulations, cases and Internal Revenue Service rulings, all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect, iii upon the UK-US Income Tax Convention currently in effect the Treaty, and iv in part upon representations of the Depositary and assumes that each obligation provided for in or otherwise contemplated by the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with their respective terms.
The summary of UK tax consequences relates to the material aspects of the UK taxation position of US Holders and does not address the tax consequences to a US Holder i that is resident or, in the case of an individual, ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax purposes, ii whose holding of shares or ADSs is effectively connected with a permanent establishment in the UK through which such US Holder carries on business activities or, in the case of an individual who performs independent personal services, with a fixed base situated therein, or iii that is a corporation which alone or together with one or more associated companies, controls directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of the Company.
The discussion set forth below is only a general summary and does not purport to be a technical analysis nor a description of all possible tax consequences.
The summary of US tax consequences may not completely or accurately describe tax consequences to all US Holders.
For example, special rules may apply to US Holders of stock representing 10% or more of the total combined voting power of the Company, US expatriates, insurance companies, tax-exempt organisations, banks and other financial institutions, persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, securities broker-dealers, traders in securities that elect to mark-to-market, and persons holding their shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, hedging or conversion transaction, among others.
Tax consequences to each US Holder will depend upon the particular facts and circumstances of each such holder.
Accordingly, each person should consult with his own professional advisor with respect to the tax consequences of his ownership and disposition of shares or ADSs.
This summary does not discuss any tax rules other than UK tax and US federal income tax rules.
The UK and US tax authorities and courts are not bound by this summary and may disagree with its conclusions.
US Holders of ADSs will be treated as owners of the shares underlying the ADSs.
Accordingly, except as noted, the UK and US tax consequences discussed below apply equally to US Holders of ADSs and shares.
Taxation of distributions Under current UK taxation legislation, no tax is withheld from dividend payments by the Company and generally no UK tax is payable by US Holders who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK on dividends declared on the shares.
US Holders who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK with no other source of UK income are not required to file a UK income tax return.
For US federal income tax purposes, the gross amount of any distribution made by the Company to a US Holder with respect to any shares or ADSs held by the US Holder generally will be includable in the income of the US Holder as dividend income to the extent that such distribution is paid out of the Companys current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined under US federal income tax principles subject to the discussion below under US passive foreign investment company rules.
Dividends will generally constitute foreign source passive income for foreign tax credit purposes.
The dividend income generally will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction allowed to corporations.
If the amount of any distribution exceeds the Companys current and accumulated earnings and profits as so computed, such excess first will be treated as a tax-free return of capital to the extent of the US Holders tax basis in its shares or ADSs, and thereafter as gain from the sale or exchange of property.
170 Dividends received by an individual US Holder before 1 January 2011 with respect to such US Holders shares or ADSs will generally be subject to a reduced rate of US federal taxation, provided that certain holding period and other requirements are met, and provided further that the Company is a qualified foreign corporation.
A qualified foreign corporation includes a foreign corporation that is eligible for the benefits of certain comprehensive income tax treaties with the US.
US Treasury Department guidance indicates that a foreign corporation organised in the UK, such as the Company, will qualify.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the application of these rules.
Any non-US withholding tax with respect to a dividend may be used as a credit against a US Holders US federal income tax liability, subject to certain conditions and limitations.
The amount of any dividend paid in non-US currency will be equal to the US dollar value of such currency on the date the dividend is included in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
A US Holder will generally be required to recognise US source ordinary income or loss when such US Holder sells or disposes of non-US currency.
The US Holder will have a tax basis in this non-US currency equal to the US dollar value of the currency on the date the dividend is included in the US Holders income.
This foreign currency gain or loss will generally be US source ordinary income or loss.
Taxation of capital gains US Holders who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposal of their ADSs or shares unless they carry on a trade in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment, or a profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency and such ADSs or shares are used, held or acquired for the purposes of the trade, profession, vocation, branch, agency or permanent establishment.
The surrender of ADSs in exchange for shares should not usually give rise to UK corporation tax, or US or UK capital gains tax, for US Holders who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK.
In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a US Holder will recognise capital gain or loss if such US Holder sells or exchanges shares or ADSs, provided that such shares or ADSs are capital assets in the hands of such US Holder subject to the discussion below under US passive foreign investment company rules.
Any gain or loss will generally be US source gain or loss.
For an individual, any capital gain will generally be subject to US federal income tax at preferential rates if the individual has held the shares or ADSs for more than one year.
US passive foreign investment company rules The Company believes that it will not be treated as a passive foreign investment company PFIC for US federal income tax purposes for the current taxable year or for future taxable years.
However, an actual determination of PFIC status is factual and cannot be made until the close of the applicable taxable year.
The Company will be a PFIC for any taxable year in which either: i 75% or more of its gross income is passive income: or ii its assets that produce passive income or that are held for the production of passive income amount to at least 50% of the value of its total assets on average.
For purposes of this test, the Company will be treated as directly owning its proportionate share of the assets, and directly receiving its proportionate share of the gross income, of each corporation in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least 25% of the value of the shares of such corporation.
If the Company were to become a PFIC, the tax applicable to distributions on shares or ADSs and any gains a US Holder recognises on disposition of shares or ADSs may be less favourable to such US Holder.
Accordingly, each person should consult with his own professional advisor regarding the PFIC rules.
Inheritance and gift taxes An individual who is domiciled in the US for the purposes of the United Kingdom-United States Estate and Gift Tax Convention the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not a national of the UK for the purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty will generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of the shares or ADSs on the individuals death or on a gift of the shares or ADSs during the individuals lifetime provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate tax liability is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business property of a permanent establishment in the UK of an enterprise or pertain to a fixed base in the UK of an individual used for the performance of independent personal services.
Where the ADSs or shares have been placed in trust by a settlor who, at time of settlement, was a US Holder, the ADSs or shares will generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax unless the settlor, at the time of settlement, was not domiciled in the US and was a UK national.
In the exceptional case where the shares are subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides for the tax paid in the UK to be credited against tax paid in the US or for tax paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK based on priority rules set out in that Treaty.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 171 UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax A transfer for value of the shares executed on or after 1 October 1999 will generally be subject to UK ad valorem stamp duty, normally at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration given for the transfer, rounded up if necessary to the nearest multiple of 5.
Stamp duty is normally a liability of the purchaser.
An agreement to transfer shares or any interest therein for money or moneys worth will normally give rise to a charge to stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration for the shares or interest therein with no rounding up or down.
However, if a duly stamped instrument of transfer of the shares is executed in pursuance of the agreement and duly produced within six years of the date on which the agreement for sale is made or, if the agreement is conditional, the date on which the condition is satisfied any SDRT paid is generally repayable with interest, and otherwise the SDRT charge is cancelled.
SDRT is in general payable by the purchaser.
The UK Finance Act 1996 makes it clear that contrary to previous UK HMRC practice SDRT will be levied in respect of agreements to transfer chargeable securities which include shares even where a person not resident in the UK buys chargeable securities from another non-resident and the transaction is carried out outside the UK.
Stamp duty or SDRT charges at the rate of 1.5% in the case of both stamp duty and SDRT of the amount or value of the consideration, or in some circumstances, the value of the shares, may arise on a transfer of shares to the Depositary or the Custodian of the Depositary or to certain persons providing a clearance system or their nominees or agents and will usually be payable by the Depositary or such other persons.
It is possible for persons operating clearance services to make an election to HMRC subject to certain conditions, pursuant to which, instead of the 1.5% stamp duty or SDRT charge applying on entry as described above, a 0.5% SDRT charge would apply to transfers of securities made within the system.
In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any tax or duty payable by the Depositary or the Custodian of the Depositary on any subsequent deposit of shares will be charged by the Depositary to the holder of the ADS or any deposited security represented by the ADS.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the acquisition or transfer of an ADS or beneficial ownership of an ADS, provided that the ADS and any separate instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remains at all times outside the UK, and provided further that any instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK.
An agreement to transfer ADSs will not give rise to a liability for SDRT.
Any transfer for value of the underlying shares represented by ADSs which will exclude a transfer from the Custodian of the Depositary or the Depositary to an ADS holder on a cancellation of the ADSs, may give rise to a liability to UK stamp duty.
The amount of UK stamp duty payable is generally calculated at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration on a transfer from the Custodian of the Depositary to a US Holder or registered holder of an ADS, rounded up if necessary to the nearest multiple of 5.
Upon cancellation of the ADS, however, only a fixed UK stamp duty of 5 per instrument of transfer will be payable.
US information reporting and backup withholding Dividend payments on the shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale, exchange or other disposition of the shares or ADSs may be subject to information reporting to the Internal Revenue Service and possible US backup withholding at a rate of 28%.
US federal backup withholding generally is imposed on specified payments to persons that fail to furnish required information.
Backup withholding will not apply to a holder who furnishes a correct taxpayer identification number or certificate of foreign status and makes any other required certification, or who is otherwise exempt from backup withholding.
Any US persons required to establish their exempt status generally must file Internal Revenue Service Form W-9, Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld as backup withholding may be credited against a US Holders US federal income tax liability.
A US Holder may obtain a refund of any excess amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund with the Internal Revenue Service and furnishing any required information.
Documents on display Certain documents referred to in this Annual Report can be inspected at our offices at Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex, TW7 5QD, England.
A copy of the Annual Report can be downloaded from the Companys corporate website at www.
We are subject to the periodic reporting and other informational requirements of the US Securities Exchange Act.
Under the Exchange Act, we are required to file reports and other information with the SEC.
Copies of reports and other information, when so filed, may be inspected without charge and may be obtained at prescribed rates at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC at 100 F Street, N. E. Washington, D. C. 20549.
The public may obtain information regarding the SECs Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8090.
Our public filings with the SEC are also available on the website maintained by the SEC at www.
172 Material modifications to the rights of security holders and use of proceeds The constituent instruments defining the rights of holders of ordinary shares have not been materially modified.
Pursuant to the terms of the Deposit Agreement, The Bank of New York, as Depositary, has agreed to notify holders of ADSs of all actions of the Company in which shareholders of ordinary shares are entitled to exercise voting rights, thus facilitating the exercise of voting rights by holders of ADSs.
The address of The Bank of New York is 101 Barclay Street, New York, New York, 10286.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 173
