GLOSSARY OF TERMS USEFUL DEFINITIONS DESCRIPTION ADS American Depositary Share ATC Advanced Technology Centre Basic Packages DTH subscription packages which exclude Premium Channels bonus channel A channel provided to a subscriber in addition to one or more subscription channels, but at no incremental cost to the subscriber BSkyB or the Company British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Churn The number of DTH subscribers over a given period that terminate their subscription in its entirety, net of former subscribers who reinstate their subscription in that period where such reinstatement is within a twelve month period of the termination of their original subscription, expressed as a percentage of total subscribers.
Digibox Digital satellite reception equipment DSL Digital Subscriber Line DTH Direct-to-Home: the transmission of satellite services with reception through a minidish.
The Group also retails certain Sky Channels in some cases together with channels broadcast by third parties to a limited number of DSL subscribers references throughout to DTH subscribers include DSL subscribers DTT Digital Terrestrial Television: digital signals delivered to homes through a conventional aerial, converted through a set top box or integrated digital television set EITF Emerging Issues Task Force: a body which assists in providing financial reporting guidance under US GAAP EPG Electronic Programme Guide ESOP Employee Share Ownership Plan Fiscal year or fiscal Refers to the twelve months ended on the Sunday nearest to 30 June of the given year Freesat Non-subscription service offered by Sky Freeview The free DTT offering operating in the UK GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles the Group BSkyB and its subsidiary undertakings HDTV High Definition Television IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards IP Internet Protocol: the mechanism by which data packets may be routed between computers on a network LLU Local Loop Unbundling: a process by which BTs exchange lines are physically disconnected from BTs network and connected to other operators networks.
This enables operators other than BT to use the BT local loop to provide services to customers Minidish Satellite dish required to receive digital satellite television MPLS Multi Protocol Label Switching: a networking standard for including routing information in the data packets of an Internet Protocol network.
Multichannel viewing share Share of viewers of non-analogue terrestrial television Multiroom Installation of an additional Digibox in the household of an existing subscriber Ofcom Office of Communications 174 Premium Channels The Sky Premium Channels and the Premium Sky Distributed Channels Premium Sky Distributed Channels Disney Cinemagic including a Disney multiplex channel, Disney Cinemagic 1 from 16 March 2006, The Disney Channel including three Disney multiplex channels, Toon Disney, Playhouse Disney and Disney Channel 1 hour was replaced by Disney Cinemagic including a Disney multiplex channel, Disney Cinemagic 1 and Toon Disney and Playhouse Disney became Basic Package channels, FilmFour including the FilmFour multiplex channels, FilmFour 1 and FilmFour Weekly from 23 July 2006, FilmFour is being broadcast as a free-to-air channel, MUTV, Chelsea TV and Music Choice Extra Pub Channel A wholly-owned business-to-business television channel available only to the licensed retail trade PVR Personal Video Recorder: satellite decoder which utilises a built-in hard disk drive to enable viewers to record without videotapes, pause live television and record one programme while watching another RCF Revolving Credit Facility Sky British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings Sky Skys fully-integrated Personal Video Recorder PVR and satellite decoder Sky Active The brand name for Skys transactional interactive television services, including e-mail messaging, games, betting, shopping, banking, travel services and ticket sales Sky Basic Channels Sky One and its multiplex versions, Sky Two and Sky Three, and its simulcast version, Sky One HD, Sky News, Sky Travel and its multiplex versions, Sky Travel 1 and Sky Travel Extra, Sky Travel Shop, Sky Sports News, Artsworld including its simulcast version, Artsworld HD all references to Sky Channels relating to periods prior to 4 March 2005 exclude Artsworld, Sky Vegas 845, Sky Vegas 846, Flaunt, Bliss which was named The Amp until 2 March 2006 and Scuzz Sky Bet Skys betting services, provided through digiboxes, the internet and via phone Sky Buy Interactive and internet shopping services Sky Channels Television channels wholly owned by the Group, being the Sky Basic Channels and Sky Premium Channels Sky Distributed Channels Television channels owned and broadcast by third parties, retailed by the Group to DTH viewers Sky Premium Channel Package DTH subscription package which includes one or more of the Sky Premium Channels Sky Premium Channels Sky Movies 1 and its multiplex versions, Sky Movies 3, Sky Movies 5, Sky Movies 7 and Sky Movies 9, and its simulcast version, Sky Movies 9 HD, Sky Movies 2 and its multiplex versions, Sky Movies 4, Sky Movies 6, Sky Movies 8 and Sky Movies 10, and its simulcast version, Sky Movies 10 HD, Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2 and their simulcast version, Sky Sports HD and Sky Sports Xtra.
Sky Premium Channels include bonus channels, including Sky Sports 3 and Sky Cinema 1 and its multiplex version, Sky Cinema 2 Sky Talk Home phone service provided exclusively for Sky digital subscribers SkyVenue A wholly-owned business television channel available only to the licensed retail trade for viewing by their customers Sky World The top tier of packages that includes all Sky Premium Channels Terrestrial channels Television channels which have access to analogue spectrum.
The UK currently has five terrestrial channels: BBC 1, BBC 2, ITV, Channel 4 and five Transmission costs Costs of transmitting channels to subscribers Transponder Wireless communication devices on satellites which send programming signals to minidishes VAT Value Added Tax: a UK sales tax levied on most goods and services Viewing share Number of people viewing a channel as a percentage of total viewing audience VoD Video-on-Demand BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 175 VPN Virtual Private Network: a network that uses a public telecommunication infrastructure, such as the internet, to provide remote offices or individual users with secure access to their organisations network WAN Wide Area Network.
Companies link networks at different sites over the internet to form a secure WAN.
176 FORM 20-F CROSS REFERENCE GUIDE The information in this document that is referred to below shall be deemed to be part of the Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2006 that has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This information is the only information that is intended to be filed or incorporated by reference into any filing made by the Company under applicable US securities laws.
Item Form 20-F caption Location in this document Page 1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisors Not applicable n a 2 Offer statistics and expected timetable Not applicable n a 3 Key information A Selected financial data Group financial record 157 Shareholder Information Exchange rates 163 B Capitalization and indebtedness Not applicable n a C Reason for the offer and use of proceeds Not applicable n a D Risk factors Risk Factors 24 4 Information on the Company A History and development of the Company The business, its objectives and its strategy 5 B Business overview The business, its objectives and its strategy 5 Government regulation 27 C Organizational structure Consolidated financial statements Note 30 Group Investments 119 D Property, plants and equipment Property 49 4A Unresolved staff comments None n a 5 Operating and financial review and prospects A Operating results Financial review 37 Financial and operating review 39 B Liquidity and capital resources Financial and operating review Liquidity and capital resources 43 C Research and development, patents and licenses, etc Financial and operating review Research and development 47 D Trend information Financial and operating review Trends and other information 45 E Off balance sheet arrangements Financial and operating review Off-balance sheet arrangements 46 F Tabular disclosure of contractual obligations Financial and operating review Tabular disclosure of contractual obligations 44 G Safe harbor Forward looking statements 2 6 Directors, senior management and employees A Directors and senior management Board of Directors and senior management 51 B Compensation Report on Directors remuneration 63 C Board practices Report on Directors remuneration 8.
Non-executive Directors 67 Corporate governance report Board committees 60 D Employees Board of Directors and senior management Employees 54 Consolidated financial statements Note 7 Employee benefits and key management compensation 90 E Share ownership Report on Directors remuneration 11.
Share interests 70 Report on Directors remuneration 13.
Sharesave scheme options 72 7 Major shareholders and related party transactions A Major shareholders Shareholder information Principal shareholders 162 B Related party transactions Financial and operating review Related party transactions 47 Consolidated financial statements Note 29 Transactions with related parties and major shareholders 118 C Interests of experts and counsel Not applicable n a 8 Financial information A Consolidated statements and other financial Auditors report 74 information Consolidated financial statements 76 Financial and operating review Trends and other information 45 B Significant changes None n a BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 177 Item Form 20-F caption Location in this document Page 9 The offer and listing A Offer and listing details Shareholder information Share price information 161 B Plan of distribution Not applicable n a C Markets Shareholder information Share information 160 D Selling shareholders Not applicable n a E Dilution Not applicable n a F Expenses of the issue Not applicable n a 10 Additional information A Share capital Not applicable n a B Memorandum and articles of association Shareholder information Memorandum and articles of association 164 C Material contracts The business, its objectives and its strategy Material contracts 36 D Exchange controls Shareholder information Exchange controls 170 E Taxation Shareholder information Taxation 170 F Dividends and paying agents Not applicable n a G Statement by experts Not applicable n a H Documents on display Shareholder information Documents on Display 172 I Subsidiary information Not applicable n a 11 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk Consolidated financial statements Note 22 Derivatives and other financial instruments 105 12 Description of securities other than equity securities Not applicable n a 13 Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies Not applicable n a 14 Material modifications to the rights of security holders and use Shareholder information Material modifications to the rights of of proceeds security holders and use of proceeds 173 15 Controls and procedures Corporate governance report 58 16A Audit committee financial expert Corporate governance report Audit Committee 61 16B Code of ethics Corporate governance report Corporate policies 58 16C Principal accountant fees and services Consolidated financial statements Note 6 Profit before taxation 90 Corporate governance report Use of external auditors 62 16D Exemptions from the listing standards for audit committees None n a 16E Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and affiliated Consolidated financial statements Note 24 Reconciliation of purchasers shareholders equity Purchase of own shares and capital redemption reserve 112 17 Financial statements Not applicable n a 18 Financial statements Auditors report 74 Consolidated financial statements 76 19 Exhibits Filed with the SEC 178 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2006 211654 SKY REPORT OUTCVR n 03 8 06 8:57 am Page 1 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc GRANT WAY, ISLEWORTH, Sky Annual Report 2006 MIDDLESEX TW7 5QD, ENGLAND British Sky Broadcasting Group plc TELEPHONE 0870 240 3000 FACSIMILE 0870 240 3060 WWW.
COM REGISTERED IN ENGLAND NO.
2247735 Sky Annual Review 2006 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Whatever, wherever, whenever...
Viewing habits are changing and so are we.
Consumers demand to be able to watch their favourite shows at home or on the move, on the device and at the time of their choosing.
Our aim is to deliver the best content to people whether theyre watching via satellite, a broadband connection or their mobile phone.
Thats what the last year has been all about at Sky: charting a course for growth that lays the foundations for the next exciting step in the revolution in communications and entertainment.
We continue to provide the best content and the most innovative products and back it all up with an ongoing commitment to world-class standards in customer care and community responsibility.
HIGHLIGHTS DTH subscribers increased to 8.176 Gross margin expanded by four million, growth of 389,000 in the year percentage points to 61% Sky households increased by 75% Operating profit increased by 7% to 1.553 million, 19% penetration of to 877 million, an operating margin total DTH subscribers of 21% Multiroom households increased by Adjusted earnings per share increased 62% to 1.047 million, 13% penetration by 9% to 30.7 pence of total DTH subscribers A proposed 34% increase in the Revenue increased by 8% to final dividend to 6.7 pence per share, 4.1 billion generating a full year dividend of 12.2 pence CONTENTS 1 Chairmans statement 18 The strength of the brand 2 Chief Executive Officers statement 20 Taking responsibility Review of the year: 22 Being a responsible employer 4 Operating review 24 Board of Directors 4 Financial review 26 Summary Directors Report 8 The best of all worlds 27 Summary Report on Directors Remuneration 10 Innovation, innovation, innovation 33 Summary Financial Statements 15 Must-see TV 39 Independent Auditors Statement 17 Service makes the difference 40 Shareholder Information 1 in3 homes WITH 8.2 MILLION DTH SUBSCRIBERS NEARLY ONE IN THREE HOMES IN THE UK AND IRELAND HAS CHOSEN SKY.
1 in 5 customers IN ADDITION TO LAUNCHING MOBILE, BROADBAND AND HIGH DEFINITION SERVICES, SKY AND MULTIROOM ALSO GREW FASTER THAN EVER BEFORE.
MORE THAN ONE IN FIVE CUSTOMERS TAKES AN ADDITIONAL SERVICE FROM US.
Chairmans statement The story of Skys continued success comes down to a single We also successfully completed the implementation factor.
Rather than simply ensuring that the company keeps pace of new customer management systems to help us serve with the tremendous changes that are occurring in broadcasting subscribers better and enable the Group to improve sales, and communications, we act as a facilitator of these changes.
increase customer satisfaction, reduce churn and bring to market It was what launched Sky on the path to growth in 1989 and our new products and services with greater speed and effectiveness.
strategic moves over the past 12 months ensure we will continue to maintain a strong position in the marketplace and meet the Customers continue to be attracted to packages offering the needs of an increasingly demanding audience.
widest range of viewing choice available.
The total number of subscribers in the UK and Ireland grew 5% to 8.2 million, } OUR CONTINUED SUCCESS HAS In the past year we took a series of important steps that will allow representing approximately one in three homes in UK and Ireland.
BROUGHT ABOUT BOTH INCREASED us to grow into new segments of the market and add value to One in five of our customers also takes one of our additional REVENUES AND RECORD OPERATING the offering our subscribers receive: we launched Europes first services such as Sky Multiroom or Sky.
The growth in Sky has PROFIT.
THEY ARE ACHIEVEMENTS national high definition broadcast service, completed preparations been a stand-out achievement of the year with 75% growth to a WHICH WOULD PERHAPS PROMPT ANY for the roll-out of residential broadband services and the upgrade presence in more than one and a half million homes.
ORDINARY COMPANY TO WANT TO REST of our customer management systems.
BUT SKY, AS YOU MAY In summary, the robustness of our current offering and the HAVE GATHERED, IS ANYTHING The high definition television service, Sky HD, ranks as perhaps addition of new and innovative services that give consumers BUT ORDINARY.
the most significant development in television since the launch greater control of the viewing experience pave the way for Skys of colour in the 1960s, delivering as it does pictures four times as continued success.
Rupert Murdoch vivid as conventional broadcasts.
The HD offering, which involves Chairman the purchase of a Sky HD box, a high  TV Having served on the Board of Directors for over 14 years, and HD channels, is being rapidly embraced by consumers.
Lord St John of Fawsley has decided not to seek re-election at this years AGM and will retire from the Board.
I would like to thank This year we also moved beyond the broadcast stream.
A package Lord St John for his contribution to the Board over many years.
of live channels can now be watched by consumers on the move He will, however, still be connected with Sky in his new role via their mobile phone.
Sky by broadband enables premium of Chairman of the Artsworld channel, building on his extensive customers to download sports and movies to their PCs at no extra experience as a patron of the arts.
A quarter of a million customers have signed up for the service so far.
At the same time we completed the acquisition of Finally, I want to thank all my colleagues at Sky including those the broadband provider Easynet that will lead to the eventual who have recently joined the Group from Easynet for their integration of broadband into the core customer offering.
By the hard work and dedication and for ensuring that Sky grasps the end of 2007, we expect that Easynets unbundled local loop opportunities that social and technological trends present service will have coverage of around 70% of UK homes.
to ensure we remain leaders in the fields of entertainment, information and communication.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 1 } 4,148 million SINCE THE LAUNCH OF DIGITAL IN OCTOBER 1998, REVENUE HAS GROWN AT AN AVERAGE OF 15% PER YEAR TO OVER 4.1 BILLION.
1 billion IN 2006, CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS WAS MORE THAN 1 BILLION.
Chief Executive Officers statement This has been a year of significant changes not just for Sky, but our shareholders.
With special features like free wireless access, for the entire industry.
Throughout the year, our focus has been security, parental controls and an optional professional home on setting the pace of change, and re-affirming our appetite to installation across all packages, were confident that Sky Broadband continue doing so.
will be a simple choice for millions of our customers creating a new dimension to our business whose potential we are only The development and launch of new products and services that beginning to see.
are more flexible and of higher quality and value has been at the centre of this.
Each of Skys offerings sits at the top of the industry in terms of choice, quality and delivery.
In every case, signs indicate that } THE COMBINATION OF TECHNOLOGY, Our new high definition television service is one example.
It consumers are eager to take advantage of new services, allowing ENTERTAINING CONTENT AND THE represents the biggest revolution in TV picture quality in decades, us to capitalise on our capabilities and deliver an unparalleled CONTINUED DEDICATION OF OUR and once again Sky is leading the field by being the first company entertainment and communications proposition.
WORKFORCE HAS IMPROVED to be able to offer the service nationally, across the widest range SUBSCRIBER GROWTH AND REVENUES, of HD channels, ranging from Sky Sports to Artsworld.
And despite This year we also completed the implementation of our new AND DRIVEN SHAREHOLDER VALUE.
an early hiccup with one of our suppliers, the vast majority of customer management system.
Our levels of customer service our very first HD customers were able to enjoy the World Cup in have always led the industry, and it has proven to be a key James Murdoch glorious HD and Dolby 5.1 sound and they loved it.
By raising this bar even higher, we increase our Chief Executive Officer competitive advantage and we can bring new technology to The acquisition of Easynet, completed in February, is another the market faster, improve sales, provide better service for our example of our commitment to innovation for our customers.
existing customers, and increase the efficiency of our marketing.
It has prepared the way for Skys new generation of broadband These and other customer-facing initiatives are vital to Skys services.
This is in addition to the already industry-leading health and competitiveness.
technology that includes the much-loved Sky and, more recently, Sky by mobile.
All of the backstage activity that goes on at Sky will only be effective if we continue to invest in the reason that people With Sky Broadband weve designed an incredible product which subscribe to Sky for an extraordinary package of onscreen both rewards our loyal customers with a quality service offering content.
This year we forged new deals with partners ranging simplicity, flexibility, quality, and great value, and opens up new from Disney to the England and Wales Cricket Board.
Our and substantial growth opportunities for the Company and all partnership with Disney means we can now offer more family CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT 2 } DTH subscribers millions Sky penetration % 06 8.2 06 19% 05 7.8 05 11% 04 7.4 04 5% 03 6.8 03 2% AT ONLY 45% PENETRATION, WE BELIEVE THE GROWTH OPPORTUNITY IN THE SKY GIVES CUSTOMERS THE ABILITY TO WATCH WHAT THEY WANT, WHEN UK AND IRELAND PAY TELEVISION SECTOR IS SIGNIFICANT.
OUR TARGET IS TO THEY WANT.
INCREASED CHOICE, FLEXIBILITY AND CONTROL ARE VALUED BY REACH 10 MILLION DTH SUBSCRIBERS IN 2010.
CUSTOMERS, THAT'S WHY A FURTHER 665,000 HOUSEHOLDS SUBSCRIBED TO SKY THIS YEAR.
OUR TARGET IS FOR 25% OF OUR CUSTOMERS TO HAVE A SKY PRODUCT IN 2010.
Multiroom penetration % All figures relate to financial years 06 13% 05 8% 04 4% 03 2% MORE THAN ONE MILLION SKY HOUSEHOLDS ENJOY THE FLEXIBILITY OF BEING ABLE TO WATCH DIFFERENT SKY CHANNELS ON DIFFERENT TELEVISION SETS.
OUR TARGET IS FOR 30% OF OUR CUSTOMERS TO TAKE TWO OR MORE SUBSCRIPTIONS IN 2010.
OUR SUCCESS FACTORS entertainment to Sky customers, while the advent of legal movie downloads mean our range and accessibility grows every day.
LEADING-EDGE INNOVATION THAT MAKES NEW TECHNOLOGY EASY AND We also became reacquainted with some old friends notably ENJOYABLE TO USE the FA Premier League and UEFA, with whom we have negotiated to continue two of the successful partnerships that have made AN UNRIVALLED CHOICE OF SUPERB Sky Sports the home of football.
CONTENT, DELIVERED IN A WAY THAT PUTS THE CUSTOMER IN CONTROL These are just a few examples of the enormous activity and enterprise that Sky people invest every day into making what MARKET-LEADING CUSTOMER SERVICE THATS BACKED BY REAL INVESTMENT goes on screen for our customers the absolute best in its class.
IN BOTH PEOPLE AND SYSTEMS We were busy on other fronts, too.
This year we announced that, A BRAND PEOPLE KNOW AND TRUST through the measurement, reduction, and offsetting of our carbon TO GIVE THEM THE BEST IN HOME dioxide emissions, we have achieved carbon neutral status.
It is ENTERTAINMENT the first commitment of this kind by a major media company anywhere.
Caring about what our customers care about is at the centre of our community activity, and I am personally proud to be able to take such a firm stand on this issue, which is so important to all our people at Sky, and is a growing and important issue for our customers and their families.
The combination of technology, entertainment, and the continuing dedication of our workforce has improved customer growth, turnover, and earnings.
We are healthy, strong and hungry and I look forward to the coming year and all of the opportunity it holds.
Thank you for your involvement.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 3 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Review of the year Sky reached a number of significant operational milestones this year whilst preparing the business for the launch of broadband services and delivering a very strong financial performance.
Revenue increased by 8% to over 4.1 billion generating record cash flow from operations of over 1 billion.
Operating review penetration of total subscribers.
The The Group also concluded a number of Sky delivered a strong performance in significant growth in Sky households, other content agreements as part of its the twelve months to 30 June 2006 which grew by a further 665,000 in commitment to invest on-screen.
Total DTH customers reached the year, demonstrates the value that February 2006, Sky and Disney announced 8,176,000, an increase of 389,000 for the customers place on easy to use technology a wide ranging series of agreements year, in line with the rate required to which enables them to better manage covering childrens entertainment, sports achieve Skys target of over 10 million DTH their time and control their viewing.
Under the agreements, Sky customers in 2010.
Product mix continued number of Multiroom households also Movies customers will also be able to enjoy to improve with one in five customers now continued to grow strongly, increasing these movies via the Sky by broadband choosing to take an additional product.
The Group also Sky remains on track to achieve over 30% penetration of total DTH subscribers.
secured live coverage of UEFA Champions Multiroom penetration and over 25% League football until the end of the 08 09 Sky penetration by 2010.
Sky launched high definition TV services season on 13 September 2005 and both on 22 May 2006 and there were 38,000 National Geographic and Discovery Total revenue increased by 8% to 4,148 Sky HD subscribers at 30 June 2006.
The launched HD channels during the year million, with operating costs at 3,271 total number of bookings to date is around which form part of the Sky HD offering.
Operating profit increased by 90,000 and after some initial delays, The launch of The Crime and Investigation 7% to 877 million, including the first time the Group currently expects to install Network channel, coverage of the consolidation of the Easynet Group plc all of these orders by September 2006.
Americas Cup and A1 Grand Prix racing Easynet and the first phase of Sky Sports HD has covered nearly 50 days also demonstrate the Groups commitment investment in the roll-out of residential of live cricket including three England Test to widen the range and depth of broadband services.
matches, five England One-Day programming within its wholly owned Internationals and 24 domestic matches.
channels and with channel partners.
Adjusted profit for the year increased In addition to Englands busy summer of by 4% to 561 million generating cricket, Sky Sports HD will be showing On 31 March 2006, Sky completed the adjusted earnings per share of 30.7 pence, coverage of the 2006 Ryder Cup, Guinness implementation of its new customer representing an increase of 9% on the Premiership Rugby, and Coca Cola League, management systems.
These new systems year ended 30 June 2005 the comparable Carling Cup, UEFA Champions League and will support the projected growth in Skys period.
Barclays Premiership football, all live and subscriber base and a greater number of in high definition.
products, as Sky continues to launch new At the same time, Sky delivered on a entertainment and communications number of key operational initiatives which Annualised average revenue per DTH services.
These systems also integrate key position the Group well for the future: subscriber ARPU for the last quarter parts of the customer service chain, such of the year was 388, a 4 decrease on as the contact centres and field engineers, Preparations were made for the launch the previous quarter.
This reflects a slight which will enable the Group to offer a more of Sky Broadband on 18 July 2006 seasonal deterioration in the mix of tailored, flexible and immediate response following the acquisition of Easynet: subscription packages during the quarter when dealing with customer requests.
Sky HD launched nationwide on and an increase in the volume of new 22 May 2006: customers on short-term promotional Financial review New customer management systems subscription offers.
Total revenue for the year increased by were implemented and went live for 8% on the comparable period to 4,148 all DTH customers from 31 March 2006: DTH churn for the year was 11.1%.
Total operating costs increased by Key rights to the FA Premier League were 251 million to 3,271 million generating a secured for the 07 08 to 09 10 seasons: During the final quarter the Group Group operating profit of 877 million.
This Major contracts were agreed with movie announced that it had been awarded four result includes an operating loss from the studio and third party channel partners: packages of live FA Premier League rights first time consolidation of Easynet of 11 Sky announced the creation of over 1,500 covering 92 games per season for the million and the first phase of the Groups new jobs for customer advisors and 600 2007 08 to 2009 10 seasons in both the investment in the roll-out of its residential new positions for home installation UK and Ireland.
Sky has also been awarded broadband business of 12 million.
engineers: and near live long form rights to 242 games Sky achieved carbon neutral status, a per season in both the UK and Ireland Revenue world first for a major media company jointly with BT in the case of the UK DTH revenues increased by 6% on the and mobile clip rights in both the UK comparable period to 3,154 million, At 30 June 2006, the total number of Sky and Ireland.
which was principally driven by 5% growth households was 1,553,000, 19% in the average number of DTH subscribers.
REVIEW OF THE YEAR 4 7% increase OPERATING PROFIT INCREASED BY 7% TO 877 MILLION.
Wholesale revenues continue to 1.6 billion.
This enabled the Group to Easynet and initial broadband expenses.
disappoint, growing by only 2% for the make significant progress in expanding Excluding these items, other operating second consecutive year to 224 million.
gross margin, which increased by a further expenses increased by 180 million on This largely reflects the decline in the four percentage points during the year the comparable period.
absolute number of Pay-TV cable customers to 61%.
taking one or more premium channels, Marketing costs for the year were 622 offset by changes to wholesale prices.
Sports costs increased by 16 million million, an increase of 95 million on the to 766 million.
The additional costs comparable period.
Marketing costs to new Advertising revenue for the full year associated with the new ECB cricket customers grew by 51 million to 359 } GROSS MARGIN ROSE BY FOUR continued to outperform, growing by contract, which started to be amortised million.
This reflects an absolute increase PERCENTAGE POINTS TO 61% DUE TO 4% on the comparable period to 342 in May 2006 and an additional cricket tour in the number of new customers and a THE OPERATING LEVERAGE OF STRONG million against an estimated 0.2% decline during the year were offset by the absence growing percentage of customers taking REVENUE GROWTH AND ABSOLUTE in the UK television advertising sector.
This of the Ryder Cup, which is a biennial event.
During the year, 18% of new REDUCTIONS IN PROGRAMMING COSTS.
principally reflects a further one percentage The Group expects sports costs for the customers chose to take Sky from day one, point increase in Skys share of the UK 2007 financial year to increase by around as opposed to 13% last year.
As a result of television advertising sector during the 50 million behind an outstanding line-up this activity, the total average subscriber Jeremy Darroch Chief Financial Officer year to 13.0%.
of sporting events over the next twelve acquisition cost increased by 24 on the months, including live cricket from the comparable period to 261.
During the As announced on 25 April 2006, following new ECB contract and a number of nonyear the rate at which existing customers recent changes in industry practice annual events, such as the Ryder Cup in upgraded to Sky and Multiroom also regarding the accounting for betting September 2006 and the 2007 Cricket accelerated, which led to an increased revenues and costs under International World Cup and qualifying matches for investment of 23 million.
Above the line Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, UEFA Euro 2008. marketing remained broadly flat at 75 betting payouts have been netted against million and retention and other marketing Sky Bet revenues.
Accordingly, all financial Movie costs for the year were 310 million, costs increased by 18 million on the results, including comparatives, have been a saving of 33 million on the comparable comparable period to 110 million.
There is no effect period and the lowest absolute cost for on operating profit.
This saving reflects contract Subscriber management costs grew by renewals, the phasing of title delivery 76 million to 468 million.
This reflects Sky Bet revenue for the year was and a foreign exchange benefit of 8 the first time consolidation of Easynet 37 million, an increase of 16% which million from a more favourable average and broadband expenses 12 million, reflects the strong growth in both exchange rate at which US dollars were depreciation of the new customer Sky Vegas and sports betting.
The Group expects the recent management systems of 26 million and revenue for the year was 341 million.
contract renewals with three of the Major underlying growth of 38 million due to Hollywood studios to deliver further cost the expansion of the Groups customer Sky Active revenues were 91 million for savings on a per subscriber basis over the management operation to further improve the year.
Good rates of growth in both next two to three years.
customer service levels and manage the interactive advertising and enhanced TV increase in sales activity.
During the year service revenues were offset by the News and Entertainment costs were Sky expanded its existing customer service absence of SkyBuy revenue, following the 200 million, reflecting a combined operations in Scotland, adding 1,500 new closure of the business in the final quarter increased investment of 20 million in customer advisor positions and 600 new of the last financial year.
Sky One commissioned programming home installation engineers in preparation and Sky News.
for the roll-out of broadband and providing Other revenue grew strongly, increasing the Group with one of the largest customer by 49% to 300 million.
This reflects the Third party channel costs fell by 11% on service and home installation workforces in first time consolidation of the Easynet the comparable period to 323 million, a the UK.
corporate business 76 million and reduction of 39 million.
A 5% increase in underlying growth of 11%, relating to the the average number of DTH subscribers was Transmission costs were 234 million, an full year effect of Sky credit card revenues more than offset by a 15% reduction in the increase of 63 million on the comparable and the Sky News channel five contract.
cost per subscriber to 3.37 per month.
period, which entirely related to the first time consolidation of Easynet and Programming Other operating costs broadband costs of 63 million.
Underlying Total programming costs continued to Total other operating costs increased by transmission costs were flat on the reduce in absolute terms, falling by 36 287 million to 1,672 million, including comparable period.
million on the comparable period to under 107 million of operating expenses from BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 5 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 } Review of the year continued Analysis of revenue 2006 % Administration costs grew by 53 million representing timing differences on fixed which went live for all DTH customers on on the comparable period to 348 million.
The current tax charge has benefited 31 March 2006.
A total of 37 million This mainly reflects the inclusion of from a partial unwind of this asset in the was spent unbundling exchanges and 6 Easynet and broadband administration current year of 59 million, reducing the readying the business for the launch of 5 4 3 expenditure of 29 million and increased cash tax liability due in respect of the Sky Broadband and 16 million was depreciation of 16 million as a result of current year profits accordingly.
The balance invested to progress the Groups property, 2 the Groups infrastructure programme is expected to unwind in future periods.
business continuity and infrastructure which commenced in August 2004. projects.
The Group invested 10 million Earnings to upgrade its production and broadcast 1 Total operating profit grew by 7% on the The Groups adjusted profit for the year was facilities ahead of the launch of high comparable period which benefited from 561 million, generating adjusted earnings definition services and capitalised a one-time 13 million receipt of ITV per share of 30.7 pence, an increase of 9% 14 million of smartcard development digital programming receivables to 877 on the comparable period.
The remaining 97 million was 1 DTH 76% million.
Group operating profit margin for mark-to-market movement, net of tax, of spent on a number of projects, such as 2 Cable 6% the year was 21%.
10 million, the Groups profit for the year IS infrastructure, broadcast equipment 3 Advertising 8% was 551 million generating basic earnings and the development of new products 4 Sky Bet 1% Joint Ventures per share of 30.2 pence.
5 Sky Active 2% The Groups share of net profits from its 6 Other 7% joint ventures was 12 million, a reduction Cash Flow Distributions to shareholders of 2 million on the comparable period.
Skys cash flow generation continued to The Board of Directors is proposing a final This reflects the disposal of the Groups be very strong with operating cash inflows dividend of 6.70 pence per ordinary share, Analysis of operating holding in Granada Sky Broadcasting and exceeding 1 billion for the first time.
resulting in a total dividend for the year of expenditure 2006 % Music Choice Europe and lower operating Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 12.20 pence and consistent with the Boards results from the History Channel which has and amortisation EBITDA increased by statement in February 2006 that it intended been partially offset by improved results 11% to 1,017 million.
After a small net to reduce target dividend cover from 5 from National Geographic and Attheraces.
working capital outflow of 13 million, approximately 3.0 times to approximately 4 following the payment in the quarter of 2.5 times underlying earnings.
Interest the deposits for the recently secured FA 1 The total net interest charge for the year Premier League rights, the Group generated In light of the continued cash generative was 91 million, an increase of 33 million a cash inflow from operations of 1,004 nature of the Group, it is the Boards aim to 3 on the comparable period.
After taxation of 172 million, maintain a progressive dividend policy 2 charge reflects an 18 million non-cash net interest payable of 62 million, net throughout the investment phase of the movement in the mark-to-market valuation proceeds from joint ventures of 5 million recently announced broadband strategy.
It of non-hedge accounted derivatives, and capital expenditure of 212 million, is therefore the Boards current intention to 1 Programming 49% interest payable on the guaranteed notes the Group generated 563 million of free reflect the underlying growth in earnings 2 Transmission 7% issued on 20 October 2005, which raised cash flow.
A total of 599 million was when setting future dividends, resulting in 3 Marketing 19% net proceeds of around 1,014 million and returned to shareholders through a continued real growth in dividend per share.
4 Subscriber the net impact on interest following the combination of the ordinary dividend and Management 14% acquisition of Easynet.
share buyback programme and a net cash The ex-dividend date will be 25 October 5 Administration 11% outflow for acquisitions, primarily for the 2006 and, subject to shareholder approval Taxation acquisition of Easynet, was 209 million.
at the Companys Annual General Meeting, The total tax charge for the period of After the inclusion of share option the dividend will be paid on 17 November 247 million includes a current tax purchases and proceeds and the 2006 to shareholders on record on charge of 141 million and a deferred tax revaluation of long-term borrowings and 27 October 2006. charge of 106 million.
The mainstream borrowing-related financial derivatives, the corporation tax liability for the period was Groups net debt increased by 373 million During the year the Group repurchased for 147 million and in accordance with the during the year to 761 million.
cancellation 76.4 million shares for a total quarterly payment regime, 95 million consideration of 408 million, including was paid during the year in respect of During the year the Group made further stamp duty and commissions.
progress on its capital expenditure and comprised 22.7 million shares which infrastructure programme.
The Group spent completed the authority granted on As a result of the acquisition of Easynet, 38 million completing the final stages 12 November 2004 and 53.7 million the Group recognised a deferred tax of the project to upgrade and implement under the current authority granted on asset of 83 million during the year, new customer management systems, 4 November 2005. REVIEW OF THE YEAR 6 Corporate network, IT infrastructure and further Adjusted earnings per share pence On 18 July 2006, the Group launched investment in customer management 06 30.7 Sky Broadband, a compelling and exclusive systems, assets acquired on the purchase 28.2 05 broadband product for Sky customers, of Easynet of 108 million, partly offset which offers great value and a range of by depreciation and amortisation of ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE INCREASED packages to suit different usage needs 140 million.
BY 9% TO 30.7 PENCE within the home.
The packages range from a free service, Base, offering download Current assets increased by 920 million speeds of up to 2Mb to a fast 16Mb from 1,363 million at 30 June 2005 connection, Max, for 10 per month.
to 2,283 million at 30 June 2006, All packages come with a free wireless predominantly due to an increase in shortFull year dividend per share pence router, free 12 months McAfee Security term deposits of 453 million and cash and 06 12.2 and the option of a professional home cash equivalents of 313 million principally 05 9.0 installation.
The launch of Sky Broadband due to the receipt of proceeds from the and Sky Talk, a telephony product for Sky issuance of Guaranteed Notes on 20 THE GROUP PROPOSED A FINAL DIVIDEND OF customers, enable the Group to enter the October 2005.
6.70 PENCE, RESULTING IN A TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR highly valuable and growing markets of THE YEAR OF 12.20 PENCE, AN INCREASE OF 36%, broadband, telephony, and related services Current liabilities increased by 383 million REPRESENTING APPROXIMATELY 40% OF PROFIT FOR for the first time.
Whilst these markets from 1,150 million at 30 June 2005 to THE YEAR offer attractive opportunities on a 1,533 million at 30 June 2006.
This standalone basis, the Group believe that increase was due to the reclassification these new products will have potentially of 162 million of borrowings from nonsignificant benefits to the Groups core pay current to current liabilities relating to television business.
a Guaranteed Note that is repayable in October 2006 and the timing of payments.
On 20 October 2005, the Group made a recommended cash offer for the entire Non-current borrowings increased by 843 share capital of Easynet Group plc.
The million, from 982 million at 30 June 2005 offer became unconditional in all respects to 1,825 million at 30 June 2006, primarily on 6 January 2006.
Easynet was fide-listed due to the issuance of new Guaranteed from the London Stock Exchange in Notes.
The new Guaranteed Notes, which February 2006 and the acquisition of were issued on 20 October 2005, consist Easynet was completed on 10 March 2006. of i US $750 million aggregate principal amount of notes paying 5.625% interest On 14 October 2005, the Group announced and maturing on 15 October 2015, ii US a private placement with institutional $350 million aggregate principal amount investors which raised net proceeds of of notes paying 6.500% interest and approximately 1,014 million from the maturing on 15 October 2035 and iii 400 issuance of guaranteed notes by its wholly million aggregate principal amount of notes owned subsidiary, BSkyB Finance UK plc.
paying 5.750% interest and maturing on 20 October 2017.
Balance sheet Goodwill increased by 206 million, from 417 million at 30 June 2005 to 623 million at 30 June 2006, primarily due to the purchase of Easynet.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets increased by 200 million, from 537 million at 30 June 2005 to 737 million at 30 June 2006, due to 232 million of additions in the year, including refurbishment of leasehold properties, investment in the broadband BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 7 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 10 million THERE WERE NEARLY 10 MILLION BROADBAND CONNECTIONS IN THE UK BY THE END OF 2005, A NUMBER THATS PROJECTED TO DOUBLE BY 2010.
Leading WEVE CREATED AN ENTERTAINMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE THAT COMBINES THE BEST OF BOTH SATELLITE AND BROADBAND.
The best of all worlds } THERES SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE ON Three big trends are changing our industry the explosion of the country, and already covers most of the major urban areas.
SKY MUSIC, MOVIES, SPORT, COMEDY broadband, the huge expansion in the choice of TV and video The quality of its infrastructure also means that it is already AND IF I WANT TO GO OUT I CAN TAKE channels, and the growing appetite for more storage in the capable of supporting video and telephony, and this gives us MY LAPTOP WITH ME AND WATCH home, so that content can be saved, shared, and watched again.
the basis for a powerful new service that brings together the PROGRAMMES ON THAT.
strengths of satellite with the best of broadband.
That new Many of the major developments were undertaking at Sky are service is Sky Broadband, launched this summer.
designed to position the business to take advantage of these new Natalie Taylor trends.
The pace of change is quickening, and were accelerating What Sky Broadband gives us is the ability to bring together Sky customer our own product development to match it.
Part of this is about everything we already offer on Sky Digital with future products scalability and durability for the future, but even more important that broadband can offer, like internet-based telephone calls is flexibility the flexibility to exploit new developments in the and video on demand.
With Easynets expertise and network, way thats best for the business, and best for our customers.
Sky is well positioned to create a service that offers the best of all worlds the huge broadcast capacity of digital satellite that we The acquisition of Easynet was a significant strategic step for already have, the two-way interactivity that Sky Broadband can Sky, because it meant that Sky was no longer just about satellite offer, and massive storage capacity in the home, which builds on broadcasting, but broadband communications and telephony as what we already do with Sky.
There were nearly 10 million broadband connections in the for home entertainment.
UK by the end of 2005, a number thats projected to double by 2010.
Buying Easynet gave us the opportunity to move quickly into broadband through a network that we plan to reach around 70% of the UK population by the end of 2007.
Easynets fibre optic network backbone is one of the largest and most advanced in CHOICE IS EVERYTHING 8 } Coverage for the whole home Were making it possible to access Sky across the home.
By keeping abreast of lifestyle trends, weve realised that people want more choice about what they watch and more flexibility about when and how they watch it.
In effect, they want a service that combines the widest possible choice of programming with storage options that offer the ability to access content that can be shared or seen again.
Broadband SKY CONTENT ON YOUR COMPUTER SKY BROADBAND SKY BY BROADBAND INTERNET SECURITY AND PARENTAL CONTROL 1 2.
TV and Sky box THE BEST AND WIDEST CHOICE OF SKY TV ALL OVER THE HOUSE SKYHD SKY MULTIROOM SKY BOX 5 3.
Mobile 2 ENJOY SKY ON YOUR MOBILE AND DOWNLOAD CLIPS ON THE MOVE SKY BY MOBILE SKY MOBILE TV 4.
Portable wireless audio LISTEN TO SKY MUSIC, RADIO AND TV ANYWHERE IN THE HOUSE OR GARDEN SKY GNOME 2 5.
Telephony PHONE CALLS OVER BROADBAND SKY TALK LINE RENTAL 1 3 4 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 9 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 1 in 5 homes ALMOST ONE IN FIVE SKY CUSTOMERS TAKES SKY THATS 1.6 MILLION HOMES.
Dont miss a thing SKY CUSTOMERS CAN NOW SET UP REMOTE RECORDING USING THEIR MOBILE PHONE.
Innovation, innovation, innovation } HAVING SKY MEANS WE ACTUALLY One of the things we offer all Sky customers is the chance to take Sky adds up GET TO WATCH TV TOGETHER, advantage of the latest technology.
First it was digital TV, then Almost one in five Sky customers takes Sky, our state-of-the-art OTHERWISE WED NEVER WATCH THE an integrated digital decoder and personal video recorder in the technology that gives you the power to take control of when you SAME PROGRAMMES AT THE SAME TIME.
shape of Sky, and now, high definition.
But this isnt innovation watch your favourite programmes.
Sky means you can stop BOTH OUR LIVES ARE VERY BUSY AND for its own sake.
Its first, last and always about our customers.
fitting your life around TV, and start fitting TV around your life.
WE HAVE TWO SMALL CHILDREN SO Its about what new technology can do for them, and how we can WE DONT GET THAT MUCH TIME TO use it to make Sky better, brighter, and even more enticing.
In the last year weve made improvements to the Sky service, OURSELVES BABYSITTERS CAN BE expanding its features, increasing the storage capacity of our EXPENSIVE SO A LOT OF OUR RELAXATION TIME IS SPENT CURLED UP We invested time and money to make our services easier and standard product, and making it even easier and more intuitive ON THE SOFA CATCHING UP ON OUR safer to use.
Weve grouped channels into genre packages to to use after all, who has the time to struggle over instruction FAVOURITE TV SHOWS.
make it simpler for people to decide what to buy, weve added manuals?
We have also added a remote record feature, so that new features, and weve upgraded the parental control systems you can programme your Sky box from your mobile phone.
And that are so important to families.
And were working in soon youll be able to do that on the web too another Sky first.
Amanda Chesney partnership with other industry-leaders: Vodafone is helping Sky customer to bring Sky mobile TV to the UK, while Intel worked with us on High definition dawns Sky by broadband.
But this is just the start.
In May 2006 we launched Sky HD, the high definition television service that offers the widest choice of HD channels in the UK.
As technology gets more complex, our priorities remain simple: Its hard to explain how much better HD is until you see it, but Sky give our customers more choice about their entertainment, and HD viewers are already enjoying everything from sport to movies more control about when, how and where they access it.
And in vibrant colour and brilliant clarity.
package it in a way thats easy to use and adapts to fit their lives.
The Barclays Premiership football season will be available in HD for the first time, as will the Coca Cola Football League, Guinness Premiership rugby, Ryder Cup golf and Englands home internationals and domestic county cricket.
We have two dedicated movie screens, as well as up to ten movies showing in HD on Sky Box Office HD every week, along with special HD programmes on Sky One HD, Artsworld HD, Discovery HD, and National Geographic HD.
And Sky HD doesnt just offer superb picture and Dolby Digital 5.1 sound quality on many packages, but all the extra flexibility and convenience of Sky too.
10 } Chelsea versus Everton during the Barclays Premiership 2006 photo by Ben Radford Getty Images Plenty of plus points WITH SKY YOU CAN STOP FITTING YOUR LIFE AROUND TV, AND START FITTING TV AROUND YOUR LIFE.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 11 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Innovation, innovation, innovation continued Offering such a comprehensive HD service has been a huge Sky Broadband opens up all the possibilities of the internet to technical challenge for us as a business, and has involved everyone Sky customers, but people with an existing broadband connection from the transmission teams, to customer support, to marketing.
have been able to use it to access some of our premium content Weve also been working with Sony on co-marketing the huge for some time.
Sky by broadband already gives Sky World, Sky advantages of HD, and there have been some great offers for Sports Mix and Sky Movies Mix customers the extra freedom and people buying both a Sky HD box and Sony HD-Ready TV.
convenience of accessing around 400 movies and over 1,000 different sports clips via their PC or laptop at no extra charge.
Everything weve seen suggests that therell be huge demand for So far over 250,000 customers have signed up to Sky by HD TV once youve seen what HD can do, ordinary TV just isnt broadband and there have been over a million downloads, and the same.
As with digital, people are going to look for a supplier well be adding entertainment programming from Sky One later who can give them a reliable service thats easy to use and offers in 2006. unbeatable choice.
No-one can do that better than Sky.
Making Sky mobile Sky Broadband is here Sky by mobile offers customers Sky News, Sky Sports In July 2006 we launched our very own broadband service and entertainment video clips and stories on their mobile Sky Broadband.
On the back of Easynets state-of-the-art network, phone allowing them to stay in touch with live events even Sky Broadband which covers 28% of UK households, customers have the chance when theyre out of reach of the TV.
Customers can also access EIGHT YEARS AGO SKY DIGITAL to enjoy the best of the web including super-fast surfing and the Sky Guide Skys 7-day TV listing service.
CHANGED THE FACE OF TELEVISION IN high-speed downloading of music, games, sports clips and THE UK: NOW SKY BROADBAND IS SET movies.
As with everything we do, our first priority with We launched Sky Mobile TV in November 2005 in partnership TO DO THE SAME FOR INTERNET ACCESS.
Sky Broadband was to create a product thats reliable, easy to with Vodafone.
We offer over 20 different channels by 3G use, secure, and offers value for money.
The basic service is a free phone some are live, like Sky News, Sky Sports News, and subscription to Sky TV customers, and there are also Mid and CNN, while others are mobile TV versions of favourite channels Max packages for people who want extra speed and usage.
like Sky One, MTV or Cartoon Network that are designed to be All three come with an option of home installation, and a free watched in short bursts, maybe when youve only ten minutes wireless router so that the benefits of broadband can be enjoyed to spare.
Customers seem to love Sky Mobile TV: by the end of by the whole family, all over the house.
And on top of that were June there were over 100,000 new subscriptions to Sky Mobile also offering customers telephone calls on Sky Talk.
In 2006 a whole summer of live sport was available on save people money on their phone bills with unlimited calls to Sky Mobile TV, including exclusive live coverage of the Football UK landlines, any time of day, for just 5 a month.
League Play-Offs and Englands Test and One-Day internationals } THE PICTURE QUALITY ON HIGH against Sri Lanka and Pakistan.
THE FIRST TIME I SAW IT I SAT THERE FLICKING FROM THE HD CHANNEL TO THE NORMAL ONE, JUST LOOKING AT THE DIFFERENCE.
IF YOU WATCH A FOOTBALL MATCH YOU CAN ACTUALLY SEE THE PLAYERS FACES ALL THE DETAIL.
David Franks Sky customer Sky Mobile TV WE LAUNCHED SKY MOBILE TV IN NOVEMBER 2005 12 } 2.7 million 4 times IT IS ESTIMATED THAT AROUND better 2.7 MILLION HD-READY SCREENS WILL HAVE BEEN SOLD BY THE WITH PICTURE QUALITY MORE THAN END OF 2006.
4 TIMES THAT OF AN ORDINARY BROADCAST, HD IS SET TO BE THE BIGGEST THING IN TV SINCE THE LAUNCH OF COLOUR IN THE LATE 1960s.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 13 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Disney Cinemagic OUR NEW DEAL WITH DISNEY BRINGS DISNEY CINEMAGIC TO SKY FOR THE FIRST TIME, WHICH MEANS EVERYTHING FROM FAMILY FAVOURITES LIKE THE LADY AND THE TRAMP AND CINDERELLA, TO PREMIERES OF NEW BLOCKBUSTER ANIMATIONS LIKE THE INCREDIBLES.
500 channels THERE ARE NOW OVER 500 CHANNELS AVAILABLE ON SKY.
40,000 hours of sport WE SHOWED OVER 40,000 HOURS OF SPORT LAST YEAR, INCLUDING OVER 1,000 LIVE OUTSIDE BROADCASTS.
All rights reserved Awards IN 2006, SKY NEWS WAS NAMED BEST NEWS CHANNEL IN BROADCASTS DIGITAL CHANNEL AWARDS.
IT WON THE ROYAL TELEVISION SOCIETYS INNOVATION AWARD AND JEREMY THOMPSON WAS NAMED THEIR NEWS PRESENTER OF THE YEAR.
Live International Cricket, Sky Sports Saved For The Nation on Artsworld National Galleries of Scotland Arichermix WE BEGAN EXCLUSIVE LIVE COVERAGE OF ENGLANDS HOME TESTS THIS SUMMER, STARTING WITH THE SRI LANKAN TOUR.
ARTSWORLD FORMALLY BECAME PART OF OUR FAMILY OF CHANNELS, WHICH WILL ENRICH THE QUALITY OF OUR ARTS PROGRAMMING.
Must see TV - } I LIKE WATCHING DISNEY, TROUBLE AND As the competition intensifies from new platforms and new Premiership to the UEFA Champions League, but theres a lot MOVIES.
SKYS GOT A LOT OF GREAT service providers, Sky has one aim: to maintain its leading more to Sky Sports than football.
Its now the home of English COMEDY KINDS OF SHOWS, AND ONES position in home entertainment.
npower Test cricket, Guinness Premiership and Heineken Cup ON DANCING.
rugby and an array of equestrian events, golf, darts, tennis and The number of channels available to our customers now stands the most prestigious date in the yachting calendar, the Americas at more than 500.
Thats not to say every viewer is going to watch Cup.
In all, Sky Sports carries some 40,000 hours of coverage a Tyra Macintosh every channel.
But we know that our subscribers appreciate the year backed up by the best analysts and commentators in the Sky customer breadth and depth of viewing choice across every genre, be it business.
news, documentaries, entertainment, movies or sport.
By offering the broadest collection of TV services and radio stations, The Sky Movies subscription channels and the pay-per-view subscription, pay-per-view and free-to-air channels, the digital service Sky Box Office screen more than 2,000 films every satellite platform is without parallel and is watched by one in year including the UK television premieres of movies such as every three homes in UK and Ireland.
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe and Pride and Prejudice.
But thats just for starters.
We also At a time when viewing of terrestrial general entertainment offer exclusive studio content, interviews, classic films from channels continues to decline, Sky One remains one of the UKs Hollywoods golden age and the best in arthouse cinema from most-watched digital channels by investing in the best US first-run around the world.
Clips, updates and background information content, such as 24 and The Simpsons and in innovative domestic are accessible via mobile phones and premium customers can commissions including The Match, Brainiac and the forthcoming download their choice of around 400 full-length movies via lavish reimaging of the classic sci-fi fantasy series, The Prisoner.
At the other end of the scale, Artsworld sets the pace in comprehensive cultural coverage of opera, dance, classical As viewing habits change so to do the way customers consume music, jazz, design, the visual arts, architecture, cinema, news.
Sky News remains the pioneering 24-hour news channel it literature and the theatre.
has always been, with its award-winning team of correspondents and expert commentators covering breaking news whenever and Sky now has five sports channels, two dedicated HD services, wherever it happens.
Broadcasting from our new purpose-built pay-per-view offerings and streamed programming for broadband news studios, Sky News is also now live 24 hours a day online internet and mobile devices.
Everybody knows Sky Sports for its and on video-compatible mobile phones.
comprehensive football coverage, ranging from the Barclays 15 } } WHENEVER WEVE HAD TO CONTACT SKY WEVE NEVER HAD ANY PROBLEMS GETTING THROUGH, AND THE PERSON ON THE OTHER END OF THE PHONE HAS ALWAYS SEEMED PRETTY CLUED-UP, COURTEOUS AND HELPFUL.
THATS ONE OF THE MAIN THINGS YOU LOOK FOR IN CUSTOMER SERVICE, BECAUSE IF YOU DO NEED TO RING THEM ITS USUALLY BECAUSE THERES SOME SORT OF PROBLEM AND YOU WANT TO GET IT RESOLVED QUICKLY.
Stephen Ellis Sky customer 16 } 90% 90% OF OUR CUSTOMERS RATE OUR SERVICE AS GOOD OR VERY GOOD.
1.2m calls WE DEAL WITH AROUND 1.2 MILLION CALLS A WEEK, AND THAT RISES TO OVER 1.6 MILLION IN THE LEAD-UP TO CHRISTMAS.
Service makes the difference } IT DOESNT MATTER HOW MANY Weve built our business on a deep desire to give our customers visits a week, but we now have 2,000 more customer service INSTALLATIONS YOU DO, YOULL what they want, and a true dedication to serving them well.
advisors, 600 new engineers, and a computer database that ALWAYS COME ACROSS SOMETHING When it comes to customer service we want to get it right first can cope with over 10 million customers and more than YOU HAVENT HAD TO DEAL WITH time, every time, 365 days a year.
two trillion separate pieces of data.
BEFORE I ONCE HAD TO ATTACH A DISH TO THE MAST OF A HOUSEBOAT, We see customer service as one of the mainstays of our success Our average customer satisfaction rating across all customer AND EVEN ABSEILED DOWN THE now and in the future.
Thats why managers of all levels interactions was approximately 90% over the past year the OUTSIDE OF MIDDLESBROUGH regularly set aside time to listen in at our contact centres, number of people saying our services are good or very good.
MOST ARENT AS and join our field engineers when theyre making home visits.
The 10% that didnt hit this mark were usually as a result DRAMATIC AS THAT, BUT WE GO THE EXTRA MILE FOR ALL OUR CUSTOMERS, Theres no substitute for direct feedback like that, and we are of some inflexibility in our processes, or a breakdown in WHEREVER AND WHOEVER THEY ARE.
constantly talking to our customers.
We regularly undertake communications between the contact centre and the engineers focus and research groups that canvas the views of people who in the field: the new system is especially designed to address are already Sky customers, as well as some who arent.
Francis Ayrton Sky engineer What were aiming for is a real relationship with our customers At the same time, having a fully-integrated system means that a genuine two-way dialogue rather than the one-way our contact centre staff can give customers better advice: the communication most viewers have with traditional TV.
Weve more we know about each individual customer, the more help upgraded our customer management systems, investing both we can give them on the sort of packages that will suit them in people and technology.
This project was completed in March best, and any new options available to them.
Were backing this 2006, and we now have a fully-integrated system that links our up by giving our customer service staff a lot more scope to use telephone contact centres with our 3,500 field engineers, who their initiative when dealing with customer requests from are connected via hand-held computers.
The result is that the giving a free movie to surprise and delight a loyal customer, customer gets a faster, more efficient and more synchronised to sending out a gift voucher to say sorry when weve got service on everything from installations, to repairs, to something wrong.
Its all about going the extra mile so that moving house.
every customer knows how important they are to us.
The upgrade also gives us a system with a lot more capacity, Its all part of the same basic philosophy: if choice, flexibility and the ability to cope both with developments in technology and innovation are the key to getting new customers, its great and the projected growth in our customer base.
We were service that will help us keep them.
already dealing with over a million calls and 60,000 home BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 17 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 } 93% awareness WITH 93% OF PEOPLE RECOGNISING THE SKY NAME, WE ARE KNOWN BY VIRTUALLY THE ENTIRE POPULATION.
SKY BROADBAND WAS LAUNCHED IN JULY 2006 WITH A NATIONWIDE MARKETING CAMPAIGN.
Leading marketing IN THE 2006 MANAGEMENT TODAY SURVEY, SKY WAS VOTED THE MOST ADMIRED COMPANY IN THE UK FOR THE QUALITY OF ITS MARKETING.
The strength of the brand } SKYS COMPETITORS ARE A BIT MORE The strength of the Sky brand continues to be a major factor in As the world of home entertainment and communications evolves LIMITED IN TERMS OF THE QUALITY AND the success of the Company, helping to drive both acquisition and and converges, the strength of the Sky brand will be instrumental CHOICE OF THEIR PROGRAMMING.
Research into the broadband sector prior to the IS MODERN, GOOD VALUE AND IT MAKES launch of Sky Broadband revealed that a strong determining factor LIFE EASY.
I GOT EXACTLY THE PRODUCT We have far greater brand awareness than any of our rivals, and is the strength of a companys brand.
In a sector with hundreds THAT I EXPECTED WHEN I SIGNED UP with 93% of people recognising the Sky name, we are known by of different companies, consumers want the reassurance of a well FOR IT ITS NEVER DISAPPOINTED ME virtually the entire population.
known brand, and they immediately place Sky alongside the other YET, AND FOR ME, ITS THE BEST major broadband providers.
Thanks to our consistent track record, CHOICE I COULD HAVE MADE.
Over the last couple of years our marketing has established Sky consumers are confident that Sky Broadband is going to be as the leader in entertainment.
Led by the successful what do a market-leading product delivered in the unique Sky style.
Martina Grubeck you want to watch?
campaign, 76% of our customers now rank Sky customer us first on this measure and four times as many potential Two years ago we embarked on a journey to establish Sky as the customers rate us as the leader in entertainment versus other nations number one entertainment choice, in a bid to attract both pay-TV providers.
new customers and establish a deeper and stronger relationship with current ones.
Weve come a long way now, and were seeing A further measure of brand strength can be found in the levels how the strength of our brand is helping to convince increasing of trust shown by our customers, and their willingness to numbers of households across the UK and Ireland that Sky will recommend us.
At 74% we have a higher level of trust than give them the best entertainment and the right technology for other pay-TV companies, and an incredible 96% of Sky the home of the future, and all from a company they know they customers would recommend us to their friends.
Sources: SPA, Hall & Partners, Outlook Research 18 } BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Carbon neutral IN MAY 2006 WE BECAME THE WORLDS FIRST MAJOR MEDIA COMPANY, AND ONE OF THE FIRST FTSE 100 BUSINESSES, TO BECOME FULLY CARBON NEUTRAL.
Energy initiatives TO ACHIEVE CARBON NEUTRAL STATUS 41,414 tonnes WE REDUCED OUR OVERALL ENERGY, INCREASED EFFICIENCY AND equiv CO offset PURCHASED CARBON OFFSETS IN TWO 2 RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECTS.
WE ALSO LAUNCHED THE BIGGER PICTURE IN ORDER TO BECOME CARBON NEUTRAL, INITIATIVE THAT HELPS COLLEAGUES, SKY CALCULATED ITS CARBON FOOTPRINT BUSINESS PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS FOR BSKYB AND EASYNET IN CONJUNCTION UNDERSTAND AND REDUCE THEIR OWN WITH THE EDINBURGH CENTRE FOR CARBON ENERGY IMPACTS.
Taking responsibility Few other brands hold such a unique and privileged place at Our efforts are making an impact closer to home than you may at the heart of peoples homes as Sky.
We recognise that with that first think.
We have reduced the power consumption of our Sky position comes responsibility to our customers, to society at boxes by half since they were first introduced.
The fact that we large, and to the physical environment.
have a presence in more than 8 million homes means this has contributed a great deal to our efforts.
We want to assist our We care about the issues our customers care about, and we view customers to make a difference, providing practical and inspiring it as our corporate responsibility to help address these concerns.
ways to become better informed and more progressive about This is not about pretending to do something for the sake of energy use.
giving subscribers and investors a warm and fuzzy feeling Sky is making a real and committed effort to make a positive difference.
Our corporate profile is evolving to reflect our growing commitments.
We are ranked in both FTSE4Good and the Our efforts are broad and multifaceted.
We are also proud to be the only broadcasting company in the world to appear in the Recognition Long-running programmes focus on using our unique profile as Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations index.
WERE IN THE FTSE4GOOD AND THE a broadcaster to inspire young people.
They range from Living DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES, for Sport, a project run in one in every seven schools in the UK, In addition to the environment, we are tackling areas that relate AND WERE PROUD TO BE THE ONLY which uses the power of sport to engage and inspire young directly to our operations as the leading provider of multichannel BROADCASTING COMPANY IN THE people who are at risk of dropping out of education, to our entertainment in the UK.
GLOBAL 100 MOST SUSTAINABLE involvement with Reach for the Sky, which offers young CORPORATIONS IN THE WORLD.
journalists a taste of what it is like to work in the media.
We know how important Skys parental control features are for families, and weve listened to the feedback we have received But corporations have a wider responsibility.
We know our on this and improved the service further on our satellite and customers care about the environment and that global warming is Sky services.
In addition, Sky was the first personal video becoming an increasingly important area of concern.
One of our recorder to be protected with a PIN number, and parents can now proudest achievements this year is to have become the first major restrict access to programmes based on ratings, remove channels media company and one of the first FTSE 100 to achieve carbon from the electronic programme guide, and control pre-watershed neutral status.
playback of programmes already recorded on Sky.
To become carbon neutral, we have assessed our emissions and We also work hard to make Sky as accessible as possible for worked to reduce them wherever possible.
Our subtitling, signing and audio description features include installing automatic lighting sensors in our buildings are highly-regarded, and theyre supported by our customer and purchasing power from renewable sources.
And during the last year weve worked with Scope and Age Concern to develop two new remote controls for older Going carbon neutral means that as well as reducing customers and those with disabilities.
the amount of energy we use in the first place, we off set our remaining, unavoidable emissions.
We have purchased carbon offsets in two renewable energy offset projects through The CarbonNeutral Company.
TAKING RESPONSIBILITY 20 The power of sport LIVING FOR SPORT IS ONE OF OUR FLAGSHIP COMMUNITY PROGRAMMES, WHICH USES SPORT TO INSPIRE YOUNG PEOPLE AT RISK OF DROPPING OUT OF SCHOOL.
WEVE ALSO HELPED TO FUND DAME KELLY HOLMES AS THE FIRST NATIONAL SCHOOLS SPORT CHAMPION, AND SHELL BE WORKING WITH LIVING FOR SPORT, AND VISITING SOME OF THE 300 SCHOOLS INVOLVED.
Inspiring young people THIS YEAR WE LAUNCHED A VIRTUAL NEWSROOM AN INTERACTIVE VERSION OF THE SKY NEWS STUDIOS THAT GIVES YOUNG PEOPLE EVERYWHERE A CHANCE TO GET REAL EXPERIENCE OF WORKING IN BROADCASTING.
THIS COMPLEMENTS OUR REACH FOR THE SKY PROGRAMME WHICH OFFERS YOUNG JOURNALISTS A TASTE OF WHAT ITS LIKE TO WORK IN THE MEDIA.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 21 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 13,344 employees WE NOW HAVE OVER 13,000 PEOPLE WORKING FOR US, MAINLY IN WEST LONDON AND SCOTLAND.
12th in UK SKY ROSE TO BECOME THE 12TH MOST PREFERRED EMPLOYER IN AN INDEPENDENT SURVEY OF 7,000 FINAL YEAR HUMANITIES STUDENTS IN UK UNIVERSITIES.
Being a responsible employer Skys success has relied on the quality of its people, and we have deliver our new strategy.
Despite all these changes, our level of one of the most talented and diverse teams in the industry.
Our recruitment remained steady at just over 3,000 new people last people have won awards for their contribution to the business year, but this will rise as we staff up our customer services and outstanding performances within their fields.
As Sky continues to diversify and grow as a Company, its change The 2006 employee survey shows that our people remain both and evolution make it an increasingly challenging and rewarding committed and motivated about working at Sky, with year on year place to work.
increases in the scores for employee engagement and advocacy for Sky as a place to work.
In the Financial Times Great Place to Work We need a team of people who can think quickly and come up with survey 73% of our people rated Sky as a great place to work, new ideas: people who can continuously improve our products and compared to 66% last year.
Another important measure of The Learning Zone SINCE WE LAUNCHED OUR ONLINE services and yet, at the same time, maintain an uncompromising employee engagement is their willingness to be active advocates for LEARNING ZONE IN OCTOBER 2004 commitment to the needs of our customers, now and in the future.
the company and its services.
In the latest Sky employee survey, OVER 4,000 EMPLOYEES HAVE SIGNED Were continuing to invest in our people to ensure they stay 84% of our people said they would recommend Skys products to UP, AND MORE THAN 11,000 SETS OF motivated, flexible and resilient.
MATERIALS HAVE BEEN DOWNLOADED OR BORROWED.
To do this, weve stepped up our employee development activities We organised almost 70,000 training days last year, ranging from across the whole Company.
We recognise how important it is for all HD training to performance management.
We also expanded the our people to be at the top of their game, and hence our extensive online learning zone, which allowed 4,000 employees to download investment in employee health and well-being programmes.
or borrow more than 11,000 resources on subjects ranging from Weve also developed clear goals and priorities and shared these customer service, to strategy and leadership.
The latter was backed throughout our organisation - to make maximum use of our up by management development workshops attended by more than energy and resources.
Building buy-in like this is one reason why weve been able to With customer focus so important for the future, we launched a evolve so successfully from a straightforward pay-TV operation to customer closeness programme for executives and key managers, a far more complex integrated media business.
Its also helped us and a new sales development centre, which develops and trials new to roll out new products like HD, Sky Broadband and Sky Mobile approaches to selling and interacting with customers, especially for TV, and integrate Easynet and its people into the existing Sky around 8,000 people who speak with customers on the phone or organisation quickly and efficiently.
We ran over 22,000 training days for our sales advisors last year, and over 17,000 for our field engineers.
At the same time, we reviewed 20 key Sky departments to make Alongside this, the Kaizen approach were now using in customer sure they have the right structure, technology and expertise to service means that our people are encouraged to use what they BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER 22 Whats Next?
WE HOSTED A SECOND WHATS NEXT?
EVENT FOR 500 OF OUR PEOPLE IN MARCH 2006, TO SHARE OUR VISION OF SKYS FUTURE.
THE EVENT WAS RECORDED AND PRESENTED TO ALL DEPARTMENTS AT SKY, GIVING EVERYONE THE CHANCE TO ASK Meet the Team QUESTIONS, AND UNDERSTAND WHAT WEVE CREATED A TEAM SKY OUR PLANS MEAN FOR THEIR TEAMS.
PROGRAMME TO RECOGNISE PEOPLE WHO ARE PARTICULARLY GOOD ROLE MODELS FOR OUR VALUES OF TUNEDIN, INVITING, IRREPRESSIBLE AND FUN.
Sky Sharesave Health and well-being OUR SHARESAVE SCHEME GIVES ALL OVER 3,000 PEOPLE ATTENDED OUR OUR PERMANENT EMPLOYEES THE LAST FEEL KARMA EVENT ON HEALTH OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE A STAKE IN AND WELL-BEING, WHICH INCLUDED SKY AND SHARE IN OUR SUCCESS BY SESSIONS ON ISSUES LIKE SLEEP, BUYING SHARES THROUGH A 3 OR 5 NUTRITION, STRESS, EXERCISE, AND YEAR SAVINGS SCHEME.
IVE WORKED FOR SKY FOR 11 YEARS learn from customers and from their own experience to spot External people survey % AND I ABSOLUTELY LOVE IT.
THERES A glitches in technology, products or services and work out fast, REAL SENSE OF LOYALTY FROM THE practical improvements.
06 73% COMPANY TO THE PEOPLE WHO WORK 66% 05 FOR SKY.
THE PERKS ARE GREAT, AND Another key factor for us is our ability to keep innovating, and this THE INCENTIVES FOR REALLY GOOD has been recognised in the Financial Times Best European Business IN THE FT GREAT PLACE TO WORK SURVEY EMPLOYEES RECOMMENDATION PERFORMANCE CAN BE FANTASTIC: Award for Innovation.
Inside the business the technology and OF SKY AS A PLACE TO WORK CLIMBED FROM 66% TO 73%.
ME AND MY TEAM HAVE HAD SOME products group works across the whole senior management team, UNFORGETTABLE DAYS OUT TOGETHER to ensure that Sky continues to roll out more new products faster THINGS WED NEVER OTHERWISE GET A CHANCE TO DO.
AND AT THE END OF and better.
And we draw talent from across the whole company to THE DAY I LOVE DOING WHAT I DO brainstorm new ideas.
HELPING PEOPLE, AND SOLVING THEIR PROBLEMS.
Weve used a number of different media to communicate Skys strategy to employees over the last year: there have been workshops, iPod and text messages, special pieces on the intranet, and face-toShirley Turnbull face presentations.
And at the same time weve shared great stories Sky employee with our people to celebrate our success, and look to the future.
It's always been exciting to work at Sky we want to build on that and make Sky a place that attracts the best people, and gives them the chance to develop both as people and professionals.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 23 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 } Board of Directors Chase Carey age 52 David Evans age 66 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Chase Carey was appointed as a Director David Evans was appointed as a Director of the Company on 13 February 2003. of the Company on 21 September 2001.
Mr Carey has been a Non-Executive Director In July 2006, Mr Evans joined the executive of News Corporation since 2002 and was team of RHI Entertainment RHI.
an Executive Director from 1996 until 2002.
Mr Evans was previously President and CEO Mr Carey is President and Chief Executive of Crown Media Holdings, Inc. Crown Officer CEO of The DIRECTV Group, Inc. and its predecessor company, Hallmark DIRECTV and serves on the Board of Yell Entertainment Networks, from 1 March Group plc.
Mr Carey previously served as 1999.
Prior to that, Mr Evans was President Co-Chief Operating Officer of News and CEO of Tele-Communications Corporation and as a Director and Co-Chief International, Inc. TINTA from January Operating Officer of Fox Entertainment 1998.
Mr Evans joined TINTA in September Group FEG.
Mr Carey has also held the 1997 as its President and Chief Operating positions of Chairman and CEO of Fox Officer, overseeing the day-to-day operations Television, Director of Star Group Limited of the company.
Prior to joining TINTA, Star, Director of NDS Group plc NDS from July 1996, Mr Evans was Executive Vice and Director of Gemstar-TV Guide President of News Corporation and President International, Inc. Gemstar.
and CEO of Sky Entertainment Services Latin America, LLC.
Jeremy Darroch age 44 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Nicholas Ferguson age 57 INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Jeremy Darroch was appointed as Chief Financial Officer CFO and a Director Nicholas Ferguson was appointed as of the Company on 16 August 2004. a Director of the Company on 15 June Mr Darroch joined Dixons Group plc 2004 and was appointed Chairman of the Dixons in January 2000 as Retail Remuneration Committee on 31 January Finance Director, rising to the position 2006.
Mr Ferguson is Chairman of SVG of Group Finance Director in February Capital, a publicly-quoted private equity 2002.
Prior to Dixons, Mr Darroch spent group, and was formerly Chairman of 12 years at Procter & Gamble in a variety Schroder Ventures.
He is also Chairman of roles in the UK and Europe, latterly as of the Courtauld Institute of Art and the European Finance Director for its Health Institute of Philanthropy.
In February 2006 Mr Darroch was appointed a Non-Executive Andrew Higginson age 49 INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR director of Marks & Spencer Group plc.
Mr Darroch is a member of the 100 Group Andrew Higginson was appointed as a of Finance Directors.
Director of the Company on 1 September 2004.
Mr Higginson is Finance and David DeVoe age 59 Strategy Director of Tesco plc Tesco.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Mr Higginson was appointed to the Board David DeVoe was appointed as a Director of Tesco in 1997, having previously been of the Company on 15 December 1994. the Group Finance Director of the Burton Mr DeVoe has been an Executive Director Group plc.
Mr Higginson is a member of of News Corporation since October 1990, the 100 Group of Finance Directors and Senior Executive Vice President of News Chairman of Tesco Personal Finance.
Corporation since January 1996, CFO and Finance Director of News Corporation since Allan Leighton age 53 INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR October 1990 and Deputy Finance Director from May 1985 to September 1990.
Allan Leighton was appointed as a Director Mr DeVoe has been a Director of News of the Company on 15 October 1999.
America International NAI since Mr Leighton joined ASDA Stores Limited as January 1991 and a Director of Star Group Marketing Director in March 1992. since July 1993.
Mr DeVoe has also been In September 1996 he was appointed Chief a Director of FEG since 1991 and a Senior Executive and in November 1999 he was Executive Vice President and CFO since appointed President and CEO of Wal-Mart August 1998.
Mr DeVoe has been a Director Europe.
Mr Leighton resigned all of these of NDS since 1996 and a Director of positions in September 2000.
Mr Leighton Gemstar since June 2001. is Non-Executive Chairman of BHS Limited and Royal Mail Group plc and Deputy Chairman of Selfridges & Co Limited.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 24 James Murdoch age 33 Gail Rebuck CBE age 54 Arthur Siskind age 67 Lord Wilson of Dinton GCB age 63 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR James Murdoch was appointed as a Gail Rebuck was appointed as a Director Arthur Siskind was appointed as a Director Lord Wilson of Dinton was appointed as a Director of the Company on 13 February of the Company on 8 November 2002. of the Company on 19 November 1991.
Director of the Company on 13 February 2003 and CEO with effect from 4 November Ms Rebuck is Chairman and Chief Executive Mr Siskind has been the Senior Advisor to 2003.
Until Mr Murdochs appointment as of The Random House Group Limited the Chairman of News Corporation since Director of Xansa plc since April 2003 and CEO, he was Chairman and CEO of Star Random House, one of the UKs leading January 2005.
Mr Siskind has been an will become Non-Executive Chairman of from May 2000.
Prior to 4 November 2003, trade publishing companies.
In 1982, Executive Director of News Corporation C. Hoare and Co, Bankers, in October 2006.
Mr Murdoch was Executive Vice President Ms Rebuck became a founder Director of since 1991 and was Group General Counsel Lord Wilson entered the Civil Service as an of News Corporation and a member of Century Publishing Century.
Century of News Corporation from March 1991 assistant principal in the Board of Trade in News Corporations Board of Directors merged with Hutchinson in 1985 and in until December 2004.
Lord Wilson subsequently served in a and Executive Committee and served on 1989 Century Hutchinson was acquired Senior Executive Vice President of News number of departments, including 12 years the Board of NDS.
Mr Murdoch serves by Random House Inc.
In 1991, Ms Rebuck Corporation from January 1996 until in the Department of Energy, where his on the Board of YankeeNets and the Board was appointed Chairman and Chief December 2004 and an Executive Vice responsibilities included nuclear power of Trustees of the Harvard Lampoon.
Ms Rebuck President of News Corporation from policy, the privatisation of Britoil, Mr Murdoch attended Harvard University.
was a Trustee of the Institute for Public February 1991 until January 1996. personnel and finance.
Lord Wilson headed James Murdoch is the son of Rupert Murdoch.
Policy Research from 1993 to 2003 and Mr Siskind has been a Director of NDS the Economic Secretariat in the Cabinet was for three years a member of the since 1996 and was a Director of NAI from Office under Mrs Thatcher from 1987 to Rupert Murdoch age 75 Governments Creative Industries Task 1991 until January 2005 and a Director 1990 and, after two years in the Treasury, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND CHAIRMAN Force.
Ms Rebuck is on the Board of The of Star from 1993 until January 2005. was appointed Permanent Secretary of the Rupert Murdoch was appointed as a Work Foundation, a member of the Court Mr Siskind was Senior Executive Vice Department of the Environment in 1992.
Director of the Company in November of the University of Sussex, on the Advisory President and General Counsel of FEG Lord Wilson became Permanent Under 1990, when he founded British Sky Board of the Cambridge Judge Institute, from August 1998 until January 2005 and Secretary of the Home Office in 1994 Broadcasting, and was appointed and the Council of the Royal College of Art.
a Director from August 1998 to March 2005. and Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of Chairman in June 1999.
Mr Murdoch has Ms Rebuck was awarded a CBE in the Mr Siskind has been an Adjunct Professor the Home Civil Service in January 1998. been CEO of News Corporation since 1979, 2000 New Years Honours List.
of Law at the Georgetown Law Centre since Since his retirement in September 2002, Chairman since 1991 and was Managing 2005.
Mr Siskind has been a member of Lord Wilson has been Master of Emmanuel Director from 1979 until November 2004. the Bar of the State of New York since 1962.
Lord Wilson was Lord Rothschild age 70 Mr Murdoch has also served as a Director made a peer in November 2002.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND DEPUTY CHAIRMAN of FEG and its predecessor companies Lord St John of Fawsley age 77 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR since 1985, Chairman since 1992 and CEO Lord Rothschild was appointed as a Alternate Directors since 1995.
In addition, Mr Murdoch has Director, Deputy Chairman and Senior Lord St John of Fawsley was appointed as Rupert Murdoch, David DeVoe, Arthur been a Director of Star since 1993, Gemstar Independent Non-Executive Director of a Director of the Company on 20 November Siskind and Chase Carey have appointed since 2001 and DIRECTV since 2003. the Company on 17 November 2003.
Lord St John was a Director of the each of the others to act as their Lord Rothschild is Chairman of RIT Capital N. M. Rothschild Trust from 1990 to 1998.
Alternate Director and, in addition, Jacques Nasser age 58 Partners plc and Five Arrows Limited.
Lord St John is Chairman of the Royal Fine each has appointed Leslie Hinton to INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR He co-founded Global Asset Management Art Commission Trust and was Chairman act as his Alternate Director.
David Evans Jacques Nasser was appointed as a Director and J Rothschild Assurance, the life of the Royal Fine Art Commission from has appointed Allan Leighton as his of the Company on 8 November 2002. assurance company now part of St Jamess 1985 to 2000.
He is Grand Bailiff and Alternate Director.
Mr Nasser is a Senior Partner of One Equity Place Capital plc.
From Oxford University Head of Order of St Lazarus of England and Leslie Hinton age 62 Partners.
In addition, Mr Nasser serves Lord Rothschild joined the family bank, Wales.
Lord St John is a member of the ALTERNATE DIRECTOR on the Board of Quintiles Transnational N. M. Rothschild & Sons, and subsequently Privy Council and holds the Order of Merit Corporation, Brambles Industries, BHP ran the corporate finance department of the Italian Republic.
Lord St John has Leslie Hinton served as a Director of the Billiton and the International Advisory and became chairman of the executive held the offices of Minister of State for Company from 15 October 1999 until 13 Board of Allianz A. G.. Mr Nasser served as committee, before leaving N. M. Rothschild Education, Minister of State for the Arts, February 2003.
Following his resignation a Member of the Board of Directors, and as & Sons in 1980 to develop his interests Leader of the House of Commons and as a Director, Mr Hinton was immediately President and CEO of Ford Motor Company in the financial sector.
In addition to his Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.
appointed as an Alternate Director of the from 1998 to 2001.
Mr Nasser has received career in the world of finance, he has been Lord St John has also been Master of Company.
Mr Hinton was appointed an honorary Doctorate of Technology involved in philanthropy and public service.
President of Murdoch Magazines in the and graduated in Business from the RMIT Lord St John is a regular commentator US in 1990, two years later becoming University of Melbourne, Australia.
Because on television and radio.
Lord St John has CEO of Fox Television Stations and in of Mr Nassers significant contributions decided not to seek re-election at this 1995 he became Executive Chairman of to the wellbeing of humanity and to the years AGM and will retire from the Board.
Mr Hinton country of Lebanon, he has received the is a member of News Corporations Order of the Cedar.
In recognition of Executive Committee.
In 1996 he joined Mr Nassers work for Australian industry, the board of the Press Association in as an adviser to government, and for Britain.
He has been Chairman of the education in the area of technology, he newspaper and magazine publishing has been awarded an Order of Australia industrys code of Practice Committee and a Centenary Medal.
Mr Hinton was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director of Johnston Press plc in March 2005.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 25 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Summary Directors Report Activities Charitable contributions and community and environmental activities The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers statement, operating review and the The Groups fourth Corporate Responsibility Review will be published later this year, and financial review at the front of this document, report on the principal activities of the will provide further information on the Groups commitment to corporate responsibility, Group, its financial and operating performance during the year and the future including community and environmental activities see www.
Directors Results and dividends The names and biographical details of the Directors of the Company are given on pages The profit for the year ended 30 June 2006 was 551 million 2005: 578 million.
Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2006 of 6.70 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 5.50 pence paid to Chase Carey, Nicholas Ferguson, James Murdoch and Jacques Nasser retire from the Board shareholders on 25 April 2006, will make a total dividend for the year of 12.20 pence by rotation, and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the 2006 AGM.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the final John of Fawsley will also retire from the Board by rotation at the 2006 AGM but will not dividend will be paid on 17 November 2006 to shareholders appearing on the register at be seeking re-election by the shareholders.
Arthur Siskind, David DeVoe and Rupert the close of business on 27 October 2006.
Murdoch are subject to annual reappointment in accordance with requirement A.
7.2 of the Combined Code, as they have served as Non-Executive Directors for longer than 9 years.
Share capital On 27 July 2006, the following companies, or their subsidiary undertakings, held more Annual General Meeting than 3% of the Companys share capital: The notice convening the AGM to be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London, SW1P 3EE on 3 November 2006 at 11.30am News UK Nominees Limited a subsidiary of can be found in a separate notice accompanying the Annual Review.
News Corporation 38.36% Franklin Resources, Inc. and its affiliates 10.00% By order of the Board, Janus Capital Management LLC 3.86% Dave Gormley Barclays PLC 3.85% Company Secretary Brandes Investment Partners L. P. 3.12% The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 3.10% FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 3.06% Harris Associates L. P. 3.03% Corporate governance The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance in its management of the affairs of the Group and when accounting to shareholders.
Throughout the year ended 30 June 2006, the Company has been in compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, apart from the requirement for Directors who have served more than nine years being subject to annual re-election.
The Company can confirm that following the 2006 AGM the Company will in future comply with this aspect of the Code.
The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
For the benefit of private investors, the Company produces this short-form Annual Review which contains the information believed to be of most interest to them.
A Summary Report on Directors Remuneration is on pages 27 to 32.
SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT 26 Summary Report on Directors Remuneration 1.
Remuneration Committee Executive Directors are not allowed to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company, 1.1 Role of the Remuneration Committee and terms of reference but are allowed to take up one external non-executive FTSE 100 appointment and retain The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for recommendations to any payments in respect of this appointment.
the Board regarding: In formulating its remuneration policy, the Committee is keen to understand shareholders the Companys policy on remuneration for Board Directors and other Senior views on executive remuneration.
From time to time the Company holds consultation Executives of the Group who report directly to the CEO.
In the latter case, decisions meetings with a range of institutional investors, concerning aspects of the Committees shall be the subject of recommendation to the Committee by the CEO: policy, and has taken their advice into account in arriving at remuneration decisions.
the design and implementation of incentive compensation arrangements including share-based schemes: and The Committee believes that performance share awards continue to be the best longremuneration packages for Executive Directors of the Company, including basic salary, term incentive vehicle for Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
The Committee performance-based short and long-term incentives, pensions and other benefits.
also believes that the Groups historically strong operational performance has led the market to expect continued excellence in operational delivery.
Accordingly, 70% of the The Committee sets the performance targets applicable to incentive compensation Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP vests based on operational performance, while 30% arrangements.
As part of this process, it seeks to ensure that such packages provide vests based on Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to the constituents of the FTSE employees with appropriate incentives to perform, reflective of their positions and roles 100.
The operational performance conditions chosen include earnings per share EPS, within the Group, and that the employees are, in a fair and reasonable manner, free cash flow per share FCF and Direct to Home DTH subscriber growth.
rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
Payments or benefits offered to employees in excess of 250,000 which do not form part of an As detailed in last years Annual Report, in 2005 the Company implemented an alignment employees expected remuneration or benefits require the approval of the Committee.
programme to convert outstanding historical share awards to the new set of measures being used going forward.
All of the Companys long-term incentives are now aligned in The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys corporate three important ways: time horizon: denomination: and performance measurement.
The Committee met five times during the year and is LTIP programmes are now measured over three years, they are all based on performance scheduled to meet not less than twice during a year.
shares, and use the performance measures described above for the LTIP.
1.2 Membership of the Committee The Committee also recognises that the interactions between different areas of the The Committee comprised the following independent Non-Executive Directors during business in creating long-term shareholder value are complex.
Therefore, rather than the year ended 30 June 2006: Senior Executives being incentivised primarily through measures relevant to their own business area, the remuneration of Senior Executives now emphasises a smaller David Evans number of Group-wide goals, in order to maximise the benefits of teamwork and Nicholas Ferguson Chairman collaboration across the Group.
Jacques Nasser The Executive Directors of the Company are employed on twelve-month rolling contracts.
Jacques Nasser resigned as Chairman and Nicholas Ferguson assumed the role in January 2006.
There have been no other changes to the membership of the Committee 3.
Elements of Executive Director remuneration during the year.
3.1 Remuneration Mix The Executive Directors and Senior Executives total direct compensation consists of During the year, the Committee sought the advice of James Murdoch, the CEO, on salary, annual bonus, long-term incentives, pensions and other benefits.
This reward matters relating to the Executive Directors and Senior Executives who report to him structure is regularly reviewed by the Committee to ensure that it continues to support and advice from the Director of People and Organisational Development.
The Committee the Groups objectives.
was supported by the Company Secretary, and the finance function.
The CEO was not present when matters affecting his remuneration were considered.
The Chairman, Rupert Murdoch, did not attend any Remuneration Committee meetings during the year.
Remuneration policy The Committees reward policy reflects its aim to align Executive Directors remuneration with shareholders interests and to engage world-class executive talent for the benefit of the Group.
The main principles of the policy are that: Total rewards should be set at appropriate levels to reflect the competitive market in which the Group operates The majority of the total reward should be linked to the achievement of demanding performance targets Appropriate benchmarks are used when reviewing the salaries of the Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
The Company uses a subset of the FTSE 100 as its major benchmark.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 27 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Summary Report on Directors Remuneration continued Overview of current remuneration elements for executives, including Executive Directors Element Objective Performance Period Performance Conditions Base salary Reflects the market value of the position, as well Not applicable Reviewed annually on the basis of external market as the skills and experience of the incumbent benchmarking and or reference to internal positioning Annual bonus Rewards achievement of short-term objectives One year Cash award is subject to achievement of team and individual set during the year objectives.
For Executive Directors, award is wholly dependent on Group-level objectives earnings, cash and subscriber growth LTIP Rewards the achievements of long-term objectives Three years 30% of the award is subject to achievement of relative TSR set during the year of award performance vs. the FTSE 100 over three years.
70% of the award is subject to achievement of operating targets for EPS, FCF and DTH subscriber growth In the year ended 30 June 2006, approximately three quarters of Executive Directors 3.3 Annual bonus remuneration was performance-related, as shown by the chart below: Executive Directors and Senior Executives participate in a bonus scheme under which awards are made to participants at the discretion of the Committee.
For the Executive Directors the level of bonus paid depends purely on Group-wide operational On-target values of remuneration performance measures, specifically, operating profit, FCF and DTH subscriber growth.
For Senior Executives these operational performance measures contribute 75% of their bonus with the additional 25% attributable to the performance of that individuals performance area.
For the CEO, the maximum bonus that may be awarded is 200% of salary, and for on-target performance, he would receive 130% of salary, while for the CFO, these percentages are 160% and 110% respectively.
3.4 LTIP The Company operates an LTIP for Executive Directors and Senior Executives, under which awards may be made to any employee or full-time Director of the Group at the discretion of the Committee.
Awards under the scheme are made as a nil priced option.
Awards are not transferable or pensionable and are made over a number of shares in Salary the Company, determined by the Committee.
LTIP awards are satisfied using shares Annual bonus purchased in the market.
LTIP Design of LTIP plan Notes to chart: The LTIP has a structure tailored to the needs of the Company in which grants are made every year, but vesting occurs biennially, which is designed to reduce Executives Annual bonus valuation assumes on-target performance reliance on annual vesting of LTIP awards.
In the first year, an Executive is granted an LTIP valuation assumes annualised expected value, where expected value is award of shares that vests at the end of the three year performance cycle, subject to face value at the time of grant, discounted to reflect expected vesting for performance conditions.
In the second year, a further discretionary award of up to target performance.
100% of the year one award can be made.
This award vests at the same time as the first award.
While second year grants are linked to the previous year and therefore 3.2 Basic salary capped, the size of first year grants is determined by the Committee on the basis of The basic salary for each Executive Director and Senior Executive is determined by the a range of factors including internal, and external market benchmarks.
A number of Committee taking account the recommendations of the CEO other than in respect of his shares are awarded and therefore values in relation to salary may vary with share own salary and information provided from external sources relative to the industry price movements.
sectors in which the Group operates.
Salaries for the CEO and CFO are periodically benchmarked against a subset of the FTSE 100 companies.
Performance Conditions for LTIP plan The awards vest, in full or in part, dependent on the satisfaction of specified performance targets.
Measurements of the extent to which performance targets have been met are reviewed by the Committee at the date of vesting of each award.
As explained in section 2 Remuneration Policy, vesting is based partly on relative TSR and partly on operational measures.
SUMMARY REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 28 TSR Performance 4.3 Sharesave Scheme 30% of the award vests dependent on TSR performance over the three year The Sharesave Scheme is open to all UK Irish employees, including Executive Directors.
performance period, relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100 at the time of grant.
Options are normally exercisable after either three, five or seven years from the date of If the Companys TSR performance is below median, the award lapses with no vesting.
The price at which options are offered is not less than 80% of the middle-market For median performance, one third of the TSR element of the award vests.
For price on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of invitation.
It is the policy of performance in the upper quartile, the whole award vests.
For performance between the Group to make an invitation to employees to participate in the scheme following median and upper quartile, vesting is on a straight-line basis, as shown in the chart the announcement of the year end results.
Pensions TSR Vesting Schedule The Group provides pensions to eligible employees through the BSkyB Pension Plan Pension Plan, which is a defined contribution plan.
Employees contribute a 35 minimum of 4% of pensionable salary into the Pension Plan each year and the Group 30 matches this with a contribution of 8% of pensionable salary.
25 Until 5 April 2006 for those Executives whose pensionable salary was restricted by the 20 cap on pensionable earnings introduced in 1989, employee and employer pension contributions may have been restricted.
In such cases, a cash supplement was paid to 15 the Executive equal to the shortfall in the 8% employer contribution rate.
10 The Company has reviewed its policy following changes to the tax regime for pensions.
5 Since 6 April 2006, contributions on full salary are being paid into the Pension Plan by 0 the Company and by Executives.
This replaces the use of cash supplements, allows for a 25% 50% 75% 100% consistent approach between Executives and provides a cost saving to the Company TSR Performance Percentile rank vs. FTSE 100 since it involves a reduction in National Insurance contributions.
TSR calculations are conducted independently by New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, Where an Executives pension benefits might exceed his or her Lifetime Allowance, the employing a methodology which averages share prices over three months prior to Company will, however, offer an alternative to continued membership of the Pension grants and the three months prior to the end of the three year performance period.
Plan of a cash allowance equal to the employer pension contribution.
Other benefits 70% of the award is based on operational measures: Executive Directors are entitled to a company car, life assurance equal to two times base salary, increased to four times base salary when they become members of the EPS Pension Plan, and private medical insurance.
FCF Growth in DTH subscribers.
Other Share Plans The Committee introduced a policy that Executive Directors service agreements will 4.1 Management Long Term Incentive Plan Management LTIP contain a maximum notice period of one year.
The Committee will also consider, where The Company now operates a Management LTIP, which has replaced options granted appropriate to do so, reducing remuneration to a departing Director.
However, the under the Executive Share Option Schemes see below.
It is intended that selected Committee will consider such issues on a case by case basis and will consider the employees will participate in the Management LTIP, but this will not include any terms of employment of a departing Director.
A large proportion of each Executive Executive Directors or Senior Executives who participate in the LTIP.
In the past this plan Directors total direct remuneration is linked to performance and therefore will not be was open to only a small number of managers within the Group but there will be more payable to the extent that the relevant targets are not met.
Awards under this plan are made at the discretion of the CEO.
The Management LTIP mirrors the LTIP for Senior Executives and Executive Directors, with the same performance conditions.
Awards that are exercised under the Management LTIP can only be satisfied by the delivery of shares purchased in the market.
4.2 Executive Share Option Schemes Executive Schemes The Company operates Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes under Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC guidelines.
Executive Directors and Senior Executives who participate in the LTIP do not participate in the Executive Schemes.
It is the Committees intention that no further options will be granted to any employee of the Group during the year.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 29 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Percentage of award vesting Summary Report on Directors Remuneration continued 8.
Share interests The basic fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman, set by the The interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company during the Board of Directors, were 42,600 each for the financial year.
It is intended that in future year were: these will be increased on an annual basis by 5% or RPI, whichever is the greater, At 27 July At 30 June At 30 June unless the Board determines otherwise.
The basic fees payable to the Non-Executive Name of Director 2006 2006 2005 Directors for the year ending 30 June 2007 will increase to 44,700.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid an additional 5,000 per annum each, for membership of each of the David Evans 16,000 16,000 16,000 Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate Governance & Nicholas Ferguson 10,000 10,000 10,000 Nominations Committee.
The Chairmen of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Andrew Higginson 2,000 2,000 2,000 Remuneration Committee, and the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee and Lord Rothschild 100,000 100,000 100,000 the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director each receive an additional 10,000 per Lord St John of Fawsley 2,000 2,000 2,000 annum.
Each Non-Executive Director is engaged by the Company for an initial term of Lord Wilson of Dinton 486 486 486 three years.
Re-appointment for a further term is not automatic, but may be mutually agreed.
Non-Executive Directors service agreements do not contain a notice period.
Held in the form of 4,000 ADSs American Depository Share, one ADS is equivalent to four ordinary shares.
Performance graph The following graph shows the Companys performance measured by TSR to 30 June Lord Rothschild is also deemed to be interested in 2 million ordinary shares registered 2006.
This graph shows the growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding in the in the name of Bank of New York Nominees, as a result of being a director of RIT Capital Companys ordinary shares over five years, relative to three indices, which are Partners plc: and in 15,250 ordinary shares as a result of being a trustee of a Charitable considered to be the most relevant broad equity market indices for this purpose.
The graph Foundation where Lord Rothschild is not a beneficiary and in 3,500 ordinary shares of is included to meet a legislative requirement and is not directly relevant to the performance another Charitable Trust where again Lord Rothschild is not a beneficiary but is a Trustee.
criteria approved by shareholders for the Companys long-term incentive plans.
Except as disclosed in this report, no other Director held any interest in the share capital, Breakdown of shareholder return from 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2006 including options, of the Company, or of any subsidiary of the Company, during the year.
140 All interests at the date shown are beneficial and there have been no changes between 1 July 2006 and 27 July 2006.
At 30 June 2006, the ESOP was interested in 4,448,876 120 ordinary shares in which the Directors who are employees are deemed to be interested by 100 virtue of Section 324 of the Companies Act 1985.
At 27 July 2006, the ESOP was interested in 4,381,463 ordinary shares.
80 60 At 27 July 2006, 38.36% of the Companys shares are held by News UK Nominees Limited, a company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales which is an 40 indirect wholly owned subsidiary of News Corporation.
According to News Corporations Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended 31 March 2006 filed with the SEC 20 on 11 May 2006, as a result of Rupert Murdochs ability to appoint certain members of 0 the Board of Directors of the corporate trustee of the A. E. Harris Trust, which beneficially June 01 June 02 June 03 June 04 June 05 June 06 owns 2.8% of News Corporations Class A Common Stock and 30.0% of its Class B BSkyB FTSE 350 Media Common Stock, Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the shares FTSE 100 NYSE TMT beneficially owned by the A. E. Harris Trust.
Rupert Murdoch, however, disclaims any Source: Thomson Financial beneficial ownership of those shares.
Also, Rupert Murdoch beneficially owns an additional 0.8% of News Corporations Class A Common Stock and 1.1% of its Class B Common Stock.
Thus, Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate 3.5% of News Corporations Class A Common Stock and 31.1% of its Class B Common Stock.
During the year ended 30 June 2006, the share price traded within the range of 4.785 to 5.79 per share.
The middle-market closing price on the last working day of the financial year was 5.735.
SUMMARY REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 30 11.
Employer contributions of 43,835 2005: 36,555 were paid into the BSkyB Pension Plan.
Jeremy Darroch received a payment of 5,625 2005: 6,219 in relation to the shortfall in his pension arrangements.
Employer contributions of 34,290 2005: 26,949 were paid into the BSkyB Pension Plan.
LTIP Details of outstanding awards to Executive Directors under the LTIP are shown below: Number of shares under award At Granted Exercised Lapsed At Date from Name of 30 June during the during the during the 30 June Exercise Date of which Expiry Director 2005 year year year 2006 price award exercisable date James 450,000 450,000 n a 11.08.04 11.08.07 11.08.08 Murdoch 382,500 382,500 n a 08.11.05 11.08.07 11.08.08 Jeremy 250,000 250,000 n a 16.08.04 16.08.07 16.08.08 Darroch 212,500 212,500 n a 08.11.05 16.08.07 16.08.08 The awards took the form of nil-priced options and were not enhanced to meet the employers National Insurance obligations.
Notes: The performance conditions attaching to these awards are set out in section 3.4 LTIP.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 31 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Summary Report on Directors Remuneration continued 13.
Sharesave Scheme options Details of all outstanding options held under the Sharesave Scheme are shown below: Number of shares under options At Granted Exercised At Date from 30 June during the during the 30 June Exercise which Expiry Name of Director 2005 year year 2006 price exercisable date Jeremy Darroch 4,281 4,281 3.86 01.02.10 01.08.10 Options under the Companys Sharesave Scheme are not subject to performance conditions.
Signed on behalf of the Board Nicholas Ferguson Remuneration Committee Chairman 27 July 2006 SUMMARY REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 32 Summary Financial Statements Summary Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 30 June 2006 2006 2005 Notes m m Revenue 1 4,148 3,842 Operating expense 2 3,271 3,020 Operating profit 877 822 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 14 Investment income 52 29 Finance costs 143 87 Profit on disposal of joint venture 9 Profit before tax 798 787 Taxation 247 209 Profit for the year 551 578 Earnings per share in pence from profit for the year Basic 3 30.2p 30.2p Diluted 3 30.1p 30.2p Adjusted earnings per share in pence from profit for the year Basic 3 30.7p 28.2p Diluted 3 30.6p 28.2p Dividends per share in pence Final paid in respect of prior year 4 5.00p 3.25p Interim paid 4 5.50p 4.00p Final proposed for approval at the AGM 4 6.70p 5.00p Summary Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense for the year ended 30 June 2006 2006 2005 m m Profit for the year 551 578 Net gains losses recognised directly in equity Cash flow hedges 160 22 Tax on cash flow hedges 48 6 112 16 Amounts reclassified and reported in the Income Statement Cash flow hedges 106 4 Tax on cash flow hedges 32 1 74 3 Net losses not recognised in profit for the year 38 13 Total recognised income and expense for the year 513 565 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 33 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Summary Financial Statements continued Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2006 2006 2005 m m Non-current assets Goodwill 623 417 Intangible assets 218 202 Property, plant and equipment 519 335 Investments in joint ventures and associates 28 23 Available for sale investments 2 2 Deferred tax assets 100 105 Derivative financial assets 9 1,490 1,093 Current assets Inventories 324 321 Trade and other receivables 489 331 Short-term deposits 647 194 Cash and cash equivalents 816 503 Derivative financial assets 7 14 2,283 1,363 Total assets 3,773 2,456 Current liabilities Borrowings 163 Trade and other payables 1,247 1,031 Current tax liabilities 68 100 Provisions 6 13 Derivative financial liabilities 49 6 1,533 1,150 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 1,825 982 Other payables 66 25 Provisions 19 Derivative financial liabilities 209 112 2,119 1,119 Total liabilities 3,652 2,269 Shareholders equity 121 187 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 3,773 2,456 These summary financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors on 27 July 2006 and were signed on its behalf by: James Murdoch Jeremy Darroch Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34 Summary Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June 2006 2006 2005 m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 1,004 989 Interest received 43 28 Taxation paid 172 103 Net cash from operating activities 875 914 Cash flows from investing activities Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 7 12 Funding to joint ventures and associates 3 4 Repayments of funding from joint ventures and associates 1 8 Proceeds from the sale of a joint venture 14 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 169 149 Purchase of intangible assets 43 92 Proceeds from the sale of equity investments 1 Increase in short-term deposits 453 60 Purchase of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents purchased 209 Net cash used in investing activities 869 270 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of Guaranteed Notes 1,014 Proceeds from disposal of shares in Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP 13 4 Purchase of own shares for ESOP 17 14 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 408 416 Interest paid 105 91 Dividends paid to shareholders 191 138 Net cash from used in financing activities 306 655 Effect of foreign exchange rate movements 1 1 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 313 10 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 503 513 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 816 503 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 35 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Notes to the Summary Financial Statements 1.
Operating expense 2006 2005 m m Programming 1,599 1,635 Transmission and related functions 234 171 Marketing 622 527 Subscriber management 468 392 Administration 348 295 3,271 3,020 NOTES TO THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 36 3.
Earnings per share The weighted average number of shares for the year was: 2006 2005 Millions of shares Millions of shares Ordinary shares 1,830 1,917 ESOP trust ordinary shares 3 4 Basic shares 1,827 1,913 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 5 4 Diluted shares 1,832 1,917 Basic and diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit for the year into the weighted average number of shares for the year.
In order to provide a measure of underlying performance, management has chosen to present an adjusted profit for the year which excludes items that may distort comparability.
Such items arise from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
2006 2005 m m Reconciliation from profit for the year to adjusted profit for the year Profit for the year 551 578 Payment from ITV Digital liquidators 13 Profit on disposal of joint venture 9 Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 14 4 Tax effect of above items 4 5 Increase in estimate of recoverable tax assets in respect of prior years 17 Adjusted profit for the year 561 540 2006 2005 pence pence Earnings per share from profit for the year Basic 30.2p 30.2p Diluted 30.1p 30.2p Adjusted earnings per share from profit for the year Basic 30.7p 28.2p Diluted 30.6p 28.2p 4.
Dividends 2006 2005 m m Dividends declared and paid during the year 2004 Final dividend paid: 3.25p per ordinary share 63 2005 Interim dividend paid: 4.00p per ordinary share 77 2005 Final dividend paid: 5.00p per ordinary share 92 2006 Interim dividend paid: 5.50p per ordinary share 99 191 140 Dividends proposed after the balance sheet date and not recognised as a liability 2006 Final dividend proposed: 6.70p per ordinary share 120 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 37 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Summary Financial Statements These statements and all other forward-looking statements contained in this Annual The summary financial statements, summary Directors report and summary Review are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties remuneration report contained within this document are only a summary of the and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and information provided in the consolidated financial statements, Directors report and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied or forecast report on Directors remuneration contained within the Annual Report.
The information in the forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, the fact has been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies as set out in the Annual that we operate in a highly competitive environment, the effects of laws and government Report.
These summary reports do not contain sufficient information to allow as full an regulation upon our activities, our reliance on technology, which is subject to risk, change understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Group as would be provided by and development, failure of key suppliers, our ability to continue to obtain exclusive the Annual Report, which contains more detail.
A copy of the Annual Report can be rights to movies, sports events and other programming content, risks inherent in the obtained, free of charge, by writing to the Company Secretary at Grant Way, Isleworth, implementation of large-scale capital expenditure projects, our ability to continue to Middlesex, TW7 5QD or it can be downloaded from the Companys website at communicate and market our services effectively, and the risks associated with our www.
To elect to receive the Annual Report for future years, operation of digital television transmission in the United Kingdom UK and Republic write to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
The summary financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Information on some of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business are Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International Accounting Standards described in the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report for the year ended 30 June and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and its 2006.
Copies of the Annual Report are available from British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, committees as adopted for use in the European Union, the Companies Act 1985 and Article Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex, TW7 5QD or from our web site at www.
These are the Groups first summary financial statements since All forward-looking statements in this Annual Review are based on information known to us adopting IFRS, and the Group has elected 1 July 2004 as the date of transition to IFRS.
Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation publicly to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future Foward-looking Statements events or otherwise.
This Annual Review contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to our Use of measures not defined under IFRS financial condition, results of operations and business, and our strategy, plans and This Annual Review contains certain information on the Groups financial position, objectives.
These statements include, without limitation, those that express forecasts, operating results and cash flows that have been derived from measures calculated in expectations and projections with respect to the potential for growth of free-to-air and accordance with IFRS.
This information should not be read in isolation of the related pay television, fixed line telephony, broadband and bandwidth requirements, advertising IFRS measures.
growth, DTH subscriber growth, Multiroom, Sky and other services penetration, churn, DTH and other revenues, profitability and margin growth, cash flow generation, programming and other costs, subscriber acquisition costs and marketing expenditure, capital expenditure programmes and proposals for returning capital to shareholders.
A summary of certain non-GAAP measures included in this Annual Review is shown below: Non-GAAP measure Description Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted profit divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year Adjusted profit for the year Profit for the year adjusted to remove mark-to-market movements in derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting, exceptional items and any changes in the estimate of recoverable tax assets in respect of prior years ARPU Average Revenue Per User: the amount spent by the Groups residential subscribers in the quarter, divided by the average number of residential subscribers in the quarter, annualised EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation is calculated as operating profit before depreciation and amortisation or impariment of goodwill and intangible assets Free cash flow Cash generated from operations less net interest paid, taxation paid, purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets plus net proceeds from joint ventures and associates Gross margin Revenue less programming expenses as a proportion of revenue Gross Sky Bet revenue Gross stakes placed by customers on events taking place in the period and net customer losses in respect of casino, online roulette and similar interactive casino style games Net debt Cash, cash equivalents, short-term deposits, borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 38 Independent Auditors Statement to the members of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc We have examined the summary financial statements which comprise the summary Basis of opinion consolidated income statement, summary consolidated statement of recognised income We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The Auditors Statement on and expense, summary consolidated balance sheet, summary consolidated cash flow the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the statement and the related notes 1 to 4 together with the summary Directors report and United Kingdom.
Opinion This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with In our opinion, the summary financial statements are consistent with the full annual section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might accounts, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report of British Sky state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Broadcasting Group plc for the year ended 30 June 2006 and complies with the applicable auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys thereunder.
The auditors report on the companys annual accounts was unqualified.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in accordance with Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on London the consistency of the summary financial statements with the full annual accounts, 27 July 2006 the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations Notes: An auditors' examination does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, made thereunder.
We report whether the auditors opinion on the full annual accounts including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have occurred to the financial statement since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control was unqualified or qualified.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Review as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements summary financial statements.
differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 39 ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Shareholder Information Share price information Financial calendar A large print or spoken version of The Companys share price can be found on the Companys Results for the financial year ending 30 June 2007 will this Annual Review is available.
com corporate and is broadcast be published: If you would like to request a copy, on SkyText on the Sky News channel on page 145, BBC Ceefax Q1 November 2006 page 221 and on Channel 4 Teletext page 520, all under the Q2 February 2007 please contact 0870 566 3333 prefix BSkyB.
It also appears in the financial columns of the Q3 May 2007 textphone 0870 240 1910. national press.
Q4 August 2007 Shares on-line Companys registered office: Lloyds TSB Registrars provide a range of shareholder information Grant Way on-line.
Shareholders can access their shareholdings and find Isleworth advice on transferring shares and updating their details at Middlesex TW7 5QD www.
Telephone 0870 240 3000 ShareGift The Sky website Shareholders who only have a small number of shares whose The Sky website at www.
com details the Companys product value makes it uneconomic to sell them may wish to consider offering and provides a link to BSkyBs Corporate website where donating them to charity through ShareGift, the independent investor and media information can be accessed.
charity share donation scheme registered charity no.
Further information about ShareGift may be obtained from Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars or from ShareGift on 020 7337 0501 or at Lloyds TSB Registrars www.
There are no implications for capital gains tax The Causeway purposes no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is Worthing also possible to claim income tax relief.
West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone 0870 195 6600 Shareholder enquiries Overseas 44 121 415 7567 All administrative enquiries relating to shareholders, such as notification of change of address or the loss of a share certificate, American Depositary Receipts should be made to the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB The Company has an American Depositary Receipt ADR Registrars, whose address is given below.
The ADRs trade under the symbol BSY and each one is equivalent to four ordinary BSkyB shares.
The ADRs trade on Dividends the New York Stock Exchange.
Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into a UK bank or building society account with the tax voucher sent direct to For enquiries, please contact: their registered address.
Please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars for a dividend mandate form.
The Bank of New York Investor Services Dividend Reinvestment Plan P. O.
Box 11258 The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Church Street Station which enables shareholders to buy the Companys shares on New York, NY 10286-1258 the London stock market with their cash dividend.
Further Telephone US 1-888-BNY-ADRS information about the DRIP is available from Lloyds TSB Telephone International 1 212 815-3700 Registrars.
The helpline number is 0870 241 3018 from inside www.
Auditors Board of Directors Deloitte & Touche LLP Rupert Murdoch Chairman Hill House Lord Rothschild Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 1 Little New Street and Deputy Chairman London EC4A 3TR James Murdoch Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Darroch Chief Financial Officer Principal Bankers Chase Carey Royal Bank of Scotland David DeVoe St. Andrews Square David Evans Edinburgh EH2 2YB Nicholas Ferguson Remuneration Committee Chairman Andrew Higginson Solicitors Allan Leighton Audit Committee Chairman Herbert Smith LLP Jacques Nasser Exchange House Gail Rebuck Primrose Street Arthur Siskind London EC2A 2HS Lord St John of Fawsley Lord Wilson of Dinton Corporate Governance & Nominations Company registration number Committee Chairman 2247735 Company Secretary Dave Gormley SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 40 This report is produced on material which contains 50% recycled and fide-inked pulp from post-consumer waste.
The remaining 50% is made up of Forest Stewardship Council FSC virgin fibre and pulp.
Designed and produced by salterbaxter Printed by CTD British Sky Broadcasting Group plc GRANT WAY, ISLEWORTH, MIDDLESEX TW7 5QD, ENGLAND TELEPHONE 0870 240 3000 FACSIMILE 0870 240 3060 WWW.
