Notices 253 Limited Investec Limited Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa Registration number 1925 002833 06 Share code: INL ISIN: ZAE000040531 8 To re-elect Sir David Prosser, whose appointment as a Notice of Annual General Meeting of director terminates at the end of the Annual General Investec Limited Meetings of Investec plc and Investec Limited convened for 10 August 2006, as a director of Investec plc and Investec Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Investec Limited will be held at 15:00 SA time on Thursday, Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
10 August 2006, at the registered office of Investec Limited at 100 Grayston Drive, Sandown, Sandton 2196, South Africa to For brief biographical details of the directors to be re-elected, transact the following business: please refer to the Annual Report of Investec plc Investec Limited.
Common business: Investec plc and Investec Limited To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without Ordinary Business: Investec Limited modification, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec plc To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without and Investec Limited: modification, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec Limited: 1 To re-elect Bernard Kantor as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the 9 To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2006 together with the reports of the directors of Investec Limited and of 2 To re-elect Donn Edward Jowell as a director of Investec plc the auditors of Investec Limited.
and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec 10 To determine, ratify and approve the remuneration of the Limited.
directors of Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2006.
3 To re-elect Hugh Sidney Herman as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of 11 To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited on the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec the ordinary shares in Investec Limited for the 6 six month Limited.
4 To re-elect Ian Robert Kantor as a director of Investec plc 12 To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited on and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the dividend access South African resident SA DAS the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec redeemable preference share for the 6 six month period Limited.
5 To re-elect Peter Richard Suter Thomas as a director of 13 Subject to the passing of Resolution No.
14 and Resolution Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the No.
34 to declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares in provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2006 of an Investec Limited.
amount equal to that recommended by the directors of Investec Limited.
6 To re-elect Sam Ellis Abrahams as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of 14 Subject to the passing of Resolution No.
13 and Resolution the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec No.
34, to declare a final dividend on the SA DAS Limited.
redeemable preference share of Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2006 of an amount equal to that 7 To re-elect Stephen Koseff as a director of Investec plc and recommended by the directors of Investec Limited.
Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Notices 254 15 To re-appoint Ernst & Young Chartered Accountants SA of Resolved that: Ernst & Young House, Wanderers Office Park, 52 Corlett Drive, Illovo, 2196 PO Box 2322, Johannesburg, 2000 as A unless and until such date that Special Resolution No.
2 auditors of Investec Limited to hold office until the becomes effective, 800 000 eight hundred thousand conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec class A variable rate compulsorily convertible nonLimited to be held in 2007 and to authorise the directors of cumulative preference shares Class A Preference Investec Limited to fix their remuneration.
Shares of ZAR0.001 each being 10% ten per cent of the unissued Class A Preference Shares in the 16 To re-appoint KPMG Inc. of 85 Empire Road, Parktown, authorised share capital of Investec Limited: 2193 Private Bag 9, Parkview, 2122 as auditors of Investec Limited to hold office until the conclusion of the Annual or General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2007 and to authorise the directors of Investec Limited to fix their B from the date on which Special Resolution No.
becomes effective, 4 000 000 four million Class A Preference Shares of ZAR0.0002 each being 10% ten Special Business: Investec Limited per cent of the unissued Class A Preference Shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following ordinary and special resolutions of be and are hereby placed under the control of the directors Investec Limited: of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of Section 221 of the South African Companies Act, No 61 of 1973, as 17 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited: Placing 10% of the amended, the SA Act who are authorised to allot and unissued ordinary shares under the control of the issue the same at their discretion until the next Annual Directors General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2007, subject to the provisions of the SA Act, the South African Resolved that: Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, and the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited.
A unless and until such date that Special Resolution No.
2 becomes effective, 1 150 047 one million one hundred 19 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited: Placing the and fifty thousand and forty seven ordinary shares of remaining unissued shares under the control of the ZAR0.001 each being 10% ten per cent of the Directors unissued ordinary shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited: Resolved that: or - all the unissued shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, excluding the ordinary shares and the B from the date on which Special Resolution No.
2 class A variable rate compulsorily convertible nonbecomes effective, 5 750 235 five million seven hundred cumulative preference shares, be and are hereby placed and fifty thousand and two hundred and thirty five under the control of the directors of Investec Limited as ordinary shares of ZAR0.0002 each being 10% ten per a general authority in terms of Section 221 of the South cent of the unissued ordinary shares in the authorised African Companies Act, No 61 of 1973, as amended, share capital of Investec Limited: the SA Act who are authorised to allot and issue the same at their discretion until the next Annual General be and are hereby placed under the control of the directors Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2007, subject of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of Section to the provisions of the SA Act, the South African Banks 221 of the South African Companies Act, No 61 of 1973, as Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, and the Listings amended, the SA Act who are authorised to allot and Requirements of the JSE Limited.
issue the same at their discretion until the next Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2007, 20 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited: Directors' authority subject to the provisions of the SA Act, the South African to allot and issue ordinary shares for cash Banks Act, No.
Resolved that: 18 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited: Placing 10% of the - subject to the passing of Resolution No.
17, the Listings unissued class A variable rate compulsorily convertible Requirements of the JSE Limited, the South African non-cumulative preference shares under the control of the Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, and the South Directors Africa Companies Act, No.
61 of 1973, as amended, the 255 directors of Investec Limited be and they are hereby In order for Resolution No.
20 to be passed, a 75% seventy authorised to allot and issue: five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of A unless and until such date that Special Resolution No.
2 Investec Limited must be cast in favour of Resolution No.
20. becomes effective, 1 150 047 one million one hundred 21 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited: Directors' and fifty thousand and forty seven ordinary shares of authority to allot and issue class A variable rate ZAR0.001 each: compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares for cash or Resolved that: B from the date on which Special Resolution No.
2 becomes effective, 5 750 235 five million seven hundred - subject to the passing of Resolution No.
18, the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited, the South African and fifty thousand and two hundred and thirty five Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, and the South ordinary shares of ZAR0.0002 each: African Companies Act, No.
61 of 1973, as amended, the directors of Investec Limited be and they are for cash as and when suitable situations arise, subject to the hereby authorised to allot and issue: following specific limitations as required by the Listing Requirements of the JSE Limited: A unless and until such date that Special Resolution No.
2 becomes effective, 800 000 eight hundred thousand i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the class A variable rate compulsorily convertible nondate of the next Annual General Meeting of the cumulative preference shares Class A Preference Shares of ZAR0.001 each being 10% ten per cent company or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen of the unissued Class A Preference Shares in the months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of authorised share capital of Investec Limited: Investec Limited convened for 10 August 2006: or ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the impact on net asset value and earnings per ordinary B from the date on which Special Resolution No.
2 share, will be published at the time of an issue becomes effective, 4 000 000 four million Class A representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one Preference Shares of ZAR0.0002 each being 10% ten financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number per cent of the unissued Class A Preference Shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, of ordinary shares in issue prior to such issue: for cash as and when suitable situations arise, subject to the iii the issue in the aggregate in any one financial year will following specific limitations as required by the Listing not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number of Requirements of the JSE Limited: ordinary shares in issue, including instruments which are compulsorily convertible: i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue company or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen of ordinary shares may be made in terms of this months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 10 August 2006: authority, the maximum discount permitted will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted average traded price of ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the ordinary shares in question as determined over the the impact on net asset value and earnings per Class 30 thirty days prior to the date that the price of the A Preference Share, will be published at the time of issue is determined or agreed by the directors of an issue representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 Investec Limited: and one financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number of Class A Preference Shares in issue prior to v the equity securities shares must be issued to public such issue: shareholders and not to related parties.
iii the issue in the aggregate in any 1 one financial year will not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number If Resolution No.
37 are both passed, of Class A Preference Shares in issue, including the directors will have authority to allot shares for cash other instruments which are compulsorily convertible: than by way of rights in respect of both Investec Limited and Investec plc up to the limits specified in those respective iv in determining the price at which an allotment and Resolutions.
In such circumstances, the directors confirm issue of Class A Preference Shares may be made in that, as and when they exercise such authorities, they intend terms of this authority, the maximum discount to comply with the relevant guidelines of the Association of permitted will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted British Insurers.
average traded price of the Class A Preference Notices 256 Shares in question as determined over the 30 thirty 4.2.
2 if a Participant has an entitlement to Scheme days prior to the date that the price of the issue is Securities in respect of which the Release Date or determined or agreed by the directors of Investec Release Dates have passed, which number is less Limited: and than 400 four hundred, he will be obliged to resell his Scheme Securities to the Trust at the price as v the equity securities shares must be issued to public determined in 4.2.
1 above as at the relevant date.
shareholders and not to related parties.
The purpose of Resolution 22 is to bring the provisions of If Resolution No.
21 is passed, the directors will have the The Investec Limited Security Purchase Scheme 2003 authority to allot Class A Preference Shares for cash Trust in respect of the vesting of unvested portions of other than by way of rights in respect of Investec Limited Scheme Securities on, inter alia, death and retirement, in up to the limits specified in Resolution No.
21. line with the other scheme trusts within Investec Limited.
In order for Resolution No.
21 to be passed, a 75% 23 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited:Amendments to seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members The Investec Limited Security Purchase Scheme 2003 present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Trust Deed Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in favour of Resolution No.
Resolved that: 22 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited :Amendments to - in terms of clause 15.1.
2. of the The Investec Limited The Investec Limited Security Purchase Scheme 2003 Security Purchase Scheme 2003 Trust Deed the Trust Deed Scheme, the provisions of Appendix 1 to the Scheme being the Rules Applicable to the Purchase Resolved that: Scheme be amended such that clause 6.3 be replaced in its entirety with the following new provision: - in terms of clause 15.1.
"2. of the The Investec Limited 6.3 Release Dates of the Scheme Securities referred Security Purchase Scheme 2003 Trust Deed the to in 6.2. shall apply to all Participants including Scheme, the provisions of clause 4 of Appendix 1 those who become Participants after the date of to the Scheme being the provisions in the Rules the initial Offer under the Scheme, save that if a Applicable to the Purchase Scheme relating to Participant becomes a Participant after the date consequences of early termination of employment of the initial Offer or after any of the Release be amended such that clause 4.2. thereof be replaced Dates, the Scheme Securities which would have in its entirety with the following new provision: been Released on such prior Release Dates will be accumulated for Release on the last of such ""4.2 Participants to whom 4.1 applies shall have the Release Dates being the date envisaged in 6.2."
7. following rights and obligations - The purpose of Resolution 23 is to ensure the equality of 4.2.
1 the Participant is obliged to resell to the Trust the treatment between Participants regardless of when same Scheme Securities in respect of which the Release become Participants in the Scheme.
Date or Release Dates have not passed.
To the extent that the Release Date has passed in respect of 24 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited:Amendments to at least 400 four hundred Scheme Securities a The Investec Limited Security Purchase Scheme 2003 Participant may offer such Scheme Securities to other Trust Deed Participants.
If a Participant does not wish to offer such Scheme Securities to other Participants or a sale Resolved that: in respect thereof is not achieved within 30 thirty days of an event referred to in 4.1.
2. of the The Investec Limited the Participant will be obliged to resell to the Trust Security Purchase Scheme 2003 Trust Deed the those Scheme Securities.
"Scheme, the provisions of the Schedule of Interpretation to the Scheme be amended such that The price at which the Trust will purchase the clause 1.19, being the definition of Offer be replaced Scheme Securities will, regardless of whether a in its entirety with the following new provision: Release Date or Release Dates in respect thereof ""1.19 ""Offer means an offer to sell Scheme Securities has or has not passed, be an amount equivalent at to an Offeree in terms of the Purchase Scheme the relevant date to the higher of the Market Value and shall include an offer made by grant or of Scheme Securities of the same class as the award, and to the extent an offer is made by Scheme Securities concerned at that time less 20% grant or award, acceptance thereof shall be twenty per cent and the Scheme Debt payable by deemed to take place simultaneously with the Participant in respect of the Scheme Securities delivery thereof: concerned at that time plus any payments previously made by the Participant on account of the relevant capital and or interest: and 257 25 Special Resolution No."
1: Investec Limited: Directors' Preference Shares by Investec Limited or any of its authority to acquire ordinary shares and preference shares subsidiaries: Resolved that: vi Investec Limited has been given authority by its Articles of Association: - in terms of Article 9 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and with effect from 10 August 2006, vii at any point in time, Investec Limited may only appoint Investec Limited hereby approves, as a general approval 1 one agent to effect any repurchase on Investec contemplated in Sections 85 and 89 of the South African Limited's behalf: Companies Act, No.
"61 of 1973, as amended the ""SA Act"", the acquisition by Investec Limited or its viii Investec Limited remaining in compliance with the subsidiaries from time to time, of the issued ordinary minimum shareholder spread requirements of the JSE shares and non-redeemable non-cumulative nonListings Requirements: and participating preference shares the Perpetual Preference Shares of Investec Limited, upon such ix Investec Limited and or its subsidiaries not repurchasing terms and conditions and in such amounts as the any shares during a prohibited period as defined by the directors of Investec Limited or its subsidiaries may from JSE Listings Requirements."
time to time decide, but subject to the provisions of the South African Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, The reason and effect of Special Resolution No.
1 is to grant the SA Act and the Listings Requirements of the JSE a renewable general authority to Investec Limited to acquire Limited the JSE, being that: ordinary shares and Perpetual Preference Shares of Investec Limited which are in issue from time to time in terms of the i any such acquisition of ordinary shares or Perpetual SA Act and the JSE Listing Requirements for the repurchase Preference Shares shall be effected through the order by Investec Limited or a subsidiary of Investec Limited, of book operated by the JSE trading system and done Investec Limited's shares.
without any prior understanding or arrangement: The directors of Investec Limited have no present intention of ii this general authority shall be valid until Investec making any purchases but believe that Investec Limited should Limited's next Annual General Meeting, provided that it retain the flexibility to take action if future purchases were shall not extend beyond 15 fifteen months from the considered desirable and in the best interests of shareholders.
date of passing of this Special Resolution No.
1: The directors of Investec Limited are of the opinion, after considering the effect of such acquisition of ordinary shares and iii an announcement will be published as soon as Investec Perpetual Preference Shares, if implemented and on the Limited or any of its subsidiaries has acquired ordinary assumption that the maximum of 20% twenty per cent of the shares or Perpetual Preference Shares constituting, on a current issued ordinary share capital of Investec Limited will be cumulative basis, 3% three per cent of the number of repurchased using the mechanism of the general authority at the ordinary shares or Perpetual Preference Shares in issue maximum price at which the repurchase may take place a 10% prior to the acquisition pursuant to which the aforesaid ten per cent premium above the weighted average of the 3% three per cent threshold is reached, and for each market value for the securities for the 5 five business days 3% three per cent in aggregate acquired thereafter, immediately preceding the date of the repurchase and having containing full details of such acquisitions: regard to the price of the ordinary shares of Investec Limited on the JSE at the last practical date prior to the date of the notice iv acquisitions of shares in aggregate in any 1 one financial of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for year may not exceed 20% twenty per cent of Investec 10 August 2006 that: Limited's ordinary issued share capital or Investec Limited's issued Perpetual Preference Share capital as at - Investec Limited and the group will be able, in the ordinary the date of passing of this Special Resolution No.
1: course of business, to pay its debt for a period of 12 twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General v in determining the price at which ordinary shares or Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 10 August 2006: Perpetual Preference Shares issued by Investec Limited - the consolidated assets of Investec Limited and the group, are acquired by it or any of its subsidiaries in terms of fairly valued in accordance with Generally Accepted this general authority, the maximum premium at which Accounting Practice, will be in excess of the consolidated such ordinary shares may be acquired will be 10% ten liabilities of Investec Limited and the group for a period of 12 per cent of the weighted average of the market value at twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual which such ordinary shares or Perpetual Preference General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for Shares are traded on the JSE as determined over the 5 10 August 2006: five business days immediately preceding the date of - Investec Limited and the group will have adequate capital repurchase of such ordinary shares or Perpetual and reserves for ordinary business purposes for a period of 12 twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual Notices 258 General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for ZAR0.001 each in the authorised share capital of 10 August 2006: and Investec Limited, whether issued or not, be and are - the working capital of Investec Limited and the group will be hereby subdivided by 5 five into 277 500 000 two adequate for ordinary business purposes for a period of 12 hundred and seventy seven million five hundred twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual thousand ordinary shares of ZAR0.0002 each in the General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for authorised and issued share capital of Investec Limited.
The reason and effect of Special Resolution No.
2 is to Litigation statement subdivide and reduce the par value of the authorised In terms of section 11.26 of the JSE Listings Requirements, the ordinary shares of Investec Limited, whether issued or not, directors, whose names appear on pages 145 to 148 of the 2006 to ZAR0.0002 each.
Annual Report, are not aware of any legal or arbitration proceedings that are pending or threatened, that may have or The passing of Special Resolution No.
2 is conditional upon have had in the recent past, being at least the previous 12 the passing of all the other subdivision-related resolutions, twelve months, a material effect on the group's financial namely Special Resolution Nos.
Directors' responsibility statement 27 Special Resolution No.
3 : Investec Limited: Subdivision of The directors, whose names appear on pages 145 to 148 of the the class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non- 2006 Annual Report, collectively and individually accept full cumulative preference shares responsibility for the accuracy of the information pertaining to this circular and certify that, to the best of their knowledge and Resolved that belief, there are no facts that have been omitted which would make any statement false or misleading and that all reasonable - subject to the passing of Resolution No.
39 and such enquiries to ascertain such facts have been made and that the resolution otherwise becoming effective, the passing and special resolution contains all information.
registration of Special Resolution Nos.
2, 4 and 5, in terms of Section 75 1 e of the Companies Act, Act Material changes No.
61 of 1973, as amended SA Act, Article 8.1 c of Other than the facts and developments reported on in the 2006 the Articles of Association of Investec Limited, and with Annual Report, there have been no material changes in the effect from 10 August 2006, the 8 000 000 eight million affairs or financial position of Investec Limited and its subsidiaries class A variable rate compulsorily convertible nonsince the date of signature of the audit report and up to the date cumulative preference shares Class A Preference of this notice.
Shares of ZAR0.001 each in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, whether issued or not, be and The following additional information, some of which may appear are hereby subdivided by 5 five into 40 000 000 elsewhere in the 2006 Annual Report of which this notice forms forty million Class A Preference Shares of part, is provided in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements for ZAR0.0002 each in the authorised and issued share purposes of the general authority: capital of Investec Limited: - Directors and management - Annual Report pages 37 and - as a result of this subdivision, Article 151 of the Articles 145 to 152: of Association of Investec Limited be amended to reflect - Major beneficial shareholders - Annual Report page 142: the par value of the Class A Preference Shares as - Directors' interests in ordinary shares - Annual Report page ZAR0.0002 wherever it appears in Article 151.
136: and - Share capital of Investec Limited - Annual Report page 211 The reason and effect of Special Resolution No.
3 is to subdivide and reduce the par value of the authorised Class 26 Special Resolution No.
2 : Investec Limited: Subdivision of A Preference Shares of Investec Limited, whether issued or the ordinary shares not, to ZAR0.0002 each and to effect the consequential changes to the par value of these shares in Article 151 of the Resolved that: Articles of Association of Investec Limited.
- subject to the passing of Resolution No.
39 and such The passing of Special Resolution No.
3 is conditional upon resolution otherwise becoming effective, the passing and the passing of all the other subdivision related resolutions, registration of Special Resolution Nos.
3, 4 and 5, in namely Special Resolution Nos.
2, 4 and 5 and Resolution terms of Section 75 1 e of the Companies Act, Act No.
61 of 1973, as amended SA Act, Article 8.1 c of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and with effect from 10 August 2006, the 55 500 000 fifty five million five hundred thousand ordinary shares of 259 28 Special Resolution No.
4 : Investec Limited: Subdivision of iv 100 000 000 non-redeemable non-cumulative nonthe special convertible redeemable preference shares participating preference shares of ZAR0.01 each: v 1 dividend access South African Resident redeemable Resolved that preference share of ZAR1.00: vi 1 dividend access Non-South African Resident - subject to the passing of Resolution No.
39 and such redeemable preference share of ZAR1.00: resolution otherwise becoming effective, the passing and vii 560 000 000 special convertible redeemable preference registration of Special Resolution Nos.
terms of Section 75 1 e of the Companies Act, Act No.
61 of 1973, as amended SA Act, Article 8.1 c of The reason and effect of Special Resolution No.
5 is to the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and with amend the Memorandum of Association of Investec Limited effect from 10 August 2006, the 112 000 000 one to correctly reflect the new authorised share capital of hundred and twelve million special convertible Investec Limited.
redeemable preference shares of ZAR0.001 each in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, whether The passing of Special Resolution No.
5 is conditional upon issued or not, be and are hereby subdivided by 5 five the passing of all the other subdivision-related resolutions, into 560 000 000 five hundred and sixty million special namely Special Resolution Nos.
2, 3 and 4 and Resolution convertible redeemable preference shares of No.
ZAR0.0002 each in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited.
30 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited: Directors' authority to take action in respect of the resolutions The reason and effect of Special Resolution No.
4 is to subdivide and reduce the par value of the authorised special Resolved that: convertible redeemable preference share of Investec Limited, whether issued or not, to ZAR0.0002 each.
- any director or the company secretary of Investec Limited, be and is hereby authorised to do all things and The passing of Special Resolution No.
4 is conditional upon sign all documents which may be necessary to carry into the passing of all other subdivision-related resolutions, effect the aforesaid resolutions to the extent same have namely Special Resolution Nos.
2, 3 and 5 and Resolution been passed and, where applicable, registered.
Ordinary Business: Investec plc 29 Special Resolution No.
5 : Investec Limited: Consequential amendments to the Memorandum of Association To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following resolutions of Investec plc: Resolved that: 31 To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of - subject to the passing of Resolution No.
39 and such Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 together with resolution otherwise becoming effective, the passing and the reports of the directors of Investec plc and of the registration of Special Resolution Nos.
2, 3 and 4, in auditors of Investec plc.
terms of Section 56 4 of the Companies Act, Act No.
61 of 1973, as amended SA Act, and Article 149 32 To approve the Remuneration Report of Investec plc for the of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and year ended 31 March 2006. with effect from 10 August 2006, the Memorandum of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the 33 To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec plc on the deletion of the entire paragraph 8 a and the ordinary shares in Investec plc for the 6 six month period substitution thereof with the following new paragraph ended 30 September 2005.
8 a : 34 Subject to the passing of Resolution No.
13 and Resolution 8 a Par value: No.
14, to declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares in Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 of an amount The share capital of Investec Limited is ZAR1 205 502.00 equal to that recommended by the directors of Investec plc.
divided into: 35 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP of Beckett House, 1 i 277 500 000 ordinary shares of ZAR0.0002 each: Lambeth Palace Road, London SE1 7EU as auditors of ii 40 000 000 Class A variable rate compulsorily Investec plc to hold office until the conclusion of the Annual convertible non-cumulative preference shares of General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2007 and to ZAR0.0002 each: authorise the directors of Investec plc to fix their iii 50 000 variable rate cumulative redeemable preference remuneration.
shares of ZAR0.60 each: Notices 260 The Articles of Association of Investec plc permit the Special Business: Investec plc directors of Investec plc to allot shares and other securities in accordance with section 80 of the UK To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without Companies Act 1985, up to an amount authorised by modification, the following resolutions of Investec plc: the shareholders in general meeting.
The authority conferred on the directors at Investec plc's 36 Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc: Directors' authority to Extraordinary General Meeting held on 28 June 2006 allot shares and other securities.
expires on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of Investec plc convened for 10 August 2006 Resolved that: and the directors of Investec plc recommend that this authority be renewed.
- the authority conferred on the directors of Investec plc by paragraph 12.2 of Article 12 of Investec plc's Articles Resolution No.
36 will, if passed, authorise the directors of of Association be renewed for the period ending on the Investec plc to allot Investec plc's unissued shares up to a date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be maximum nominal amount of 1 036 377, as set out in the table held in 2007 or, if earlier, 15 fifteen months from the below: date on which this Resolution is passed, and for such period the Section 80 amount shall be 1 036 377.
Number of Shares Par value Relative part of Total Section 80 amount 1 Ordinary shares 74 633 746 74 633 24 877 2 3 Special Converting Shares 11 500 473 11 500 11 500 1 036 377 Non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating 2 preference shares Perpetual Preference Shares 100 000 000 1 000 000 1 000 000 1.
One third of value issued in line with that normally adopted by UK Companies.
Based on 100% one hundred per cent of the number of the unissued shares.
This amount is higher than the one-third of issued ordinary share capital limit normally adopted by UK companies at their Annual General Meetings to allow the directors of Investec plc to issue special converting shares in Investec plc as and when required in accordance with the agreements which constitute Investec's Dual Listed Company structure and to issue all of the unissued Investec plc Perpetual Preference Shares.
While the authority to allot shares to the value of 1 036 377 is given in respect of all of the relevant securities of Investec plc, the directors of Investec plc would expect that the shares of each class listed in the above table allotted by them would not be in excess of the amount listed in the third column of that table for each such class of shares.
As of 24 June 2006 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice, Investec plc holds 1 243 624 treasury shares which represent 1.67 per cent of the total ordinary share capital of Investec plc in issue.
261 37 Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc: Directors' authority to iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue allot ordinary shares for cash of ordinary shares may be made in terms of this authority, the maximum discount permitted will be 10% Resolved that: ten per cent of the weighted average traded price of the ordinary shares in question as determined over the - subject to the passing of Resolution No.
36, the power 30 thirty days prior to the date that the price of the conferred on the directors of Investec plc by paragraph issue is determined or agreed by the directors of 12.4 of Article 12 of Investec plc's Articles of Association Investec plc: and be renewed for the period referred to in Resolution No.
36 and for such period the Section 89 amount shall be v the equity securities shares must be issued to public 5 931.66. shareholders and not to related parties.
The purpose of Resolution No.
37 is to renew the authority In order for Resolution No.
37 to be passed, a 75% seventy of the directors of Investec plc to allot equity securities for five per cent majority of the votes of all members present cash otherwise than to shareholders in proportion to or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of existing holdings.
In the case of allotments other than rights Investec Limited must be cast in favour of Resolution No.
37. issues, the authority is limited to equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 5 931.66 which represents 38 Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc: Directors' authority to approximately 5% five per cent of the total combined purchase ordinary shares issued ordinary share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited as at 24 June being the latest practicable date prior Resolved that: to publication of this notice.
The authority will expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to - Investec plc be and is hereby unconditionally and be held in 2007 or, if earlier, 15 fifteen months after passing generally authorised for the purpose of Section 166 of this Resolution No.
37. the UK Companies Act, 1985 the UK Act to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the UK If this Resolution No.
20 are both Act of ordinary shares in the capital of Investec plc passed, the directors will have authority to allot shares for provided that: cash other than by way of rights in respect of both Investec Limited and Investec plc up to the limits specified in those i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares respective Resolutions.
In such circumstances, the directors which may be purchased is: confirm that, as and when they exercise such authorities, they intend to comply with the relevant guidelines of the A unless and until such date that Resolution No.
becomes effective, 7 463 375 seven million four hundred and sixty three thousand three hundred The directors also confirm that the exercise of any such and seventy five ordinary shares of 0.001 each: or authority would be subject to the following specific limitations as required by the Listing Requirements of the JSE B from the date on which Resolution No.
39 becomes Limited: effective, 37 316 875 thirty seven million three hundred and sixteen thousand eight hundred and i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the seventy five ordinary shares of 0.0002 each: date of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec plc or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen months from the ii the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc share is the nominal value of such share at the time of convened for 10 August 2006: purchase: ii a paid press announcement giving full details including iii the maximum price which may be paid for any ordinary the impact on net asset value and earnings per ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% one hundred and five share, will be published at the time of an issue per cent of the average of the middle market representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one quotations of the ordinary shares of Investec plc as financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official of ordinary shares in issue prior to such issue: List for the 5 five business days immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to be iii the issue in the aggregate in any one financial year will purchased: and not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number of ordinary shares in issue, including instruments which are compulsorily convertible: Notices 262 iv this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual Limited must be cast in favour of Resolution No.
General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2007, or if earlier, 15 fifteen months from the date on which this 39 Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc: Subdivision of ordinary Resolution is passed except in relation to the purchase and special converting shares of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before the expiry of such authority and which might be Resolved that: executed wholly or partly after such expiry unless such authority is renewed prior to that time - subject to the passing and registration of Special Resolution Nos.
2, 3, 4 and 5: The directors of Investec plc consider it may, in certain circumstances, be in the best interests of shareholders generally i that each ordinary share of 0.001 in the capital of for Investec plc to purchase its own ordinary shares.
Investec plc be and is hereby subdivided into 5 five ordinary shares of 0.0002 each: and Accordingly, the purpose and effect of Resolution No.
38 is to grant a general authority, subject to specified limits, to Investec ii that each special converting share of 0.001 in the plc to acquire ordinary shares of Investec plc.
You are asked to capital of Investec plc be and is hereby subdivided into consent to the purchase by Investec plc of, unless and until such 5 five special converting shares of 0.0002 each, date that Resolution No.
39 becomes effective, up to a maximum of 7 463 375 seven million four hundred and sixty three in each case subject to and conditional upon admission of thousand three hundred and seventy five ordinary shares of the issued new Investec plc ordinary shares to the Official 0.001 each: or from the date on which Resolution No.
39 List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the becomes effective, up to a maximum of 37 316 875 thirty seven London Stock Exchange becoming effective.
million three hundred and sixteen thousand eight hundred and seventy five ordinary shares of 0.0002 each.
The passing of Resolution No.
39 is conditional upon the passing of all other subdivision-related resolutions, namely As of 24 June 2006 the latest practicable date prior to Special Resolutions 2, 3, 4 and 5. publication of this notice, there were options outstanding over 7 695 590 ordinary shares, representing 10% ten per cent of In order for Resolution No.
39 to be passed, a 75% seventy Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital at that date.
If the five per cent majority of the votes of all members present authority to buy back shares under Resolution No.
38 was or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of exercised in full, the total number of options to subscribe for Investec Limited must be cast in favour of Resolution No.
39. ordinary shares would represent 11% eleven per cent of Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital.
40 Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc: Consequential The Companies Acquisition of own Shares Treasury Shares amendments to the Articles of Association Regulations 2003 the Regulations permit Investec plc to purchase its own ordinary shares to be held in treasury, with a Resolved that: view to possible resale at a future date as opposed to cancelling these shares as previously required.
39, the Articles of Association as tabled at the meeting, marked A and The directors of Investec plc have no present intention of making initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of any purchases, but believe that Investec plc should retain the identification, be adopted as the articles of association of flexibility to take further action if future purchases were Investec plc in substitution for and to the exclusion of considered desirable and in the best interests of shareholders.
If the existing articles of association.
Investec plc were to purchase shares under the Regulations they will be cancelled or, to the extent determined by the directors The reason and effect of Resolution No.
40 is to update the of Investec plc, held in treasury, provided that the number of Articles of Association of Investec plc to reflect the changes shares held in treasury at any one time does not exceed 10% to the share capital in Investec plc following the subdivision ten per cent of Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital.
The of the Investec plc ordinary shares and the special converting authority will be exercised only if the directors of Investec plc shares.
believe that to do so would result in an increase of earnings per ordinary share and would be in the interests of shareholders In order for Resolution No.
40 to be passed, a 75% seventy generally or, in the case of the creation of treasury shares, that to five per cent majority of the votes of all members present do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in favour of Resolution No.
38 to be passed, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec 263 41 Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc: Directors' authority to take action in respect of the resolutions Resolved that: - any director or the company secretary of Investec plc be and is hereby authorised to do all things and sign all documents which may be necessary to carry into effect the aforesaid resolutions to the extent same have been passed and, where applicable, registered.
The directors of Investec Limited consider that the proposed resolutions in the notice of the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of Investec Limited and its shareholders and recommends that you vote in favour as the directors of Investec Limited intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By order of the board Selwyn Noik Company Secretary Date: 30 June 2006 Registration No: 1925 002833 06 Registered Office: 100 Grayston Drive Sandown Sandton, 2196 PO Box 785700, Sandton, 2146 Notices 264 Notes: 7.
Copies of Investec plc's new Articles of Association and The 1.
All of the above resolutions are Joint Electorate Actions Investec Limited Security Purchase Scheme 2003 Trust Deed under the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and, are available for inspection at Investec Limited's registered accordingly, both the holders of ordinary shares in Investec office during business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Limited and the holders of the special convertible Sundays and any public holidays excluded from the date of redeemable preference shares in Investec Limited are this notice until the close of Investec Limited's Annual entitled to vote.
Voting will be on a poll which will remain General Meeting to be convened on Thursday, open for sufficient time to allow the Investec plc Annual 10 August 2006 and will also be available for inspection at General Meeting to be held and for the vote of the holders the place of the meeting for 15 fifteen minutes before and of Investec Limited's special convertible redeemable during the meeting preference shares to be ascertained and cast on a poll.
On the poll: a each ordinary share in Investec Limited other than those subject to voting restrictions will have one vote: b the holder of Investec Limited's special convertible redeemable preference shares will cast the same number of votes as were validly cast for and against the equivalent resolution at the Investec plc Annual General Meeting: c the holder of Investec Limited's special convertible redeemable preference shares will be obliged to cast these votes for and against the relevant resolution in accordance with the votes cast for and against the equivalent resolution by Investec plc shareholders on the poll at the Investec plc Annual General Meeting: d through this mechanism, the votes of the Investec plc shareholders at the Investec plc Annual General Meeting will be reflected at Investec Limited's Annual General Meeting in respect of each Joint Electorate Action: and e the results of the Joint Electorate Actions will be announced after both polls have closed.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a member of Investec Limited or Investec plc.
A proxy may not speak at the meeting except with permission from the chairman of the meeting.
A form of proxy yellow is enclosed.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from subsequently attending and voting at the meeting in person.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is executed or a duly certified copy of any such power or authority, must be deposited at the Transfer Secretary's office not less than 48 forty eight hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to Investec Limited's register of members at 15:00 SA time on 8 August 2006 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 forty eight hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, as the case may be.
265 Investec plc Incorporated in England and Wales Registration number 3633621 Share code: INP ISIN: GB0031773103 8 To re-elect Sir David Prosser, whose appointment as a Notice of Annual General Meeting of director terminates at the end of the Annual General Investec plc Meetings of Investec plc and Investec Limited convened for 10 August 2006, as a director of Investec plc and Investec Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Investec plc will be held at 14:00 UK time on Thursday, 10 Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
August 2006, at the registered office of Investec plc at 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP to transact the following For brief biographical details of the directors to be re-elected, business: please refer to the Annual Report of Investec plc Investec Limited.
Notices 266 15 To re-appoint Ernst & Young Chartered Accountants SA of 18 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited: Placing 10% of the Ernst & Young House, Wanderers Office Park, 52 Corlett unissued class A variable rate compulsorily convertible Drive, Illovo, 2196 PO Box 2322, Johannesburg, 2000 as non-cumulative preference shares under the control of the auditors of Investec Limited to hold office until the Directors conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2007 and to authorise the directors of Resolved that: Investec Limited to fix their remuneration.
2 16 To re-appoint KPMG Inc. of 85 Empire Road, Parktown, becomes effective, 800 000 eight hundred thousand 2193 Private Bag 9, Parkview, 2122 as auditors of Investec class A variable rate compulsorily convertible nonLimited to hold office until the conclusion of the Annual cumulative preference shares Class A Preference General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2007 and Shares of ZAR0.001 each being 10% ten per cent of to authorise the directors of Investec Limited to fix their the unissued Class A Preference Shares in the remuneration.
authorised share capital of Investec Limited Special Business: Investec Limited or To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following ordinary and special resolutions of B from the date on which Special Resolution No.
2 Investec Limited: becomes effective, 4 000 000 four million Class A Preference Shares of ZAR0.0002 each being 10% ten 17 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited: Placing 10% of the per cent of the unissued Class A Preference Shares in unissued ordinary shares under the control of the the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, Directors be and are hereby placed under the control of the directors Resolved that: of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of Section 221 of the South African Companies Act, No 61 of 1973, as A unless and until such date that Special Resolution No.
2 amended, the SA Act who are authorised to allot and becomes effective, 1 150 047 one million one hundred issue the same at their discretion until the next Annual and fifty thousand and forty seven ordinary shares of General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2007, ZAR0.001 each being 10% ten per cent of the subject to the provisions of the SA Act, the South African unissued ordinary shares in the authorised share capital Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, and the Listings of Investec Limited: Requirements of the JSE Limited.
or 19 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited: Placing the remaining unissued shares under the control of the B from the date on which Special Resolution No.
2 Directors becomes effective, 5 750 235 five million seven hundred and fifty thousand and two hundred and thirty five Resolved that: ordinary shares of ZAR0.0002 each being 10% ten per cent of the unissued ordinary shares in the authorised - all the unissued shares in the authorised share capital of share capital of Investec Limited: Investec Limited, excluding the ordinary shares and the class A variable rate compulsorily convertible nonbe and are hereby placed under the control of the directors cumulative preference shares, be and are hereby placed of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of Section under the control of the directors of Investec Limited as 221 of the South African Companies Act, No 61 of 1973, as a general authority in terms of Section 221 of the South amended, the SA Act who are authorised to allot and African Companies Act, No 61 of 1973, as amended, issue the same at their discretion until the next Annual the SA Act who are authorised to allot and issue the General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2007, same at their discretion until the next Annual General subject to the provisions of the SA Act, the South African Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2007, subject Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, and the Listings to the provisions of the SA Act, the South African Banks Requirements of the JSE Limited.
267 20 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited: Directors' authority If this Resolution No.
37 are both to allot and issue ordinary shares for cash passed, the directors will have authority to allot shares for cash other than by way of rights in respect of both Investec Resolved that: Limited and Investec plc up to the limits specified in those respective Resolutions.
In such circumstances, the directors - subject to the passing of Resolution No.
17, the Listings confirm that, as and when they exercise such authorities, Requirements of the JSE Limited, the South African they intend to comply with the relevant guidelines of the Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, and the South Association of British Insurers.
61 of 1973, as amended, the directors of Investec Limited be and they are hereby In order for Resolution No.
2 Investec plc must be cast in favour of Resolution No.
20. becomes effective, 1 150 047 one million one hundred and fifty thousand and forty seven ordinary shares of 21 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited: Directors' authority ZAR0.001 each: to allot and issue class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares for cash or Resolved that: B from the date on which Special Resolution No.
2 becomes effective, 5 750 235 five million seven - subject to the passing of Resolution No.
18, the Listings hundred and fifty thousand and two hundred and thirty Requirements of the JSE Limited, the South African five ordinary shares of ZAR0.0002 each: Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, and the South African Companies Act, No.
61 of 1973, as amended, the for cash as and when suitable situations arise, subject to the directors of Investec Limited be and they are hereby following specific limitations as required by the Listing authorised to allot and issue: Requirements of the JSE Limited: A unless and until such date that Special Resolution No.
2 i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the becomes effective, 800 000 eight hundred thousand date of the next Annual General Meeting of the class A variable rate compulsorily convertible noncompany or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen cumulative preference shares Class A Preference months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of Shares of ZAR0.001 each being 10% ten per cent of Investec Limited convened for 10 August 2006: the unissued Class A Preference Shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited: ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the impact on net asset value and earnings per ordinary or share, will be published at the time of an issue representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one B from the date on which Special Resolution No.
2 financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number becomes effective, 4 000 000 four million Class A of ordinary shares in issue prior to such issue: Preference Shares of ZAR0.0002 each being 10% ten per cent of the unissued Class A Preference Shares in iii the issue in the aggregate in any 1 one financial year will the authorised share capital of Investec Limited: not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number of ordinary shares in issue, including instruments which are for cash as and when suitable situations arise, subject to the compulsorily convertible: following specific limitations as required by the Listing Requirements of the JSE Limited: iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue of ordinary shares may be made in terms of this i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the authority, the maximum discount permitted will be 10% date of the next Annual General Meeting of the ten per cent of the weighted average traded price of company or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen the ordinary shares in question as determined over the months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of 30 thirty days prior to the date that the price of the Investec Limited convened for 10 August 2006: issue is determined or agreed by the directors of Investec Limited: and ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the impact on net asset value and earnings per Class A v the equity securities shares must be issued to public Preference Share will be published at the time of an shareholders and not to related parties.
issue representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one Notices 268 iii the issue in the aggregate in any 1 one financial year Release Date or Release Dates in respect thereof has will not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number or has not passed, be an amount equivalent at the of Class A Preference Shares in issue, including relevant date to the higher of the Market Value of instruments which are compulsorily convertible: Scheme Securities of the same class as the Scheme Securities concerned at that time less 20% twenty per iv in determining the price at which an allotment and cent and the Scheme Debt payable by the Participant issue of Class A Preference Shares may be made in in respect of the Scheme Securities concerned at that terms of this authority, the maximum discount time plus any payments previously made by the permitted will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted Participant on account of the relevant capital and or average traded price of the Class A Preference interest: and Shares in question as determined over the 30 thirty 4.2.
2 if a Participant has an entitlement to Scheme Securities days prior to the date that the price of the issue is in respect of which the Release Date or Release Dates determined or agreed by the directors of Investec have passed, which number is less than 400 four Limited: and hundred, he will be obliged to resell his Scheme Securities to the Trust at the price as determined in v the equity securities shares must be issued to public 4.2.
The purpose of Resolution 22 is to bring the provisions of the The Investec Limited Security Purchase Scheme If Resolution No.
21 is passed, the directors will have 2003 Trust in respect of the vesting of unvested authority to allot Class A Preference Shares for cash other portions of Scheme Securities on, inter alia, death and than by way of rights in respect of Investec Limited up to the retirement, in line with the other scheme trusts within limits specified in Resolution No.
21 to be passed, a 75% seventy 23 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited:Amendments to five per cent majority of the votes of all members present The Investec Limited Security Purchase Scheme 2003 Trust or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Deed Investec plc must be cast in favour of Resolution No.
Resolved that: 22 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited: Amendments to The Investec Limited Security Purchase Scheme 2003 Trust - in terms of clause 15.1.
2. of the The Investec Limited Deed Security Purchase Scheme 2003 Trust Deed the Scheme, the provisions of Appendix 1 to the Resolved that: Scheme being the Rules Applicable to the Purchase Scheme be amended such that clause 6.3 be replaced - in terms of clause 15.1.
2. of the The Investec Limited in its entirety with the following new provision: Security Purchase Scheme 2003 Trust Deed the Scheme, the provisions of clause 4 of Appendix 1 to 6.3 Release Dates of the Scheme Securities referred to in the Scheme being the provisions in the Rules Applicable to the Purchase Scheme relating to 6.2. shall apply to all Participants including those who consequences of early termination of employment be become Participants after the date of the initial Offer amended such that clause 4.2. thereof be replaced in under the Scheme, save that if a Participant becomes a its entirety with the following new provision: Participant after the date of the initial Offer or after any of the Release Dates, the Scheme Securities which 4.2 Participants to whom 4.1 applies shall have the would have been Released on such prior Release following rights and obligations - Dates will be accumulated for Release on the last of such Release Dates being the date envisaged in 6.2.
1 the Participant is obliged to resell to the Trust the Scheme Securities in respect of which the Release The purpose of Resolution 23 is to ensure the equality of Date or Release Dates have not passed.
To the extent treatment between Participants regardless of when same that the Release Date has passed in respect of at least become Participants in the Scheme.
400 four hundred Scheme Securities a Participant may offer such Scheme Securities to other Participants.
24 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited:Amendments to If a Participant does not wish to offer such Scheme The Investec Limited Security Purchase Scheme 2003 Trust Securities to other Participants or a sale in respect Deed thereof is not achieved within 30 thirty days of an event referred to in 4.1.
3, the Participant Resolved that: will be obliged to resell to the Trust those Scheme Securities.
The price at which the Trust will purchase - in terms of clause 15.1.
2. of the The Investec Limited the Scheme Securities will, regardless of whether a Security Purchase Scheme 2003 Trust Deed the 269 Scheme, the provisions of the Schedule of of Investec Limited's ordinary issued shares or Investec Interpretation to the Scheme be amended such that Limited's issued Perpetual Preference Shares capital as clause 1.19, being the definition of Offer be replaced at the date of passing of this Special Resolution No.
"1: in its entirety with the following new provision: v in determining the price at which ordinary shares or 1.19 ""Offer means an offer to sell Scheme Securities to an Perpetual Preference Shares issued by Investec Limited Offeree in terms of the Purchase Scheme and shall are acquired by it or any of its subsidiaries in terms of include an offer made by grant or award, and to the this general authority, the maximum premium at which extent an offer is made by grant or award, acceptance such ordinary shares may be acquired will be 10% ten thereof shall be deemed to take place simultaneously per cent of the weighted average of the market value with delivery thereof: at which such ordinary shares or Perpetual Preference Shares are traded on the JSE as determined over the 5 25 Special Resolution No."
1: Investec Limited: Directors' five business days immediately preceding the date of authority to acquire ordinary shares and preference shares repurchase of such ordinary shares or Perpetual Preference Shares by Investec Limited or any of its Resolved that: subsidiaries: - subject to the passing and registration of Special vi Investec Limited has been given authority by its Articles Resolution No.
1 in the Investec Limited Notice of of Association: Annual General Meeting convened for 10 August 2006, in terms of Article 9 of the Articles of vii at any point in time, Investec Limited may only appoint Association of Investec Limited and with effect from 1 one agent to effect any repurchase on Investec 10 August 2006, Investec Limited hereby approves, as a Limited's behalf: general approval contemplated in Sections 85 and 89 of the South African Companies Act, No.
"61 of 1973, viii Investec Limited remaining in compliance with the as amended the ""SA Act"", the acquisition by Investec minimum shareholder spread requirements of the JSE Limited or its subsidiaries from time to time, of the Listings Requirements: and issued ordinary shares and non-redeemable noncumulative non-participating preference shares the ix Investec Limited and or its subsidiaries not Perpetual Preference Shares of Investec Limited, repurchasing any shares during a prohibited period as upon such terms and conditions and in such amounts defined by the JSE Listings Requirements."
as the directors of Investec Limited or its subsidiaries may from time to time decide, but subject to the The reason and effect of Special Resolution No.
1 is to grant provisions of the South African Banks Act No.
94 of a renewable general authority to Investec Limited to acquire 1990, as amended, the SA Act and the Listings ordinary shares and Perpetual Preference Shares of Investec Requirements of the JSE Limited the JSE, being that: Limited which are in issue from time to time in terms of the SA Act and the JSE Listing Requirements for the repurchase i any such acquisition of ordinary shares or Perpetual by Investec Limited, or a subsidiary of Investec Limited, of Preference Shares shall be effected through the order Investec Limited's shares.
book operated by the JSE trading system and done without any prior understanding or arrangement: The directors of Investec Limited have no present intention of making any purchases but believe that Investec Limited ii this general authority shall be valid until Investec should retain the flexibility to take action if future purchases Limited's next Annual General Meeting, provided that were considered desirable and in the best interests of it shall not extend beyond 15 fifteen months from shareholders.
The directors of Investec Limited are of the the date of passing of this Special Resolution No.
1: opinion, after considering the effect of such acquisition of ordinary shares and Perpetual Preference Shares, if iii an announcement will be published as soon as Investec implemented and on the assumption that the maximum of Limited or any of its subsidiaries has acquired ordinary 20% twenty per cent of the current issued ordinary share shares or Perpetual Preference Shares constituting, on capital of Investec Limited will be repurchased using the a cumulative basis, 3% three per cent of the number mechanism of the general authority at the maximum price at of ordinary shares or Perpetual Preference Shares in which the repurchase may take place a 10% ten per cent issue prior to the acquisition pursuant to which the premium above the weighted average of the market value aforesaid 3% three per cent threshold is reached, and for the securities for the 5 five business days immediately for each 3% three per cent in aggregate acquired preceding the date of the repurchase and having regard to thereafter, containing full details of such acquisitions: the price of the ordinary shares of Investec Limited on the JSE at the last practical date prior to the date of the notice iv acquisitions of shares in aggregate in any 1 one of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for financial year may not exceed 20% twenty per cent 10 August 2006 that: Notices 270 - Investec Limited and the group will be able, in the 136: and ordinary course of business, to pay its debt for a period - Share capital of Investec Limited - Annual Report page 211 of 12 twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened 26 Special Resolution No.
2: Investec Limited: Subdivision of for 10 August 2006: the ordinary shares - the consolidated assets of Investec Limited and the group, fairly valued in accordance with Generally Resolved that: Accepted Accounting Practice, will be in excess of the consolidated liabilities of Investec Limited and the group - subject to the passing and registration of Special for a period of 12 twelve months after the date of the Resolution Nos.
2, 3, 4 and 5 as contained in the Investec notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited Limited Notice of Annual General Meeting convened for convened for 10 August 2006: 10 August 2006 and subject to the passing of Special - Investec Limited and the group will have adequate Resolution Nos.
3, 4, 5 and 8 and such resolutions capital and reserves for ordinary business purposes for otherwise becoming effective, in terms of Section a period of 12 twelve months after the date of the 75 1 e of the Companies Act, Act No.
61 of 1973, as notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited amended SA Act, Article 8.1 c of the Articles of convened for 10 August 2006: and Association of Investec Limited and with effect from - the working capital of Investec Limited and the group 10 August 2006, the 55 500 000 fifty five million five will be adequate for ordinary business purposes for a hundred thousand ordinary shares of ZAR0.001 each in period of 12 twelve months after the date of the the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, whether notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited issued or not, be and are hereby subdivided by 5 five convened for 10 August 2006. into 277 500 000 two hundred and seventy seven million five hundred thousand ordinary shares of Litigation statement ZAR0.0002 each in the authorised and issued share In terms of section 11.26 of the JSE Listings Requirements, the capital of Investec Limited.
directors, whose names appear on pages 145 to 148 of the 2006 Annual Report, are not aware of any legal or arbitration The reason and effect of Special Resolution No.
2 is to proceedings that are pending or threatened, that may have or subdivide and reduce the par value of the authorised have had in the recent past, being at least the previous 12 ordinary shares of Investec Limited, whether issued or not, twelve months, a material effect on the group's financial to ZAR0.0002 each.
The passing of Special Resolution No.
2 is conditional upon Directors' responsibility statement the passing of all the other subdivision related resolutions, The directors, whose names appear on pages 145 to 148 of the namely Special Resolution Nos.
2006 Annual Report, collectively and individually accept full responsibility for the accuracy of the information pertaining to 27 Special Resolution No.
3: Investec Limited: Subdivision of this circular and certify that, to the best of their knowledge and the class A variable rate compulsorily convertible nonbelief, there are no facts that have been omitted which would cumulative preference shares make any statement false or misleading and that all reasonable enquiries to ascertain such facts have been made and that the Resolved that special resolution contains all information.
- subject to the passing and registration of Special Material changes Resolution Nos.
2, 3, 4 and 5 as contained in the Investec Other than the facts and developments reported on in the 2006 Limited Notice of Annual General Meeting convened for Annual Report, there have been no material changes in the 10 August 2006 and such resolutions otherwise affairs or financial position of Investec Limited and its subsidiaries becoming effective, the passing of Special Resolution since the date of signature of the audit report and up to the date Nos.
2, 4, 5 and 8, in terms of Section 75 1 e of the of this notice.
61 of 1973, as amended SA Act, Article 8.1 c of the Articles of Association of The following additional information, some of which may appear Investec Limited and with effect from 10 August 2006, elsewhere in the 2006 Annual Report of which this notice forms the 8 000 000 eight million Class A variable rate part, is provided in terms of the JSE Limited Listings compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference Requirements for purposes of the general authority: shares Class A Preference Shares of ZAR0.001 each in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, - Directors and management - Annual Report pages 37 and whether issued or not, be and are hereby subdivided by 145 to 152: 5 five into 40 000 000 forty million Class A - Major beneficial shareholders - Annual Report page 142: Preference Shares of ZAR0.0002 each in the authorised - Directors' interests in ordinary shares - Annual Report page and issued share capital of Investec Limited: 271 - as a result of this subdivision, Article 151 of the Articles becoming effective, the passing of Special Resolution of Association of Investec Limited be amended to reflect Nos.
2, 3, 4 and 8, in terms of Section 56 4 of the the par value of the Class A Preference Shares as Companies Act, Act No.
61 of 1973, as amended SA ZAR0.0002 wherever it appears in Article 151.
Act, Article 149 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and with effect from 10 August 2006, The reason and effect of Special Resolution No.
3 is to the Memorandum of Association of Investec Limited subdivide and reduce the par value of the authorised Class be amended by the deletion of the entire paragraph A Preference Shares of Investec Limited, whether issued or 8 a and the substitution thereof with the following not, to ZAR0.0002 each and to effect the consequential new paragraph 8 a : changes to the par value of these shares in Article 151 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited.
8 a Par value: The passing of Special Resolution No.
3 is conditional upon The share capital of Investec Limited is the passing of all the other subdivision-related resolutions, ZAR1 205 502.00 divided into: namely Special Resolution Nos.
2, 4, 5 and 8. i 277 500 000 ordinary shares of ZAR0.0002 each: 28 Special Resolution No.
4: Investec Limited: Subdivision of ii 40 000 000 Class 'A' variable rate compulsorily the special convertible redeemable preference shares convertible non-cumulative preference shares of ZAR0.0002 each: Resolved that iii 50 000 variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares of ZAR0.60 each: - subject to the passing and registration of Special iv 100 000 000 non-redeemable non-cumulative Resolution Nos.
2, 3, 4 and 5 as contained in the preference shares of ZAR0.01 each: Investec Limited Notice of Annual General Meeting v 1 dividend access South African Resident redeemable convened for 10 August 2006 and such resolutions preference share of ZAR1.00: otherwise becoming effective, and the passing of Special vi 1 dividend access Non-South African Resident Resolution Nos.
2, 3, 5 and 8, in terms of Section redeemable preference share of ZAR1.00: 75 1 e of the Companies Act, Act No.
61 of 1973, as vii 560 000 000 special convertible redeemable amended SA Act, Article 8.1 c of the Articles of preference shares of ZAR0.0002 each.
Association of Investec Limited, and with effect from 10 August 2006, the 112 000 000 one hundred and The reason and effect of Special Resolution No.
5 is to twelve million special convertible redeemable amend the Memorandum of Association of Investec Limited preference shares of ZAR0.001 each in the authorised to correctly reflect the new authorised share capital of share capital of Investec Limited, whether issued or not, Investec Limited.
be and are hereby subdivided by 5 five into 560 000 000 five hundred and sixty million special The passing of Special Resolution No.
5 is conditional upon convertible redeemable preference shares of the passing of all the other subdivision-related resolutions, ZAR0.0002 each in the authorised share capital of namely Special Resolution Nos.
30 Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited: Directors' authority The reason and effect of Special Resolution No.
4 is to to take action in respect of the resolutions subdivide and reduce the par value of the authorised special convertible redeemable preference shares of Investec Resolved that: Limited, whether issued or not, to ZAR0.0002 each.
- any director or the company secretary of Investec The passing of Special Resolution No.
4 is conditional upon Limited, be and is hereby authorised to do all things the passing of all the other subdivision-related resolutions, and sign all documents which may be necessary to namely Special Resolution Nos.
2, 3, 5 and 8. carry into effect the aforesaid resolutions to the extent same have been passed and, where applicable, 29 Special Resolution No.
amendments to the Memorandum of Association Ordinary Business: Investec plc Resolved that: To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without - subject to the passing and registration of Special modification, the following resolutions of Investec plc: Resolution Nos.
2, 3, 4 and 5 as contained in the Investec Limited Notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 10 August 2006 and such resolutions otherwise Notices 272 31 To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of 36 Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc: Directors' authority to Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 together with allot shares and other securities.
the reports of the directors of Investec plc and of the auditors of Investec plc.
Resolved that: 32 To approve the Remuneration Report of Investec plc for the - the authority conferred on the directors of Investec plc year ended 31 March 2006. by paragraph 12.2 of Article 12 of Investec plc's Articles of Association be renewed for the period ending on the 33 To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec plc on the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be ordinary shares in Investec plc for the 6 six month period held in 2007 or, if earlier, 15 fifteen months from the ended 30 September 2005. date on which this Resolution is passed, and for such period the Section 80 amount shall be 1 036 377.
34 Subject to the passing of Resolution No.
14, to declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares in The Articles of Association of Investec plc permit the Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 of an amount directors of Investec plc to allot shares and other securities equal to that recommended by the directors of Investec plc.
in accordance with section 80 of the UK Companies Act 1985, up to an amount authorised by the shareholders in 35 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP of Beckett House, 1 general meeting.
The authority conferred on the directors at Lambeth Palace Road, London SE1 7EU as auditors of Investec plc's Extraordinary General Meeting held on Investec plc to hold office until the conclusion of the Annual 28 June 2006 expires on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2007 and to General Meeting of Investec plc convened for authorise the directors of Investec plc to fix their 10 August 2006 and the directors of Investec plc remuneration.
recommend that this authority be renewed.
Special Business: Investec plc Resolution No.
36 will, if passed, authorise the directors of Investec plc to allot Investec plc's unissued shares up to a To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without maximum nominal amount of 1 036 377, as set out in the modification, the following resolutions of Investec plc: table below.
Number of Shares Par value Relative part of Total Section 80 amount 1 Ordinary shares 74 633 746 74 633 24 877 2 3 Special Converting Shares 11 500 473 11 500 11 500 1 036 377 Non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating 100 000 000 1 000 000 2 preference shares Perpetual Preference Shares 1 000 000 1.
6: Investec plc: Directors' authority the ordinary shares in question as determined over the to allot ordinary shares for cash 30 thirty days prior to the date that the price of the issue is determined or agreed by the directors of Resolved that: Investec plc: and v the equity securities shares must be issued to public - subject to the passing of Resolution No.
36, the power shareholders and not to related parties.
conferred on the directors of Investec plc by paragraph 12.4 of Article 12 of Investec plc's Articles of Association 38 Special Resolution No.
7: Investec plc: Directors' authority be renewed for the period referred to in Resolution No.
to purchase ordinary shares 36 and for such period the Section 89 amount shall be 5 931.66.
Resolved that: The purpose of Resolution No.
37 is to renew the authority - Investec plc be and is hereby unconditionally and of the directors of Investec plc to allot equity securities for generally authorised for the purpose of Section 166 of cash otherwise than to shareholders in proportion to the UK Companies Act, 1985 the UK Act to make existing holdings.
In the case of allotments other than rights market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the UK issues, the authority is limited to equity securities up to an Act of ordinary shares in the capital of Investec plc aggregate nominal value of 5 931.66 which represents provided that: approximately 5% five per cent of the total combined issued ordinary share capital of Investec plc and Investec i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares Limited as at xx being the latest practicable date prior to which may be purchased is: publication of this notice.
The authority will expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to A unless and until such date that Special Resolution No.
8 be held in 2007 or, if earlier, 15 fifteen months after passing becomes effective, 7 463 375 seven million four Special Resolution No.
6. hundred and sixty three thousand three hundred and seventy five ordinary shares of 0.001 each: or If Special Resolution No.
20 are both B from the date on which Special Resolution No.
8 passed, the directors will have authority to allot shares for becomes effective, 37 316 875 thirty seven million cash other than by way of rights in respect of both Investec three hundred and sixteen thousand eight hundred and Limited and Investec plc up to the limits specified in those seventy five ordinary shares of 0.0002 each: respective Resolutions.
In such circumstances, the directors ii the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary confirm that, as and when they exercise such authorities, share is the nominal value of such shares at the time of they intend to comply with the relevant guidelines of the purchase: Association of British Insurers.
iii the maximum price which may be paid for any ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% one hundred and five The directors also confirm that the exercise of any such per cent of the average of the middle market authority would be subject to the following specific quotations of the ordinary shares of Investec plc as limitations as required by the Listing Requirements of the JSE derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official Limited: List for the 5 five business days immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to be i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the purchased: and date of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec plc iv this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen months from the General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2007, or if date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc earlier, 15 fifteen months from the date on which this convened for 10 August 2006: Resolution is passed except in relation to the purchase ii a paid press announcement giving full details including of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded he impact on net asset value and earnings per ordinary before the expiry of such authority and which might be share, will be published at the time of an issue executed wholly or partly after such expiry unless such representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one authority is renewed prior to that time.
financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number of ordinary shares in issue prior to such issue: The directors of Investec plc consider it may, in certain iii the issue in the aggregate in any one financial year will circumstances, be in the best interests of shareholders not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number of generally for Investec plc to purchase its own ordinary ordinary shares in issue, including instruments which are shares.
Accordingly, the purpose and effect of Special compulsorily convertible: Resolution No.
7 is to grant a general authority, subject to iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue specified limits, to Investec plc to acquire ordinary shares of of ordinary shares may be made in terms of this Investec plc.
You are asked to consent to the purchase by authority, the maximum discount permitted will be 10% Investec plc of, unless and until such date that Special ten per cent of the weighted average traded price of Resolution No.
8 becomes effective, up to a maximum of Notices 274 7 463 375 seven million four hundred and sixty three List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the thousand three hundred and seventy five ordinary shares of London Stock Exchange becoming effective.
0.001 each: or from the date on which Special Resolution The passing of Special Resolution No.
8 becomes effective, up to a maximum of 37 316 875 the passing of all the other subdivision-related resolutions, thirty seven million three hundred and sixteen thousand namely Special Resolution Nos.
2, 3, 4 and 5. eight hundred and seventy five ordinary shares of 0.0002 each.
40 Special Resolution No 9: Investec plc: Consequential amendments to the Articles of Association As of 24 June 2006 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice, there were options outstanding Resolved that: over 7 695 590 ordinary shares, representing 10% ten per cent of Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital at that - subject to the passing of Special Resolution No.
If the authority to buy back shares under Special Articles of Association as tabled at the meeting, marked Resolution No.
7 was exercised in full, the total number of A and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of options to subscribe for ordinary shares would represent identification, be adopted as the articles of association of 11% eleven per cent of Investec plc's issued ordinary share Investec plc in substitution for and to the exclusion of capital.
the existing articles of association.
The Companies Acquisition of own Shares Treasury The reason and effect of Special Resolution No.
9 is to Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations permit Investec update the Articles of Association of Investec plc to reflect plc to purchase its own ordinary shares to be held in the changes to the share capital in Investec plc following the treasury, with a view to possible resale at a future date as subdivision of the Investec plc ordinary shares and the opposed to cancelling these shares as previously required.
special converting shares The directors of Investec plc have no present intention of 41 Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc: Directors' authority to making any purchases, but believe that Investec plc should take action in respect of the resolutions retain the flexibility to take further action if future purchases were considered desirable and in the best interests of Resolved that: shareholders.
If Investec plc were to purchase shares under the Regulations they will be cancelled or, to the extent - any director or the company secretary of Investec plc be determined by the directors of Investec plc, held in treasury, and is hereby authorised to do all things and sign all provided that the number of shares held in treasury at any documents which may be necessary to carry into effect one time does not exceed 10% ten per cent of Investec the aforesaid resolutions to the extent same have been plc's issued ordinary share capital.
The authority will be passed and, where applicable, registered.
exercised only if the directors of Investec plc believe that to do so would result in an increase of earnings per ordinary The directors of Investec plc consider that the proposed share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally resolutions in the notice of the Annual General Meeting are or, in the case of the creation of treasury shares, that to do in the best interests of Investec plc and its shareholders and so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
recommends that you vote in favour as the directors of Investec plc intend to do in respect of their own beneficial 39 Special Resolution No 8: Investec plc: Subdivision of holdings.
ordinary and special converting shares By order of the board Resolved that: - subject to the passing and registration of Special Resolution Nos.
2, 3, 4 and 5 in the Investec Limited Notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 10 August 2006: Richard Vardy Secretary i that each ordinary share of 0.001 in the capital of Investec plc be and is hereby subdivided into 5 five Date: 30 June 2006 ordinary shares of 0.0002 each: and ii that each special converting share of 0.001 in the Registered No: 3633621 capital of Investec plc be and is hereby subdivided into 5 five special converting shares of 0.0002 each, Registered Office: 2 Gresham Street in each case subject to and conditional upon admission of London the issued new Investec plc ordinary shares to the Official EC2V 7QP 275 Notes: 5.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any 1.
All of the above resolutions are Joint Electorate Actions power of attorney or other authority under which it was under the Articles of Association of Investec plc and, executed or a duly certified copy of any such power or accordingly, both the holders of ordinary shares in Investec authority must be returned so as to reach Investec plc's plc and the holder of the special voting share in Investec plc registrars, Computershare Investor Services plc, The are entitled to vote.
Voting will be on a poll which will remain Pavillions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 3FA, not less than open for sufficient time to allow the Investec Limited Annual 48 forty eight hours before the time for holding the General Meeting to be held and for the votes of the holder meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken of the Investec plc special voting share to be ascertained and otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or cast on a poll.
adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to 2.
a each fully paid ordinary share in Investec plc other than 6.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting, and the those subject to voting restrictions will have one vote: number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be b the holder of the Investec plc special voting share will determined by reference to Investec plc's register of cast the same number of votes as were validly cast for members at 14:00 UK time on Tuesday, 8 August 2006 or, and against the equivalent resolution by Investec Limited if the meeting is adjourned, 48 forty eight hours before the shareholders on the poll at the Investec Limited Annual time fixed for the adjourned meeting, as the case may be.
Copies of all contracts of service under which the directors c The holder of the Investec plc special voting share will be of Investec plc are employed by Investec plc or any of its obliged to cast these votes for and against the relevant subsidiaries, the Investec plc's new Articles of Association resolution in accordance with the votes cast for and and the Investec Limited Security Purchase Scheme 2003 against the equivalent resolution by Investec Limited Trust Deed are available for inspection at Investec plc's shareholders on the poll at the Investec Limited Annual registered office during business hours on any weekday General Meeting: Saturdays, Sundays and any public holidays excluded from d Through this mechanism, the votes of the Investec the date of this notice until the close of Investec plc's Annual Limited shareholders at the Investec Limited Annual General Meeting to be convened on Thursday General Meeting will be reflected at Investec plc's 10 August 2006 and, along with a copy of the register of Annual General Meeting in respect of each Joint interests of the directors, will also be available for inspection Electorate Action: and at the place of the meeting for 15 fifteen minutes before e The results of the Joint Electorate Action will be and during the meeting.
announced after both polls have closed.
A proxy need not be a member of Investec plc or Investec Limited.
A proxy may not speak at the meeting except with permission from the Chairman of the meeting.
A form of proxy green is enclosed.
