Notes to the financial statements 165 Payment retrospectively to all share-based payment transactions 1.
Accounting policies granted prior to the date of transition but that vest after the date of transition.
Basis of presentation Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The group financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and International The group has elected not to apply the derecognition Accounting Standards collectively, IFRS, as adopted for use by requirements of IAS 39 to financial assets and liabilities the European Union EU.
IFRSs as endorsed by the EU are derecognised before 1 January 2004. identical to current IFRSs except for the EU's amendment to IAS 39, under which the application of hedge accounting Exemption from the requirement to restate requirements have been simplified.
The group has elected not to comparative periods 31 March 2005 for financial apply the amendments as adopted by the EU, thus applying the instruments and insurance contracts more restrictive requirements under IAS 39.
The group has elected not to apply the requirements of IAS 32, Where comparative information is prepared on previous Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, IAS 39, accounting policies applied by Investec, note 48 details the Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS differences in those policies from the policies applied from 4, Insurance Contracts to the 2005 comparative period.
The 1 April 2005. impact of adoption of these standards is reflected as an adjustment to the opening balance sheet at 1 April 2005.
First time adoption of IFRS Compound financial instruments Comprehensive disclosure relating to the transition to IFRS is contained in note 48 on pages 227 to 237.
In accordance with The group has elected not to separate the liability and equity the transitional provisions contained in IFRS 1, the group has components of compound financial instruments for which the retrospectively adopted IFRS for the financial year ended liability component is no longer outstanding at 1 April 2005.
31 March 2006, except for certain elections made in accordance with IFRS 1 - First-time adoption of International Financial Designation of previously recognised financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1 as noted below.
instruments Elections made under IFRS 1 The group has elected to designate certain financial instruments within the scope of IAS 39 as at fair value through profit or loss The group has applied the following transition provisions as or as available for sale at 1 April 2005. contained in IFRS 1 in arriving at the opening balances: Early adoption of amendments to accounting Business combinations standards.
The group has elected not to apply IFRS 3, Business The group has adopted the 'Amendment to IAS 39: Fair value Combinations retrospectively to business combinations prior to option' with effect from 1 April 2005 and amendment to IAS 19: the date of transition 1 April 2004.
The net carrying value of Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures with goodwill at 31 March 2004 has therefore been brought forward, effect from I March 2005. except for identified intangible assets which have been separately identified and tested for impairment.
Basis of consolidation Property and equipment Investec consists of two separate legal entities, being Investec Ltd and Investec plc, that operate under a dual listed company The group has brought forward the carrying values of property, DLC structure.
The effect of the DLC structure is that Investec plant and equipment at date of transition as previously plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries determined as the carrying values are materially aligned with the operate together as a single economic entity, with neither carrying values as determined by IAS 16. assuming a dominant role.
Employee benefits Under UK GAAP the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Investec plc included the accounts of Investec plc The group has elected to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and Investec Limited combined using merger accounting.
This and losses at the date of transition to IFRS as an adjustment to treatment is perpetuated in accordance with the election under opening retained earnings.
IFRS 1 for business combinations as both Investec plc and Investec Limited and their respective subsidiaries form a single Cumulative foreign currency translation reserve reporting entity for the purposes of reporting under IFRS.
The group has elected to deem the cumulative foreign currency The comparative information presented in this report is based translation differences for foreign operations to be nil at the date on previously reported UK GAAP Investec plc incorporating of transition.
Investec Limited accounts as restated for the adoption of IFRS.
Share based payment transactions All subsidiaries in which the group holds more than one half of the voting rights or over which it has the ability to control are The group has applied the provisions of IFRS 2, Share-based
