Investec plc parent company accounts 242 Directors' Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications Independent auditors report to the for our report if we become aware of any apparent members of Investec plc misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend We have audited the parent company financial statements of to any other information.
Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes a to f. These parent Basis of audit opinion company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the We conducted our audit in accordance with International information in the Directors' Remuneration Report that is Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the We have reported separately on the group financial statements parent company financial statements and the part of the of Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, by the directors in the preparation of the parent company in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to appropriate to the company's circumstances, consistently applied the company's members those matters we are required to state and adequately disclosed.
to them in an auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the responsibility to anyone other than the company and the information and explanations which we considered necessary in company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable report, or for the opinions we have formed.
assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are Respective responsibilities of directors and free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or auditors other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, information in the parent company financial statements and the the Directors' Remuneration Report and the parent company part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Opinion Generally Accepted Accounting Practice as set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the company's to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory affairs as at 31 March 2006: requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and the parent company financial statements and the part of the Ireland.
Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent 1985. company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors' report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if Ernst & Young LLP the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have Registered auditor not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' London remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
16 June 2006 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors' Report and the unaudited part of the
