Transition to International Financial Reporting Standards d Share based payment transactions The group has applied the provisions of IFRS 2, Share Based Overview Payments retrospectively to all share-based payment From 1 April we were required to prepare our consolidated transactions granted prior to the date of transition that vest results comprising the results of Investec plc and Investec after the date of transition.
Limited in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Previously these were prepared for Investec plc e Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities incorporating the results of Investec Limited in accordance The group has elected not to apply the derecognition with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
requirements of IAS 39 to financial assets and liabilities Since 2004 Investec Limited shareholders have been provided derecognised before 1 January 2004. with the combined financial statements presented in terms of UK GAAP.
Combined SA GAAP financial statements have not been Exemption from the requirement to restate comparative provided as a frame of reference to the shareholders of Investec periods 31 March 2005 for financial instruments and Limited.
In order to ensure that information to shareholders is insurance contracts relevant and reliable the reconciliation for the combined group financial statements is from UKGAAP to IFRS.
The financial The group has elected not to apply the requirements of statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 represent the first IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, IAS 39, full year of IFRS compliant financial statements prepared by us.
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts to the 2005 comparative Our transition to IFRS has been performed in accordance with period.
The impact of adoption of these standards is IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Reporting reflected as an adjustment to the opening balance sheet at Standards and other relevant standards applicable at 1 April 2005.
To facilitate comparability, a pro-forma income statement is The following dates are applicable for the transition to IFRS: presented refer to page 17 which incorporates the impact 1 April 2004 - date of transition to IFRS, being the start of of the adoption of IAS 39 in the following respects: the earliest period of comparative information.
recognising certain fees on an effective yield basis, 31 March 2005 - twelve month comparative period to the release of general provisions on loans and advances 31 March 2006. and fair value adjustments for embedded derivatives.
This section sets out how the changes in accounting treatment under IFRS impacts on the group's previously reported The tables below present a reconciliation between IFRS restated consolidated results comprising the results of Investec plc and results and previously presented UK GAAP results for the: Investec Limited for the financial year ended 31 March 2005.
Income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005 Balance sheet at 31 March 2005 Transitional elections Balance sheet at 1 April 2005 IFRS 1 provides for certain exemptions in respect to the first time adoption of IFRS to comparative periods.
The group has applied the following exemptions: a Business combinations The group has elected not to apply IFRS 3, Business Combinations retrospectively to business combinations prior to the date of transition 1 April 2004.
The carrying value of goodwill at 31 March 2004 has therefore been brought forward, except for identified intangible assets which have been separately identified and tested for impairment.
b Employee benefits The group has elected to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses at the date of transition to IFRS as an adjustment to opening retained earnings.
c Cumulative foreign currency translation reserve The group has elected to deem the cumulative foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations to be nil at the date of transition.
Notes to the financial statements 228 48.
Transition to International Financial Reporting Standards representative of the time pattern of the user's benefits.
The continued group has previously recognised fixed rental escalations in the period in which they contractually applied.
Under IFRS these Commentary on key adjustments increments have been taken into consideration in determining a straight line cost over the term of the lease.
The net effect has IFRS 2 - share based payments been to create a payable in the earlier period of the affected The group engages in equity settled share based payments and leases which will release as the cash flows are settled.
This has in certain limited circumstances cash settled share based resulted in a net reduction to reserves which will reverse over payments in respect of services received from employees.
Under UK GAAP, where options were granted, the charge made A similar adjustment has been processed for lessors within the to profit and loss was determined as the difference between the group.
In this case a receivable is raised in the earlier period of fair value of the instrument at the time the award was made and the affected lease which will release as cash flows are received.
any contribution made by the employee.
Under IFRS, for equity However, the net effect on reserves has been minimal as IAS 40 settled options, the group recognises a charge to profit and loss Investment Properties provides that the fair value adjustment by reference to the fair value of the instrument of the option on against investment properties must be reduced by debtor the date of grant to the employee over the relevant vesting balances raised relating to operating leases on the property as to periods, based on an estimation of the amount of instruments prevent double counting of cash flows.
IAS 18 - revenue recognition IFRS 3 - business combinations Principles for revenue recognition are affected by the adoption In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, the of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement group has elected to apply IFRS 3 prospectively from in that IAS 18 incorporates the requirement to recognise fee 1 April 2004.
The carrying value of goodwill under UK GAAP at income on lending transactions that are closely related to the 31 March 2004 has therefore been brought forward, except for effective interest yield on the transaction.
Interpretation of the identified intangible assets which have been separately identified standard lends itself to the conclusion that there is a and tested for impairment.
presumption that a fee is closely related to the effective yield unless the performance of a significant act can be identified in IFRS 4 - insurance contracts which case the related fee is recognised on completion of the From 1 April 2005, assurance products have been divided into act.
investment contracts and insurance contracts.
Investment contracts are accounted for under IAS 39 and insurance In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, the contracts are accounted for under IFRS 4.
Further to these group has applied all related IAS 39 changes from 1 April 2005. reclassifications, reinsured liabilities and related assets are recognised on a gross basis on the balance sheet.
IAS 27 28 31 - consolidations associates joint ventures Under UK GAAP certain special purpose vehicles were treated IAS 10 - events after balance sheet date as jointly controlled entities.
However, under IFRS these special Under IAS 10 an entity is not permitted to adjust assets and purpose vehicles do not meet the control or jointly controlled liabilities at balance sheet date for events that are indicative of definitions to require consolidation or joint venture accounting.
conditions that arose subsequent to the balance sheet date.
The To this end, the partial consolidation under UK GAAP has been impact of adoption of IAS 10 is that dividends declared by the reversed on adoption of IFRS.
IFRS requires special purpose group are no longer recognised in the period in which the vehicles to be consolidated where they are in substance earnings relate but rather are only recognised when they are no controlled by the entity.
This has resulted in the consolidation of longer at the discretion of the entity.
certain investment vehicles in the group that were previously recorded as external investments.
IAS 17 - leases In the South African economy it is common practice for IAS 32 39 - financial instruments operating lease agreements to incorporate fixed rental escalation In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, the clauses.
Under the provisions of IAS 17, lease payments under group has elected not to restate comparative information for the operating leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line adoption of IAS 32 39.
Following the adoption of IAS 32 39 basis over the lease term unless another systematic basis is more financial instruments have been classified as follows: 237 48.
Transition to International Financial Reporting Standards On the balance sheet financial assets and financial liabilities continued are offset and presented on a net basis only where a legal right to settle net exists and the group has the intention to Financial assets are classified with the related measurement basis settle net.
This has resulted in an increase in gross assets and as noted below: liabilities related to derivative instruments which were Loan or receivable - measured at amortised cost less previously netted on the basis of legal right of set off with no impairment.
reference to the intention of the group.
Fair value through profit and loss - fair value gains and losses included in profit and loss.
IAS 40 - investment properties Available for sale - fair value gains and losses included directly Under UK GAAP investment properties were carried at fair in equity until disposal or impairment.
value with fair value movements recognised directly in equity.
Held to maturity - amortised cost less impairment.
With the adoption of IFRS fair value adjustments on investment properties are recognised in profit and loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading, designated as held at fair value or are carried at amortised cost.
Cash flow information On adoption of IFRS, the group redefined the definition of cash The following key adjustments have arisen from adoption of the and cash equivalents to include cash and balances at central standard: banks, on demand loans and advances to banks and cash Banking book derivatives which were previously recognised equivalent advances to customers.
These components are on an accrual basis are recognised at fair value through profit disclosed on the cash flow statement on page 164. and loss.
To minimise the effect of volatility as a result of these fair value adjustments the group has applied: Hedge accounting were possible, or In circumstances were hedge accounting could not be applied, the group has designated as held at fair value through profit and loss related financial assets and liabilities where a clear intention to hedge could be demonstrated.
Fair value of embedded derivatives.
Embedded derivatives represent the derivative component of a hybrid instrument which contains both a derivative and a non-derivative component.
Where the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to those of the host contract, and the host contract itself is not recognised at fair value, the embedded derivative is separated from the host contract and recognised at fair value through profit and loss.
Fair value of banking book equity positions which were previously held at cost or where applicable adjusted for permanent diminution.
The majority of these banking book equity positions have now been treated as available for sale instruments.
The reversal of general provisions raised, with an increase in specific impairments due to the discounting of expected cash flows.
Further a portfolio impairment has been raised where there is evidence of an incurred impairment on a homogeneous portfolio of loans and advances based on historical data.
In circumstances where gross equity settled options are acquired or sold in relation to the group's own equity, any premium received or paid is treated as a direct adjustment to equity.
