Notes to the financial statements 165 Payment retrospectively to all share-based payment transactions 1.
Accounting policies granted prior to the date of transition but that vest after the date of transition.
Basis of presentation Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The group financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and International The group has elected not to apply the derecognition Accounting Standards collectively, IFRS, as adopted for use by requirements of IAS 39 to financial assets and liabilities the European Union EU.
IFRSs as endorsed by the EU are derecognised before 1 January 2004. identical to current IFRSs except for the EU's amendment to IAS 39, under which the application of hedge accounting Exemption from the requirement to restate requirements have been simplified.
The group has elected not to comparative periods 31 March 2005 for financial apply the amendments as adopted by the EU, thus applying the instruments and insurance contracts more restrictive requirements under IAS 39.
The group has elected not to apply the requirements of IAS 32, Where comparative information is prepared on previous Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, IAS 39, accounting policies applied by Investec, note 48 details the Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS differences in those policies from the policies applied from 4, Insurance Contracts to the 2005 comparative period.
The 1 April 2005. impact of adoption of these standards is reflected as an adjustment to the opening balance sheet at 1 April 2005.
First time adoption of IFRS Compound financial instruments Comprehensive disclosure relating to the transition to IFRS is contained in note 48 on pages 227 to 237.
In accordance with The group has elected not to separate the liability and equity the transitional provisions contained in IFRS 1, the group has components of compound financial instruments for which the retrospectively adopted IFRS for the financial year ended liability component is no longer outstanding at 1 April 2005.
31 March 2006, except for certain elections made in accordance with IFRS 1 - First-time adoption of International Financial Designation of previously recognised financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1 as noted below.
instruments Elections made under IFRS 1 The group has elected to designate certain financial instruments within the scope of IAS 39 as at fair value through profit or loss The group has applied the following transition provisions as or as available for sale at 1 April 2005. contained in IFRS 1 in arriving at the opening balances: Early adoption of amendments to accounting Business combinations standards.
The group has elected not to apply IFRS 3, Business The group has adopted the 'Amendment to IAS 39: Fair value Combinations retrospectively to business combinations prior to option' with effect from 1 April 2005 and amendment to IAS 19: the date of transition 1 April 2004.
The net carrying value of Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures with goodwill at 31 March 2004 has therefore been brought forward, effect from I March 2005. except for identified intangible assets which have been separately identified and tested for impairment.
Basis of consolidation Property and equipment Investec consists of two separate legal entities, being Investec Ltd and Investec plc, that operate under a dual listed company The group has brought forward the carrying values of property, DLC structure.
The effect of the DLC structure is that Investec plant and equipment at date of transition as previously plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries determined as the carrying values are materially aligned with the operate together as a single economic entity, with neither carrying values as determined by IAS 16. assuming a dominant role.
Employee benefits Under UK GAAP the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Investec plc included the accounts of Investec plc The group has elected to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and Investec Limited combined using merger accounting.
This and losses at the date of transition to IFRS as an adjustment to treatment is perpetuated in accordance with the election under opening retained earnings.
IFRS 1 for business combinations as both Investec plc and Investec Limited and their respective subsidiaries form a single Cumulative foreign currency translation reserve reporting entity for the purposes of reporting under IFRS.
The group has elected to deem the cumulative foreign currency The comparative information presented in this report is based translation differences for foreign operations to be nil at the date on previously reported UK GAAP Investec plc incorporating of transition.
Investec Limited accounts as restated for the adoption of IFRS.
Share based payment transactions All subsidiaries in which the group holds more than one half of the voting rights or over which it has the ability to control are The group has applied the provisions of IFRS 2, Share-based Accounting policies 166 consolidated from the effective dates of acquisition that is from Goodwill arising is denominated in the functional currency of the when control exists and up to the effective dates of loss of foreign operation and is translated to the presentation currency control, except entities which are classified as non-current assets of the group pound sterling at the applicable closing rate.
Subsidiaries classified as non-current assets held for sale are consolidated as discontinued operations.
Share based payments to employees The combined consolidated financial statements include the attributable share of the results and reserves of associated The group engages in equity settled share-based payments and undertakings.
The group's interests in associated undertakings in certain limited circumstances cash-settled share-based are included in the consolidated balance sheet at the group's payments in respect of services received from employees.
share of net assets of the associate plus goodwill arising on acquisition, less any impairment recognised on the investment.
The fair value of the services received in respect of equity settled share-based payments is determined by reference to the fair Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings, in which the group value of the shares or share options on the date of grant to the exercises significant influence over operating and financial employee.
The cost of the share based payment is recognised policies, are treated as associates.
In the group accounts, over the vesting period of the grant in the income statement on associates are accounted for using the equity method from the a straight-line basis, based on an estimate of the number of date that significant influence commences until the date that instruments that will eventually vest.
significant influence ceases, except as noted below.
A liability and expense in respect of cash settled share based In circumstances where associates or joint venture holdings arise payments is recognised over the vesting period of the grant in in which the group has no strategic intention, these investments the income statement on a straight-line basis, based on the fair are classified as venture capital holdings and are designated as value of the liability that will eventually vest.
The liability is held at fair value through profit and loss.
recognised at the current fair value as at each balance sheet date, based on an estimate of the number of instruments that will All intergroup balances and unrealised gains and losses within the eventually vest.
Subsequent to vesting the liability is measured at group are eliminated to the extent that they do not reflect an fair value, with gains and losses recognised in the profit and loss impairment in the asset.
account until such time as the liability is settled.
Segmental reporting Fair value measurements are based on option pricing models, taking into account the risk-free interest rate, volatility of the A segment is a distinguishable component of the group engaged underlying equity instrument, expected dividends and current in providing products or services within a particular economic share prices.
environment which is subject to risks and rewards that are distinguishable from those of other segments.
Foreign currency transactions and foreign operations The group's primary segmental reporting is presented in the form of a business analysis primary segment.
The presentation currency of the group is sterling, being the functional currency of Investec plc.
The functional currency of The business analysis is presented in terms of the group's five Investec Limited is South African Rand.
principal business divisions and Group Services and Other Activities.
Foreign operations are subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures or branches of the group, the activities of which are based in a A geographical analysis is presented in terms of the main functional currency other than that of reporting entity.
The geographies in which the group operates representing the functional currency of group entities is determined based on the group's exposure to various economic environments.
primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
Goodwill On consolidation, the results and financial position of foreign operations are translated into the presentation currency of the Goodwill represents the net excess of the purchase group as follows: consideration over the fair value of net identifiable assets of assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are entities acquired.
Goodwill is capitalised and tested for translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: impairment at balance sheet dates or when there is an indication income and expense items are translated at exchange rates of impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for ruling at the date of the transaction: the purposes of testing impairment based on the synergies all resulting exchange differences are recognised in equity expected in the business combination, with any impairments foreign currency translation reserve, which is recognised in arising being recognised immediately in the income statement.
profit and loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
Impairments recognised are not reversed in subsequent periods.
cash flow items are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
In circumstances where the group acquires an interest in the net fair value of the acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional contingent liabilities over cost, the group reassess the currency of the entity in which the transaction arises based on identification and measurement of all assets and liabilities rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
At each including contingent liabilities following which any remaining balance sheet date foreign currency items are translated as excess is recognised immediately in profit and loss.. follows: foreign currency monetary items other than monetary 167 items that form part of the net investment in a foreign Financial instruments classified as held for trading or designated operation are translated using closing rates, with gains and as held at fair value through profit and loss are recorded at fair losses recognised in profit and loss: value on the balance sheet with changes in fair value recognised exchange differences arising on monetary items that form in the income statement.
Financial instruments are classified as part of the net investment in a foreign operation are trading when they are held with the intention of short-term translated using closing rates and recognised as a separate disposal, held with intention of generating short-term profits, or component of equity foreign currency translation reserve are derivatives which are not designated as part of effective upon consolidation, and is recognised in the income hedges.
Financial instruments designated as held at fair value statement upon disposal of the net investment: through profit and loss are designated as such on initial non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost recognition of the instrument or on initial adoption of IFRS and are translated using the exchange rates ruling at the date of remain in this classification until derecognition.
Financial assets and liabilities are designated as held at fair value Revenue recognition through profit and loss only if: it eliminates or significantly reduces an inconsistent Interest income is recognised in the income statement using the measurement or recognition that would otherwise arise effective interest method.
Fees charged on lending transactions from measuring assets or liabilities or recognising the gains are included in the effective yield calculation to the extent that and losses on them on different bases: or they form an integral part of the effective interest yield, but a group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both is excludes those fees earned for a separately identifiable significant managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value act, which are recognised upon completion of the act.
Fees and basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or commissions charged in lieu of interest are recognized as income investment strategy, and information about the group is as part of the effective interest rate on the underlying loan.
provided internally on that bases to the group's key management personnel: and The effective interest method is based on the estimated life of if a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives the underlying instrument, and, where this estimate is not readily which significantly modifies the cash flows that would be available, the contractual life.
required by the contract and is not clearly prohibited from separation from the host contract and the group has Commissions and fees include fees earned from providing designated the entire hybrid contract as a financial advisory services as well as portfolio management.
All such instrument at fair value through profit and loss.
commissions and fees are recognised as revenue when the related services are performed.
Fees and commission income are Held-to-maturity assets only recognised when they can be estimated reliably.
Held to maturity assets are non-derivative financial instruments Principal transaction income includes trading profits, gains and with fixed or determinable payments and maturity dates.
losses on financial assets and liabilities designated as held at fair Financial assets that the group has the positive intent and ability value and fair value gains and losses on investment properties.
to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity and are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, Trading profits are shown net of the funding cost of the less impairment losses.
underlying positions and includes the unrealised profits on trading portfolios, which are marked to market daily.
Equity Loans and receivables investments received in lieu of corporate finance fees are included in trading securities and valued accordingly.
Trading Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with profits gross of funding costs is disclosed in note 3. fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and exclude the following: Financial instruments those that the group intends to trade in, which are classified as held for trading, and those that the group designates as at Financial instruments are initially recognised at their fair value, fair value through profit and loss: plus in the case of financial assets or financial liabilities not at fair those that the group designates as available for sale: and value through profit and loss, transaction costs that are directly those for which the holder may not recover substantially all attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or of its initial investment, other than because of credit financial liability.
Regular way purchase and sales transactions in respect of Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost less financial assets that require delivery of a financial instrument impairment losses subsequent to initial recognition.
within the time frame established by market convention are recorded at trade date.
Available for sale assets Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value Financial assets classified as available for sale are measured at fair through profit and loss value on the balance sheet, with unrealised gains and losses recognised in equity.
Realised gains and losses are recognised in Financial instruments held at fair value through profit and loss income in the period in which the asset is realised.
include all instruments classified as held as trading and those If an available for sale instrument is determined to be impaired, instruments designated as held at fair value through profit and the respective cumulative unrealised losses previously recognised loss.
in equity are included in the income statement in the period in Accounting policies 168 which the impairment is identified.
distributable to non distributable reserves, being the regulatory general risk reserve.
The non distributable regulatory general risk Impairment losses on available for sale equity instruments are reserve ensures that minimum regulatory provisioning not reversed once recognised in the income statement requirements are maintained.
Financial liabilities Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as non-trading, held for trading or A financial asset or a portion thereof, is derecognised when the designated as held at fair value through profit and loss.
group's rights to cash flows has expired: or when he group has transferred its rights to cash flows relating to the financial assets, Non-trading liabilities are recorded at amortised cost applying including the transfer of substantially all the risk and rewards the effective interest method.
associated with the financial assets or when control over the financial assets has passed.
Held for trading liabilities or liabilities designated as held at fair value through profit and loss, are accounted for as indicated A financial liability is derecognised when it is extinguished, that is above.
when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Valuation of financial instruments Derivative instruments and hedge accounting The following financial instruments are held at fair value: All derivative instruments of the group are recorded on balance Fixed maturity securities classified as trading, held at fair value sheet at fair value.
Positive and negative fair values are reported through profit or loss and available for sale, as assets and liabilities respectively and are offset when there is Equity securities, both an intention to settle net and a legal right to offset exists.
Private equity investments, Derivative positions, Derivative positions are entered into either for trading purposes Loans and advances designated as held at fair value through or as part of the group's asset and liability management activities profit and loss available for sale, and to manage exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risks.
Financial liabilities classified as trading or designated as held Both realised and unrealised gains and losses arising on at fair value through profit and loss derivatives are recognised in the income statement as part of trading income other than circumstances in which cash flow Where available, market prices provide the best basis of fair hedging is applied as detailed below.
Where market prices are not available, the fair value is determined by discounting the expected cash flows, using The group applies either fair value or cash flow hedge accounting market interest rates taking into account the credit quality and when the transactions meet the specified hedge accounting duration of the investment.
In certain instances model pricing criteria.
To meet hedge accounting treatment, the group ensures may be used to determine fair values.
For private equity that all of the following conditions are met: investments that are not publicly traded, management uses At inception of the hedge the group formally documents the comparisons to similar companies, relevant third party arm's relationship between the hedging instrument s and hedged length transactions and other information specific to the item s including the risk management objectives and the investment.
strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction.
The hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving Impairments of financial assets held at amortised offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to cost the hedged risk, consistent with the originally documented risk management strategy for that particular hedging Financial assets carried at amortised cost are impaired if there is relationship.
objective evidence that the group would not receive cash flows For cash flow hedges, a forecasted transaction that is the according to the original contractual terms.
Financial assets are subject of the hedge must be highly probable and must assessed for objective evidence of impairment at least at each present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could balance sheet reporting date.
The test for impairment is based ultimately affect profit and loss.
either on specific financial assets or collectively on a portfolio of The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured, i. e. similar, homogeneous assets.
An impairment is credited against the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item that are the carrying value of financial assets.
The impairment is calculated attributable to the hedged risk and the fair value of the as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the hedging instrument can be reliably measured.
expected cash flows discounted at the original effective rate.
An The hedge effectiveness is assessed on an ongoing basis and impairment is only reversed when there is objective evidence determined actually to have been highly effective throughout that the credit quality has improved to the extent that there is the financial reporting periods for which the hedge was reasonable assurance of timely collection of principal and interest designated.
in terms of the original contractual agreement.
Assets specifically identified as impaired are removed from the portfolio Hedge accounting is discontinued when it is determined that the assessment.
derivative ceases to be highly effective as a hedge: the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: when the hedge item To cater for any shortfall between regulatory provision matures or is sold or repaid: or when a forecasted transaction is requirements in the respective jurisdictions and impairments no longer deemed highly probable.
based on the principles above, a transfer is made from 169 For qualifying fair value hedges, the change in fair value of the received are included in shareholders' equity.
hedging derivative is recognised in the income statement.
Changes in fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction the hedged risk are also recognised in the income statement.
from equity in the period in which they are declared to the Investec plc shareholders in relation to dividends declared by For qualifying cash flow hedges in respect of non-financial assets Investec plc and Investec Limited shareholders in relation to and liabilities, the change in fair value of the hedging derivative is Investec Limited shareholders.
initially recognised in equity and is released to the initial cost of any asset liability recognised or in all other cases, to the income Sale and repurchase agreements including statement when the hedged firm commitment or forecasted securities borrowing and lending transaction affects net profit.
Where securities are sold subject to a commitment to For qualifying cash flow hedges in respect of financial assets and repurchase them, they remain on balance sheet.
Proceeds liabilities, the change in fair value of the hedging derivative, which received are recorded as a liability on balance sheet under represents an effective hedge, is initially recognised in equity and repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent.
is released to the income statement in the same periods during Securities that are purchased under a commitment to resell the which the relevant financial asset or liability affects profit or loss.
securities at a future date are not recognised on the balance Any ineffective portion of the hedge is immediately recognised sheet.
The consideration paid is recognised as an asset under in profit and loss.
reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed.
Derivative instruments transacted as economic hedges but which do not qualify for hedge accounting and derivatives that Securities lending and borrowing transactions that are not cash are entered into for trading purposes are treated in the same collateralised are not included in the balance sheet.
Securities way as instruments that are held for trading.
lending and borrowing transactions which are cash collateralised are accounted for in the same manner as securities sold or To the extent that a derivative may be embedded in a host purchased subject to repurchase commitments.
contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in the income statement, the Instalment credit, leases and rental embedded derivative is separated from the host contract and agreements accounted for as a standalone derivative if and only if: The economic characteristics and risks of the embedded Where classified as a finance lease, amounts outstanding on derivative are not closely related to the economic these contracts, net of unearned finance charges, are included in characteristics and risks of the host contract.
loans and advances where the entity is the lessor and included in A separate instrument with the same terms as the liabilities where the entity is the lessee.
Finance charges on embedded derivative would meet the definition of a finance leases and instalment credit transactions are credited or derivative.
debited to income in proportion to the capital balances outstanding at the rate implicit in the agreement.
Offsetting of assets and liabilities Where classified as operating leases, rentals payable receivable under operating leases are charged credited in the profit and loss Financial assets and liabilities are offset when there is both an account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Contingent intention to settle on a net basis or simultaneously and a legal rentals if any are accrued to profit and loss account when right to offset exists.
Issued debt and equity financial instruments Property and equipment Financial instruments issued by the group are classified as Property and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated liabilities if they contain an obligation to transfer economic depreciation and impairments.
Financial instruments issued by the group are classified as equity where they confer on the holder a residual interest in Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of each the group.
The components of compound issued financial component on a straight-line basis over the anticipated useful life instruments are accounted for separately with the liability of the asset.
The depreciable amount related to each asset is component separated first and any residual amount being determined as the difference between the cost and the residual allocated to the equity component.
The residual value is the estimated amount, net of disposal costs that the group would currently obtain from the Equity instruments issued by subsidiaries of Investec plc or disposal of an asset in similar age and condition as expected at Investec Ltd are recorded as minority interests on balance sheet.
the end of its useful life of the asset.
Equity instruments are initially measured net of directly attributable issue costs.
Treasury shares represent issued equity repurchased by the group which have not been cancelled.
Treasury shares are deducted from shareholders' equity and represent the purchase consideration, including directly attributable costs.
Where treasury shares are subsequently sold or reissued, net proceeds Accounting policies 170 The current annual depreciation rates for each class of property Taxation and deferred taxation and equipment is as follows: Computer and related equipment 20-33% Current taxation is provided on taxable profits at rates that are Motor vehicles 20-25% enacted or substantively enacted and applicable to the relevant Furniture and fittings 10-20% period.
Freehold buildings 2% Leasehold improvements Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet method on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an Leasehold improvements depreciation rates are determined asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base, except by reference to the appropriate useful life of its separate where such temporary differences arise from: components, limited to the period of the lease.
The initial recognition of goodwill The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction No depreciation is provided on freehold land, however, similar to which is not a business combination and at the time of the other property related assets, it is subject to impairment testing transaction has no effect on profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets or liabilities are measured using the tax rates Routine servicing and maintenance of assets are expensed as that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance incurred.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised if it is sheet date.
probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the group.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which Investment property the asset can be utilised.
Properties held by the group which are held for capital Insurance contracts appreciation or rental yield are classified as investment properties.
Investment properties are carried on balance sheet Insurance contracts are those contracts in which the group at fair value, with fair value gains and losses recognised in the assumes significant insurance risk.
The deposit components of income statement under principal transactions.
insurance contracts are unbundled and accounted for separately.
Fair value of investment property is calculated by taking into Insurance premiums are recognised in income in the period in account the expected rental stream associated with the which the group is entitled to the premium.
Insurance claims are property, and is supported by market evidence.
recognised in the income statement in the period in which a contractual obligation arises for the group to make payment Impairment of non-financial assets under an insurance contract.
At each balance sheet date the group reviews the carrying value Reinsurance assets and liabilities and associated premiums of non-financial assets for indication of impairment.
The claims are not offset in the income statement or balance sheet.
recoverable amount, being the lower of selling price and value in use, is determined for any assets for which an indication of Insurance liabilities are measured at their actuarial values, and are impairment is identified.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is tested for adequacy on an annual basis.
Any deficiency identified less than its carrying value, the carrying value of the asset is is recognised in the income statement.
reduced to its recoverable value.
Employee benefits Impairment losses are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are identified.
Reversal of The group operates various defined contribution schemes and impairment losses is recognised in income in the period in which two closed defined benefit schemes.
the reversal is identified, to the extent that the asset is not revalued to a carrying value higher than that would have been In respect of the defined contribution scheme all employer calculated without impairment.
contributions are charged to income, as incurred in accordance with the rules of the scheme, and included under staff costs.
Trust and fiduciary activities The assets of the defined benefit schemes are measured at their The group acts as a trustee or in other fiduciary capacities that market value at the balance sheet date and the liabilities of the result in the holding, placing or managing of assets for the schemes are measured using the projected unit credit method.
account of and at the risk of clients.
The discount rate used to measure the schemes' liabilities is the current rate of return on an AA corporate bond at the balance As these are not assets of the group, they are not reflected on sheet date of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.
The the balance sheet but are included at market value as part of extent to which the schemes' assets exceed or fall short of the assets under administration.
schemes' liabilities is shown as a surplus or deficit in the balance sheet to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
Actuarial gains and losses related to the defined benefit asset or liability are recognised immediately directly in equity.
The group has no liabilities for other post retirement benefits.
171 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement - Intangible assets Cash flow hedge accounting of forecast intragroup transactions effective for the financial year beginning 1 April 2006 Intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairments.
This amendment is not anticipated to be utilised by the group.
For intangible assets with a finite life, depreciation is provided on IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition the depreciable amount of each intangible assets on a straightand Measurement - Financial guarantee line basis over the anticipated useful life of the asset.
The contracts effective for the financial year depreciable amount related to each intangible asset is beginning 1 April 2006 determined as the difference between the cost and the residual value of the asset.
The residual value is the estimated amount, net The amendment clarifies that the issuer of financial guarantee of disposal costs, which the group would currently obtain from contracts initially records the contract at fair value and the disposal of an intangible asset in similar age and condition as subsequently measures in accordance with IAS 37, adjusted for expected at the end of its useful life.
accumulated amortisation of the amount initially recorded.
Intangible assets with an indefinite life are not depreciated, This amendment is not expected to result in a material however they are tested for impairment on an annual basis.
adjustment to current recognition and measurement criteria applied by the group.
Assets held for sale Key management assumptions An asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than In preparation of the financial statements the group makes through continuing use.
Assets held for sale and affected by the estimations and applies judgment that could affect the reported measurement requirement of IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Key for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured at the areas in which judgment is applied include: lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Valuation of unlisted investments in the private equity and direct investments portfolios.
Key valuation inputs are based Borrowing costs on observable market inputs, adjusted for factors that specifically apply to the individual investments and Borrowing costs in respect of property developments that take recognising market volatility.
a substantial period of time to get ready for sale are capitalised.
Valuation of investment properties is performed twice Provisions, contingent liabilities and annually by directors that are sworn valuators.
The valuation contingent assets is performed by capitalising the budgeted net income of a property at the market related yield applicable at the time.
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount, and are recognised as soon as the group has created a legal or constructive obligation which will lead to an outflow of economic resources to settle the obligation as a result of a past event.
Contingent assets and contingent liabilities are not recognised.
Standards and interpretations not yet effective The following standards and interpretations which have been issued but are not yet effective, are applicable to the group.
These standards and interpretations have not been applied in these financial statements.
The group intends to comply with these standards from the effective dates IFRS 7 - Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective for the financial year beginning 1 April 2007 The standard is related to disclosure requirements for financial instruments and replaces IAS 30 Disclosures in the Financial Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions and elements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
Adoption of the standard will change the format of disclosure presented but will not affect recognition or measurement criteria as currently applied.
