155 policies are set out on pages 165 to 171.
Directors responsibility statement Creditor payment policy The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditor's report set out on page 156, is made with a The group's standard practice is to agree the terms of payment view to distinguishing for stakeholders the respective with suppliers at the time of contract and make payments within responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the agreed credit terms, subject to satisfactory performance.
Employees Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view The group's policy is to recruit and promote on the basis of of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of aptitude and ability, without discrimination of any kind.
the company for that financial year.
Applications for employment by disabled people are always considered bearing in mind the qualifications and abilities of the The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements applicants.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every on pages 158 to 164, and 172 to 249 and the additional effort is made to ensure their continued employment.
The information contained on pages 02 to 36, the company has used group's policy is to adopt an open management style, thereby appropriate accounting policies which have been consistently encouraging informal consultation at all levels about aspects of applied and have been supported by reasonable and prudent the group's operations, and motivating staff involvement in the judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards group's performance by means of Employee Share Schemes.
which the directors consider to be applicable have been followed.
Donations The financial statements of the company have been prepared on During the year, Investec plc made donations for charitable the going concern basis.
The directors are of the opinion, based purposes, totalling 1.1 million and Investec Limited made on their knowledge of the company, key processes in operation donations for charitable purposes, totalling 1.6 million.
Investec and specific enquiries, that adequate resources exist to support group made no political donations during the year.
the company on a going concern basis over the next year.
Environment The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The group is committed to pursuing sound environmental financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure policies in all aspects of its business and seeks to encourage and that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act promote good environmental practice among its employees and 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the within the community in which it operates.
Further information company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the on the groups sustainability practices can be found on pages 121 prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Furthermore, as far as the directors are aware, there is no Subsequent events relevant audit information of which the companies auditors are unaware.
All steps which ought to have been taken as directors, have been completed in order to be aware of the relevant audit information and to establish that the companies auditors are aware of that information.
Signed on behalf of the board Richard Vardy Selwyn Noik Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Company Secretary Company Secretary Chief Executive Officer Managing Director Investec plc Investec Limited 16 June 2006 16 June 2006
