Accounting Policies Basis of preparation adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
The Group consolidated financial statements have been When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other the revaluation of available-for-sale investments and derivative unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further financial instruments and using accounting policies and losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments presentation, which comply with International Financial on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest Basis of consolidation in the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Accounting policies of associates have been and losses of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated as changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the from the effective date of acquisition or to the effective date of policies adopted by the Group.
Segment reporting Subsidiaries A business segment is a group of assets and operations Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the engaged in providing services that are subject to risks and power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to returns that are different from those of other business obtain economic benefits and generally accompanying a segments.
shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are A geographical segment is engaged in providing services currently exercisable or convertible are considered when within a particular economic environment that are subject to assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
risks and returns that are different from those of segments Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which operating in other economic environments.
control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Foreign currencies Functional and presentation currency The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an Items included in the financial statements of each of the acquisition is measured, as the fair value of the assets given, Groups entities are measured using the currency of the equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at primary economic environment in which the entity operates the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the the functional currency.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Parent contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are Companys functional and presentation currency.
measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, Transactions and balances irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of from the settlement of such transactions and from the the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets recognised directly in the income statement.
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by non-monetary items, such as equities classified as availablethe Group.
for-sale financial assets, are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
Associates Group companies Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant The results and financial position of all the Group entities none influence but not control, generally accompanying a of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
have a functional currency different from the presentation Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity currency are translated into the presentation currency as method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
follows: The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or sheet: losses are recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves are recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are 50 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 ii income and expenses for each income statement are Capitalised employment contract payments translated at average exchange rates unless this average The Group makes payments to certain key employees in is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect recognition of them signing a long-term employment contact, of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which usually three to five years.
These payments are capitalised as case income and expenses are translated at the dates of intangible assets since legal rights protect the expected the transactions : and benefits that the Group will derive from the contracts.
The asset recognised is then amortised over the duration of iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a the underlying contract.
Other On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of For acquisitions completed after 1st January 2004 the borrowings and other currency instruments designated as business acquired is reviewed to identify assets that meet the hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
definition of an intangible asset per IAS 38.
Examples of such When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences assets include customer contracts and expectations of are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or business renewal.
These assets are valued on the basis of the loss on sale.
present value of future cash flows and are amortised to the income statement over the life of the contract or their Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition estimated economic life.
The current maximum estimated of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the economic life is ten years.
foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Impairment of assets Goodwill arising on consolidation Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment assets of the acquired subsidiary associate at the date of whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is shown the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment separately on the Balance Sheet.
Goodwill on acquisitions of loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying associates is included in investments in associates.
amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed prior to 1st January amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell 1998 is written off directly to reserves.
Following the adoption and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, of IFRS this goodwill remains written off to reserves and no assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are adjustment would be made on subsequent disposal.
For separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
acquisitions completed on or after 1st January 1998 and Property, plant and equipment before 1st January 2004, goodwill is stated on the Balance Assets are stated at their net book value historical cost less Sheet at its previously amortised net book value.
Depreciation is calculated to write For acquisitions completed on or after 1st January 2004, off the cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives.
goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost The principal rates of depreciation are as follows: less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill Freehold land and buildings: - between 0% and 2% per relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cashannum.
generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Cash Leasehold improvements: - between 10% and 20% per generating units represent the lowest level of geographical and annum or over the life of the lease.
business segment combinations that the Group uses for Furniture and office equipment: - between 10% and 20% internal reporting purposes.
Intangible assets Computer hardware: - between 20% and 100% per Computer software annum.
Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the Motor vehicles: - between 25% and 33 1 3% per annum.
basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include the software development employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives not exceeding three years.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 51 Group Financial Statements Accounting Policies Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, Available-for-sale financial assets on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of Available-for-sale financial assets are categorised according to assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the their nature into one of two categories: consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred 1 Investments and deposits, which consist mainly of Bonds, income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in Commercial Paper and Fixed Deposits - these investments a transaction other than a business combination that at the time are held at fair value and are classified between current and of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or non-current assets according to maturity date.
loss, it is not recognised.
Deferred income tax is determined 2 Other investments, which include securities and other using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or investments held for strategic purposes - these investments substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are are held fair at value unless a fair value cannot be accurately expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is determined in which case they are held at cost less any realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax is charged or credited to equity in respect Interest on deposits and interest-bearing investments is credited of any items, which is itself either charged or credited directly to as it is earned.
Any subsequent recognition of the deferred gain or loss Employee benefit trust in the consolidated income statement is accompanied by the The Group operates a deferred compensation scheme by way of corresponding deferred income tax.
Investments held by this Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is scheme, which are principally represented by Unit Trusts, are probable that future taxable profit will be available against which classified as fixed assets on the balance sheets and charged to the temporary differences can be utilised.
the Group profit and loss account over the vesting periods of the award.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Insurance broking debtors and creditors Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary Insurance brokers act as agents in placing the insurable risks of difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not their clients with insurers and, as such, are not liable as reverse in the foreseeable future.
principals for amounts arising from such transactions.
In recognition of this relationship, debtors from insurance broking Employee benefits transactions are not included as an asset of the Group.
Other Pension costs than the receivable for fees and commissions earned on a The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension transaction, no recognition of the insurance transaction occurs schemes, and a number of employees are members of defined until the Group receives cash in respect of premiums or claims, contribution pension schemes.
at which time a corresponding liability is established in favour of the insurer or the client.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, In certain circumstances, the Group advances premiums, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of refunds or claims to insurance underwriters or clients prior to service and compensation.
These advances are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as part of trade receivables.
Full actuarial valuations of the Groups main defined benefit schemes are carried out at least every three years.
A qualified Cash and cash equivalents independent actuary updates these valuations to 31st December Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held each year.
For the purposes of these annual updates, scheme at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with assets are included at market value and scheme liabilities are original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method: shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance these liabilities are discounted at the current rate of return on an sheet.
AA corporate bond of equivalent currency and term.
The defined benefit surplus or deficit is included on the Groups balance Borrowings sheet.
Surpluses are included only to the extent that they are Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group recoverable through reduced contributions in the future or has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at through refunds from the schemes.
The current service cost and least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowings are any past service costs are included in the income statement measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate within salaries and associated expenses and the expected return method.
on the schemes assets, net of the impact of the unwinding of the discount on scheme liabilities, is included within finance Deferred income tax costs.
Actuarial gains and losses, including differences between The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year at the expected and actual return on scheme assets, are current rates of tax and takes into account deferred tax.
recognised through the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
52 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which Non-recurring items the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Items of a non-recurring and material nature are charged or The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay credited to operating profit and are classified to the further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets appropriate income statement headings.
To assist in the to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service analysis and understanding of the underlying trading position in the current and prior periods.
of the Group these items are summarised within the Operating Profit, note 4 on page 63, under the heading of exceptional The costs of the Groups defined contribution pension items.
schemes are charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
Leased assets Assets held under leasing agreements, which transfer Share-based compensation substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based Group are included in property, plant and equipment.
The fair value of the employee services The capital elements of the related lease obligations are received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised included in liabilities.
The interest elements of the lease as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the obligations are charged to the income statement over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of period of the lease term.
the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as assumptions about the number of options that are expected operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the entity net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to revises its estimates of the number of options that are the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of of the lease.
the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income Derivative financial instruments statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any The Group only enters into derivative financial instruments in directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share order to hedge underlying exposures.
capital nominal value and share premium when the options Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair are exercised.
value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of Provisions for liabilities and charges recognising the resulting gain or loss is dependent on the The Group discounts provisions to their present value.
nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates The unwinding of the provision discounting is included an certain derivatives as either a hedge of the fair value of a interest charge within finance costs in the income statement.
recognised asset or liability fair value hedge, or a hedge of a A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, forecasted transaction or of the foreign currency risk on a firm whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for commitment cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment which it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be in a foreign entity.
required to settle the obligation and a reasonable estimate can Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and be made of the amount of the obligation.
qualify as fair value hedges and that are highly effective, are recorded in the consolidated income statement, along with Fees and commissions any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability Fees and commissions are derived from two principal sources: that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Insurance broking Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and Income relating to insurance broking is brought into account at qualify as cash flow hedges and that are highly effective, are the later of, the policy inception date or when the policy recognised in hedging reserves.
Where the forecasted placement has been completed and confirmed.
Where there is transaction or firm commitment results in the recognition of a an expectation of future servicing requirements an element of non-financial asset or of a non-financial liability, the gains and income relating to the policy is deferred to cover the losses previously deferred in hedging reserves are transferred associated contractual obligation.
from hedging reserves and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, amounts Other services deferred in hedging reserves are transferred to the Fees and other income receivable are recognised in the period consolidated income statement and classified as income or which they relate and when they can be measured with expense in the same periods during which the hedged firm reasonable certainty.
commitment or forecasted transaction affects the consolidated income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in hedging reserves at that time remains in the hedging reserves and is recognised when the committed or forecasted transaction ultimately is Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 53 Group Financial Statements Accounting Policies recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When a d Pension obligations committed or forecasted transaction is no longer expected to The present value of the pension obligations depends on a occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in number of factors that are determined on an actuarial hedging reserves is immediately transferred to the basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions consolidated income statement.
used in determining the net cost income for pensions include the expected long-term rate of return on the Dividend distribution relevant plans assets and the discount rate.
Any changes Dividends proposed or declared after the balance sheet date in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of are not recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
dividends are recognised as a charge to equity once approved The expected return on plan assets assumption is and interim dividends are charged once paid.
determined on a uniform basis, taking into consideration Critical accounting estimates and judgements long-term historical returns, asset allocation and future estimates of long-term investment returns.
The Group Estimates and judgments used in preparing the financial determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of statements are continually evaluated and are based on each year.
This is the interest rate that should be used to historical experience and other factors, including expectations determine the present value of estimated future cash of future events that are believed to be reasonable.
The outflows expected to be required to settle the pension resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in liabilities are discussed below.
which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to a Property, plant and equipment maturity approximating the terms of the related pension Assets are carried at historical cost less depreciation liability.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are calculated to write off the cost of such assets over their based in part on current market conditions.
e Errors and omissions liability Management determines the estimated useful lives and During the ordinary course of business the Group can be related depreciation charges at acquisition.
The estimated subject to claims for errors and omissions made in useful life is reviewed annually and the depreciation charge connection with its broking activities.
A balance sheet is revised where useful lives are subsequently found to be provision is established in respect of such claims when it is different to those previously estimated.
probable that the liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
b Impairment of assets The Group analyses its litigation exposures based on The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other available information, including external legal consultation assets that have indefinite useful lives suffered any where appropriate, to assess its potential liability.
Other assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is determined based on value-inuse calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
This determination requires significant judgement.
In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the duration and extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost: and the financial health of and near-term business outlook for the investment, including factors such as industry and sector performance, changes in regional economies and operational and financing cash flow.
c Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
54 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Future developments The following pronouncements may be relevant to the Group but were not effective at 31st December 2006 and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
Pronouncement Nature of change Effective date IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and Addresses the apparent conflict between the requirements of IAS 34, Annual periods beginning on or impairment Interim financial reporting, and those in other standards on the recognition after 1st November 2006 and reversal in financial statements of impairment losses on goodwill and certain financial assets.
It states that any such impairment losses recognised in an interim financial statement may not be reversed in subsequent interim or annual financial statements.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Consolidates the current financial instruments disclosures into a Annual periods beginning on or single standard and requires more detailed qualitative disclosures about after 1st January 2007 exposure to risk arising from financial instruments.
Amendments to IAS 1 Introduces additional disclosures of the objectives, policies and processes Annual periods beginning on or Presentation of Financial Statement for managing capital, quantitative data about what the entity regards as after 1st January 2007 Capital Disclosures capital and compliance with capital requirements.
IFRS 8 Operating segments Proposes that entities adopt the management approach to reporting the Annual periods beginning on or financial performance of its operating segments.
Operating segments are after 1st January 2009 components of an entity about which, separate financial information is available, which management uses internally for evaluating segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources to operating segments.
The Group is assessing the full impact of these accounting changes: and to the extent they may be applicable, none of these pronouncements are expected to cause any material adjustments to the financial statements.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 55 Group Financial Statements
