Glossary GLOSSARY Accounting Documents The Primary Accounting Documents, DAM, DVM and R&P.
Mean capital employed Mean capital employed is defined as total assets less current liabilities, excluding corporate taxes and dividends payable, and provisions other Accounting separation Accounting separation requirements arise where there is an obligation than those for deferred taxation.
The mean is computed from the start to not unduly discriminate: and or there is a reasonable concern that a and end values for the period, except in the case of short-term Dominant Provider may make cross-subsidies, e. g. the means by which investments and borrowings, where daily averages are used in their a margin squeeze may be funded.
Annual Report BTs consolidated Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 n a Not applicable.
These are available on the BT website at http: www.
Baskets Baskets are collections of services not considered to be competitive and for which prices are subject to specific charge controls.
Network Charge Control The basis on which interconnect charges have been set with effect from regime NCC 1 October 1997.
Components Within these statements, the term components includes both network components and network parts.
Cost accounting Cost accounting obligations are to meet the requirements where there Other communications Other telecommunication companies operating in the UK, which is an obligation in relation to: providers purchase telecommunication services from BT.
PPP Product management, policy and planning.
Price controls Cost-orientation Primary Accounting Set out the framework within which the Current Cost Financial Cost recovery Documents Statements are prepared.
Relationships and The BT publication Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships Parameters R&P and Parameters describes in detail how BT has applied the principles Current Cost Accounting The change to historical costs arising from the revaluation of assets on contained within the LRIC Methodology section of the Accounting CCA adjustments a current cost basis.
In the statements for individual Businesses and Documents to construct cost volume relationships and to calculate activities the adjustments comprise the holding gains or losses arising LRIC.
The R&P also contains appendices which detail the relationships from changes in asset values, together with the effect on asset values and parameters used within the model.
and depreciation of the appropriate allocation of current cost asset values between Markets, Technical Areas and Wholesale Services.
Retail cost accounting Cost accounting in retail markets deals with products and services sold to end users.
DAM The Detailed Attribution Methods.
This sets out the detailed processes by which revenues and costs are attributed to the Markets, Technical Safeguard Caps Safeguard Caps are a collection of services considered prospectively Areas and Wholesale Services.
competitive and for which the rates are subject to specific charge controls.
DLRIC LRIC plus a share of common costs.
SDSL Synchronous Digital Subscriber Line.
DVM The Detailed Valuation Methodology.
This sets out the methodology by which current cost valuations are obtained.
Stand alone cost SAC The stand alone cost of an activity or subset of activities is the cost incurred in providing that activity or activities of services by itself.
DSAC Stand alone cost SAC excluding a share of core common costs.
Stand alone cost will include all direct variable, activity specific fixed FRIACO Flat Rate Internet Access Call Origination.
costs, common fixed costs and joint costs associated with the activity LLU Local Loop Unbundling.
or subset of activities in question.
Long Run Incremental Defined as the cost caused by the provision of a defined increment of Usage Factors Usage Factors refer to the usage of any network component, including Cost LRIC output given that costs can, if necessary, be varied and that some level conveyance components.
of output is already produced.
Wholesale cost Cost accounting in wholesale markets deals with products and services accounting sold to Communications Providers.
38 Documentation DOCU Hard co MENTATION py versions of the published Current Cost Financial Statements, Primary Accounting Documents, Detailed Attribution Methods, Detailed Valuation Methodology and Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters can be obtained from: Shareholder Helpline Tel Freefone 0808 100 4141 Fax 01903 833371 Textphone Freefone 0800 169 6907 From outside the UK: Tel 44 121 433 4404 Fax 44 1903 833371 Textphone 44 121 415 7028 E-mail bt@lloydstsb-registrars.
co. uk The Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars 2450 The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom Website: http: www.
co. uk Electronic copies of the above documents are also available from the following website: http: www.
htm 39 BT Group plc Registered office: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ Registered in England and Wales No: 4190816 Produced by BT Group in conjunction with Xansa plc www.
