Statements of assurance STATEMENTS OF ASSURANCE Statement of Directors Responsibility Independent auditors statement to British Telecommunications plc The information presented in this pro-forma document has been prepared in order to demonstrate We have examined the BT Regulatory Financial Report 2006 of British Telecommunications plc the BTs view of the form and content of its future regulatory reporting obligations.
I hereby confirm that: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the regulatory financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the Accounting The directors are responsible for preparing the BT Regulatory Financial Report 2006.
Our Documents as described above: and responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the financial information set out on the information has been accurately extracted or aggregated from the Current Cost Financial pages 7 to 35 of the BT Regulatory Financial Report 2006, other than the analysis of mean capital Statements, dated 7 September 2006. employed between historic cost and current cost accounting elements and the service prices as at 31 March 2006, the Financial Information, with the Current Cost Financial Statements for 2006 Neil Taylor prepared by British Telecommunications plc in accordance with the Final Statement and Notification Director, Commercial and Regulatory Finance entitled The regulatory financial reporting obligations on BT and Kingston Communications issued 7 September 2006 by Ofcom on 22 July 2004 as amended by the Final Statement and Notification entitled Changes to BTs regulatory financial reporting framework issued by Ofcom on 31 August 2005 and the Statement of the Equality of Access Board EAB - 2005 06 Explanatory Statement and Notification entitled Changes to BTs regulatory financial reporting and BTs Undertakings and the Equality of Access Board audit requirements issued by Ofcom on 16 August 2006 the Current Cost Financial Statements.
We also read the other information contained in the BT Regulatory Financial Report 2006 and In addition to financial reporting regulations, BT is required to report on its compliance with the consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Undertakings agreed with Ofcom as a result of the 2005 Strategic Review of the UK inconsistencies with the Current Cost Financial Statements.
Ofcom accepted the Undertakings on 21 September 2005, and they came into force the following day.
Key commitments in the Undertakings include: This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company for management purposes and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume establishing a new BT access services division, Openreach launched in January 2006 : responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into delivering equivalence of input for certain key wholesale products and increasing transparency whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
for others: ensuring fair access and migration to BTs next generation network 21C network for other Basis of opinion communications providers: We conducted our work having regard to Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary publishing and making available to all BT people a code of practice explaining what they must do financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
to comply with the Undertakings: creating the Equality of Access Board EAB to monitor, advise and report on BTs compliance Opinion with the Undertakings and the code of practice.
The EAB is supported by its own Secretariat and In our opinion the Financial Information set out on pages 7 to 35 within the BT Regulatory Financial the Equality of Access Office EAO.
Report 2006 is consistent with the Current Cost Financial Statements.
The role of the EAB does not extend to reviewing BTs financial regulatory report.
However, the EAB  LLP is required to publish an Annual Report of its activities which focus on non-financial performance Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors measures of BTs compliance.
The EAB is also obliged to seek external assurance of its Annual Report London by an independent auditor, who has a duty of care to Ofcom.
7 September 2006 The EABs first annual report was published on 31 May 2006.
An extract from that Report is included at Annex 6 and provides another example of transparent reporting on BTs compliance with its regulatory responsibilities and commitments.
The full report can be viewed at www.
