Basis of accounting BASIS OF ACCOUNTING obligations have changed, BTs financial systems may not be able to provide the required data and Accounting policies and methodologies in these cases comparatives have not been shown.
The regulatory financial statements are based on the same general ledger information that is used to prepare the statutory accounts for BT Group plc.
A reconciliation between the consolidated BT now records its transactions in the accounting records in accordance with UKs legal regulatory financial accounts and the statutory accounts is set out in Annex 5 of the report.
requirements and for the first time for the year ended 31 March 2006 under International Financial Reporting standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
The date and transition for adopting BT prepares its regulatory accounts in accordance with documented accounting policies and IFRS in the statutory accounts was 1 April 2004 with the exception of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: methodologies, to ensure consistency year-on-year.
These policies and methodologies have been Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments Recognition and Measurement developed over a number of years and are comprehensively described in the following documents, which has been applied with effect from 1 April 2005.
However, in the Regulatory Financial Report which are available to Ofcom, and to the auditors in support of the independent audit of the the comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2005 was not restated to include the published regulatory financial statements: impact of IFRS as the most significant adjustments in respect of pensions and dividends are Primary Accounting Documents this consists of subsidiary documents that set out BTs excluded from the current Regulatory Financial Report and the effect of spreading the impact of Regulatory Accounting Principles, the Attribution Methods, the Transfer Charge System other adjustments was minimal across services and markets.
The key adjustments to the Methodology, the Accounting Policies and the Long Run Incremental Cost LRIC comparative years between UK GAAP and IFRS, which are not spread across the services and Methodology.
markets, are outlined in Annex 5.
A detailed explanation of how the transition from UK GAAP to Secondary Accounting Documents these provide more detailed information relating to IFRS has effected the Group financial position and reported performance is set out in the various aspects of the accounting approaches, namely Detailed Attribution Methods, Detailed Consolidated Statutory Financial Statements of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Valuation Methodologies and Long Run Incremental Costs: Relationships and Parameters.
These documents have been published by BT and are available from the BT Group plc website.
Principles of cost attribution The Accounting Documents referred to above set out in detail the way in which accounting information is attributed to products and to SMP markets.
As far as possible revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are allocated to the specific products and markets to which they directly relate.
However, many costs and assets relate to more than one product or market, and attribution approaches need to be developed that allocate amounts on an appropriate cost-causal basis.
The basis will vary from case to case, depending on the nature of the cost incurred or the asset used.
The accounting separation process takes these common and shared costs and allocates them in such a way that they are all attributed appropriately to the markets and to the products that sit in each market.
The attribution methodologies apply to the whole of BTs operations: to ensure that costs are fairly allocated to both SMP and non-SMP activities, reflecting the costs caused by activities and the assets used by them during the year.
Prior year comparatives The financial statements and key indicators presented in this report include prior year comparatives, in order to indicate trends in performance, and as far as possible comparative data is drawn from previously published information.
However, in some cases, for example where regulatory 5
