Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy ninth Companys issued share capital as at the Annual General Meeting of JPMorgan Fleming date of the passing of this Resolution: Japanese Investment Trust plc will be held at The ii the minimum price which may be paid for Library, JPMorgans offices, 60 Victoria an ordinary share shall be 25p: Embankment, London, EC4Y 0JP on Tuesday 19th iii the maximum price which may be paid for December 2006 at 2.00 p. m. for the following an ordinary share shall be an amount purposes: equal to the highest 0f a 105% of the 1 To receive the Directors Report & Accounts and average of the middle market quotations the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th for an ordinary share taken from and September 2006. calculated by reference to the London 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the for the year ended 30th September 2006. five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is 3 To elect Alan Barber as a Director of the purchased or b the price of the last Company.
independent trade: or c the highest 4 To re-elect David Pearson as a Director of the current independent bid: Company.
iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be 5 To re-elect Jeremy Paulson-Ellis as a Director of made in the market for cash at prices the Company.
below the prevailing net asset value per ordinary share as determined by the 6 To re-appoint Begbies Chettle Agar as auditors Directors at the date following not more to the Company and to authorise the Directors than seven days before the date of to determine their remuneration.
purchase: Special Business v the authority hereby conferred shall To consider the following resolutions: expire on 18th June 2008 unless the Authority to increase the maximum aggregate authority is renewed by shareholders in Directors fees Ordinary Resolution general meeting prior to such time: and 7 THAT in accordance with Article 77 of the vi the Company may make a contract to Companys Articles of Association, the purchase ordinary shares under the maximum aggregate Directors fees payable be authority hereby conferred prior to the increased from 100,000 to 125,000 per expiry of such authority and may make a annum with immediate effect.
purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any Authority to Repurchase the Companys shares such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
Special Resolution Authority to change the name of the Company 8 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as Special Resolution hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised 9 THAT subject to the consent of the Registrar of in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies, the name of the Company be Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market changed to JPMorgan Japanese Investment purchases within the meaning of Section 163 Trust plc.
of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of By order of the Board 25p each in the capital of the Company AK Norman, for and on behalf of PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, i the maximum number of ordinary shares Secretary hereby authorised to be purchased shall 15th November 2006 be 27,809,735 or, if less, that number of shares which is equal to 14.99% of the JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 27 Notes 6 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to appoint one or more Electronic appointment CREST members proxies to attend and on a poll vote on their CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy does not appointment service may do so for the Meeting and prevent a member from attending and voting if he any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures so wishes.
described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal 2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, members or other CREST sponsored members, and must be lodged at the Companys Registrar not those CREST members who have appointed a voting less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the In order for a proxy appointment made using the Company of the number of votes they may cast, CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST members must be entered on the Companys message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be register of members as at 6.00 p. m. on properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos 15th December 2006 the specified time.
The CREST message must be meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent hours after the specified time applicable to the ID7RA01 by not later than 48 hours before the time original meeting, that time will also apply for the appointed for the holding of the meeting or the purpose of determining the entitlement of adjourned meeting.
For this purpose, the time of members to attend and vote and for the purpose receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by of determining the number of votes they may the timestamp applied to the CREST message by the cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to agent is able to retrieve the CREST message by be so entitled, members must be entered on the enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. After this time any change of instructions to proxies two days prior to the adjourned meeting or, if the appointed through CREST should be communicated to Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, the appointee through other means.
at the time specified in that notice.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 4 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to sponsors or voting service provider s, should note shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior that CRESTCo does not make available special arrangement.
procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timing and limitations will therefore A corporation, which is a shareholder, may apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy appoint an individual to act as its representative Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST and to vote in person at the meeting.
The member concerned to take or, if the CREST appointment must comply with section 375 of the member s is are a CREST personal member or Companies Act 1985.
The representative should sponsored member or has appointed a voting bring to the meeting evidence of his or her service provider s, to procure that the CREST sponsor appointment, including any authority under which or voting service provider takes such action as shall it is signed, unless previously given to the be necessary to ensure that a CREST message is Companys registrars.
transmitted by means of the CREST system by any 5 The register of interests of the Directors and particular time.
In this connection, CREST members connected persons in the share capital of the and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting Company is available for inspection at the service provider s is are referred, in particular, to Companys registered office during usual business those sections of the CREST Manual concerning hours on any weekday Saturdays and public practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
It will also be available for The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
