Notes to the Accounts continued 20.
Financial instruments a Management of risk The Groups financial instruments comprise: Investments in Japanese equity shares, which are held in accordance with the Companys investment objective: Short term debtors, creditors and cash arising directly from its operations: Bank loans denominated in Yen, the main purpose of which is to finance the Companys operations: and Derivative transactions which may include forward foreign currency contracts and index futures.
The Company is an investment trust and invests in shares and securities for the long term.
The main risks arising from the Groups operations are market price risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk.
A description of these risks is given below, together with the Boards policy for managing these risks where appropriate.
Market price risk Market price risk arises mainly from uncertainty about future prices of financial instruments held.
It represents the potential loss which the Company might incur as a result of holding a portfolio of investments when market prices fall.
The Board meets on at least four occasions each year to consider the asset allocation of the portfolio in order to minimise the risk associated with particular industry sectors.
An investment management team has responsibility for monitoring the portfolio, which is selected in accordance with the Companys investment objectives and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
Index futures may be used to protect the portfolio from predicted market falls.
The Board meets at least quarterly to consider the asset allocation of the portfolio and, as part of their review, the risk associated with particular industry sectors.
An investment management team has responsibility for monitoring the portfolio which is selected in accordance with the Companys investment objectives and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
Liquidity Risk The Companys assets comprise mainly realisable securities, which can be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary.
Short term flexibility is achieved through the use of overdraft facilities.
Interest rate risk The Company finances its operations through bank borrowings and retained profits.
The Company may borrow at both fixed and floating rates of interest to both generate the desired interest rate profile and to manage the exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Credit Risk The Companys financial assets are bank balances, debtors and investments, which represent the Companys maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
When buying and selling investments, the Company is exposed to the risk that the counterparty will not deliver the investment or cash.
The Company will only deal with brokers which have been approved by JPMAM and banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Financial instruments continued Limits have been set as to the maximum exposure to any one counterparty at any time.
The Company has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a number of counterparties.
Foreign currency risk The Company has exposure to foreign currency as part of the risk reward inherent in a company that invests overseas.
The income and capital value of the the Companys investments can be affected by exchange rate movements as some of the Companys assets and income are denominated in currencies other than Sterling which is the reporting currency.
The Board has identified four principal areas where foreign currency risk could impact the Company: movements in rates affect the value of investments: movements in rates affect the value of loans: movements in rates affect short term timing differences: and movements in rates affect income received.
The Company may be exposed to currency risk due to exchange rate movement in the period between, investment trade date and the date of settlement.
This exposure is short term and therefore the risk is not significant.
The Companys policy of borrowing in Yen denominated loans acts to reduce the companys exposure to fluctuations in Yen exchange rates.
b Currency exposures 2006 2005 Yen Yen m m Investments 575.7 574.0 Net current liabilities 64.1 71.0 Financial instruments outstanding at the year end 511.6 503.0 c Interest Rate Risk Profile of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Financial assets The Companys financial assets comprise investments, debtors and cash.
The investments are all equity shares which neither pay interest nor have a maturity date.
The Companys debtors comprise unsettled broker balances for securities sold, dividends receivable, prepayments and other small balances on which no interest accrues.
Cash balances in excess of a predetermined amount are placed on short term deposit and earn market rates of interest.
JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 43 Notes to the Accounts continued Financial liabilities The Companys liabilities include unsettled broker balances for securities purchased, other accruals on which no interest is payable, short term loans and overdrafts.
Overdraft interest is payable at the prevailing market rate.
The interest rate profile of the Companys financial liabilities at 30th September is: 2006 2005 000 000 Fixed rate financial liabilities 66,202 69,821 Floating rate financial liabilities 8,293 Liabilities on which no interest is paid 874 7,047 67,076 85,161 For fixed rate financial liabilities: Weighted average interest rate 0.70% 0.40% Weighted average period for which the interest rate is fixed 13 days 34 days During the year, the Company arranged a Yen 6 billion revolving loan facility with ING Bank N. V. Under the terms of this agreement the Company may draw down up to Yen 6 billion at an interest rate of LIBOR, as offered in the market for the loan period, plus a margin, plus the mandatory costs rate.
At 30th September 2006, the Company had drawn down the whole Yen 6 billion on this facility comprising four loans of one month duration at a weighted average interest rate of 0.71%.
In August 2005 the Company arranged a Yen 10 billion revolving loan facility with Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
Under the terms of this agreement the Company may draw down up to Yen 10 billion at an interest rate of LIBOR, as offered in the market for the loan period, plus a margin, plus the mandatory costs rate.
At 30th September 2006, the Company had drawn down the whole Yen 10 billion on this facility comprising two loans of one month duration at a weighted average interest rate of 0.64%.
At 30th September 2005 the Company had drawn down Yen 8 billion on this facility comprising one loan of three months duration at an interest rate of 0.33%.
In December 2004 the Company arranged a Yen 6 billion credit facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the terms of this agreement the Company may draw down up to Yen 6 billion at an interest rate of LIBOR, as offered in the market for the loan period, plus a margin, plus the mandatory costs rate.
At 30th September 2006, the Company had drawn down the whole Yen 6 billion on this facility comprising one loan of one month duration at an interest rate of 0.8%.
At 30th September 2005, the Company had drawn down the whole Yen 6 billion on this facility comprising one loan of three months duration at an interest rate of 0.51%.
d Maturity of the companys financial liabilities 2006 2005 000 000 Falling due in one year or less or on demand 67,076 85,161 e Fair values of Financial Instruments All financial assets and liabilities are included in the balance sheet at fair values.
