Notes to the Accounts for the year ended 30th September 2006 1.
Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The accounts are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies the SORP issued by the AIC in December 2005.
Further details can be found on this and the following page.
The Company has adopted certain new accounting policies following the issue of new financial reporting standards FRSs.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
b Changes in presentation The new financial reporting standards, the Listing Rules and the revised SORP have also given rise to some changes in presentation.
The Statement of Total Return is now called the Income Statement and the total return column, as opposed to the revenue column, is now the profit and loss account of the Company.
If the Company was to pay a dividend, it would not now be reflected in the Income Statement.
However it would be shown in the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds which is now presented as a primary statement.
c Valuation of investments Investments are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with FRS 26: Financial Instruments: Measurement.
Listed investments are valued at bid market prices.
This represents a change in accounting policy, however in accordance with paragraph 108D of FRS 26, comparatives have not been restated.
In prior periods, listed investments were valued at last trade prices.
As a consequence, the adoption of bid prices on 1st October 2005 decreased the value of investments by 1,209,000 as shown in note 9.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains or losses on disposal are included in the income statement within Gains from investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Transaction costs incurred on the purchase and sale of investments are also included within this caption.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade date basis.
d Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are included in revenue on an ex-dividend basis except where, in the opinion of the Board, the dividend is capital in nature, in which case it is taken to capital.
Overseas dividends are shown gross of withholding tax.
Interest receivable is taken to revenue on an accruals basis.
Interest receivable from debt securities together with any premiums or discounts on purchase are allocated to revenue on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective interest rate of those securities.
Stock lending income and interest receivable on deposits is taken to revenue on an accruals basis.
e Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are allocated wholly to revenue with the following exceptions: management fees are allocated 20% to revenue and 80% to capital in line with the Boards expected long term split of revenue and capital return from the Companys investment portfolio.
expenses incidental to the purchase and sale of an investment are charged to capital.
These expenses are commonly referred to as transaction costs and comprise mainly broker commission.
In accordance with the SORP, disclosure of transaction costs is now required and can be found in note 9.
34 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese f Finance costs Finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis and in accordance with the provisions of FRS 25: Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26: Financial Instruments: Measurement.
Finance costs are allocated 20% to revenue and 80% to capital in line with the Boards expected long term split of revenue and capital return from the Companys investment portfolio.
g Financial instruments Cash at bank and in hand may comprise cash and demand deposits which are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Other receivables do not carry any interest, are short term in nature and are accordingly stated at nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
Finance costs, including any premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method.
Derivative instruments are valued at fair value in the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
h Foreign currency In accordance with FRS23: The effects of changes in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates the Company is required to nominate a functional currency, being the currency in which the Company predominantly operates.
The Board, having regard to the currency of the Companys share capital and the predominant currency in which its shareholders operate, has determined the functional currency to be Sterling.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are converted at actual exchange rates as at the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in revenue return or capital return, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a revenue or capital nature.
i Taxation Deferred tax is accounted for in accordance with FRS 19: Deferred Tax.
Deferred tax is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable timing differences but deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those timing differences can be utilised.
Tax relief is allocated to expenses charged to capital on the marginal basis.
On this basis, if taxable income is capable of being entirely offset by revenue expenses, then no tax relief is transferred to capital.
