Notice of Annual General Meeting Notes Notice is hereby given that the seventy-seventh i A member entitled to attend and vote at the above Annual General Meeting of JPMorgan Fleming meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to Continental European Investment Trust plc will be attend and on a poll vote on their behalf.
A proxy held at The Library, JPMorgan, 60 Victoria need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on Thursday 20th of a form of proxy does not prevent a member from July 2006 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes.
attending and voting if he so wishes.
ii Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual be lodged at the Companys Registrar not less than Accounts and the Auditors Report for the year 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
ended 31st March 2006. iii To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members for the year ended 31st March 2006. must be entered on the Companys register of 3 To declare a dividend on the ordinary shares.
members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the 4 To re-elect Robin Faber a Director of the meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is Company.
adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that 5 To re-elect Alexander Zagoreos a Director of the time will also apply for the purpose of determining Company.
the entitlement of members to attend and vote and 6 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to for the purpose of determining the number of votes the Company and to authorise the Directors to they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to determine their remuneration for the ensuing be so entitled, members must be entered on the year.
Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the adjourned meeting or, if the By order of the Board Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of the time specified in that notice.
JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, iv Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to Secretary.
shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
5th June 2006 A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual to act as its representative and to vote in person at the meeting.
The appointment must comply with section 375 of the Companies Act 1985.
The representative should bring to the meeting evidence of his or her appointment, including any authority under which it is signed, unless previously given to the Companys registrars.
v The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
vi No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 31 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Electronic appointment CREST members CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos CREST Manual.
The CREST message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID7RA01 by not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the CREST message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the CREST message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member s is are a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that the CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a CREST message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s is are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
32 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate JPMorgan Fleming Continental European Investment governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Trust plc We read other information contained in the Annual We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan Report and consider whether it is consistent with the Fleming Continental European Investment Trust plc for audited financial statements.
The other information the year ended 31st March 2006 which comprise the comprises only the Directors Report, Corporate Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Statement of Total Governance Statement, the unaudited part of the Recognised Gains and Losses and the Cash Flow Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, Accounting Policies i to ix and the related Statement and the Investment Managers Report.
These financial statements have been consider the implications for our report if we become prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
aware of any apparent misstatements or material We have also audited the information in the Directors inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our Remuneration Report that is described as having been responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as We conducted our audit in accordance with International a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, might state to the Companys members those matters we on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and are required to state to them in an auditors report and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone includes an assessment of the significant estimates and other than the Company and the Companys members as judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the the financial statements, and of whether the accounting opinions we have formed.
policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the the information and explanations which we considered financial statements in accordance with applicable United necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom to give reasonable assurance that the financial Generally Accepted Accounting Practice as set out in the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory information in the financial statements and the part of requirements and International Standards on Auditing the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial In our opinion: statements give a true and fair view, the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the financial statements give a true and fair view, in Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys information given in the Directors Report is consistent affairs as at 31st March 2006 and of its return for the with the financial statements.
year then ended: We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the financial statements and the part of the Directors not kept proper accounting records, if we have not Remuneration Report to be audited have been received all the information and explanations we require properly prepared in accordance with the Companies for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Act 1985: and Directors remuneration and other transactions is not the information given in the Directors Report is disclosed.
consistent with the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services ERNST & YOUNG LLP Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Registered Auditor London, 5th June 2006 required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 33
