Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to the London twentieth Annual General Meeting of JPMorgan Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc will be five business days immediately preceding held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH the day on which the ordinary share is on Wednesday 24th May 2006 at 12.00 noon for purchased, or b the price of the last the following purposes: independent trade: or c the highest 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual current independent bid: Accounts and the Auditors Report for the year iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be ended 31st January 2006. made in the market for cash at prices 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration below the prevailing net asset value per Report for the year ended 31st January 2006. ordinary share as determined by the 3 To re-elect Charles Peel a Director of the Directors : Company.
v the authority hereby conferred shall 4 To re-elect Nicholas Berry a Director of the expire at the earlier of 23rd November Company.
2007 or at the conclusion of the 5 To re-elect Simon Keswick a Director of the Companys Annual General Meeting in Company.
2007 unless the authority is renewed prior to such time: and 6 To re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the vi the Company may make a contract to Directors to determine their remuneration.
purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the Special Business: expiry of such authority and may make a To consider the following resolution which will purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to be proposed as a Special Resolution: any such contract notwithstanding such Authority to repurchase the Companys shares expiry.
7 THAT the Company be generally and subject as Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution: hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the 8 THAT the Directors of the Company be and they Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market are hereby generally and unconditionally purchases within the meaning of Section 163 authorised, in substitution of any authorities of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 25p previously granted to the Directors, pursuant each in the capital of the Company.
to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers for the PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Company to allot relevant securities within the i the maximum number of ordinary shares meaning of Section 80 of the Act up to an hereby authorised to be purchased shall aggregate nominal amount of 3,257,712, be 19,533,243 or if less, that number of representing approximately 10% of the ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% Companys issued ordinary share capital as at of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution the date of the passing of this Resolution: provided that this authority shall expire on 23rd ii the minimum price which may be paid for May 2011 unless renewed at a general meeting an ordinary share shall be 25p: prior to such time, save that the Company may iii the maximum price which may be paid for before such expiry make offers, agreements or an ordinary share or unit shall be an arrangements which would or might require amount equal to a 105 per cent of the relevant securities to be allotted after such average of the middle market quotations expiry and so that the Directors of the Company JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 31 Notice of Meeting continued Notes may allot relevant securities in pursuance of 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the above such offers, agreements or arrangements as if meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
attend and on a poll vote on their behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on of a form of proxy does not prevent a member from allotment of new ordinary shares Special attending and voting if he so wishes.
Resolution: 2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must 9 THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 8 set be lodged at the Companys Registrar not less than out above, the Directors of the Company be and 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot for the purpose of the determination by the Company equity securities within the meaning of Section of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of 94 of the Act pursuant to the authority members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the conferred by Resolution 8 as if Section 89 1 of meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is the Act did not apply to any such allotment, adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the provided that this power shall be limited to the specified time applicable to the original meeting, allotment of equity securities for cash up to an that time will also apply for the purpose of aggregate nominal amount of 3,257,712, determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the representing approximately 10% of the total number of votes they may cast at the adjourned ordinary share capital as at the date of the meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a passing of this resolution at a price of not less longer period then, to be so entitled, members must than the net asset value per share and shall be entered on the Companys register of members as expire on 23rd May 2011 unless renewed at a at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned general meeting prior to such time, save that the meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Company may before such expiry make offers, agreements or arrangements which would or 4 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior might require equity securities to be allotted arrangement.
after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in pursuant A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual to act as its representative and to vote of such offers, agreements or arrangements as if in person at the meeting.
The appointment must the power conferred hereby had not expired.
comply with section 375 of the Companies Act 1985.
Increase in maximum aggregate Directors fees The representative should bring to the meeting evidence of his or her appointment, including any Ordinary Resolution: authority under which it is signed, unless previously 10 THAT In accordance with Article 78 of the given to the Companys registrars.
Articles of Association, the maximum aggregate 5 The register of interests of the Directors and Directors fees payable be increased from connected persons in the share capital of the 150,000 to 200,000 per annum with effect Company is available for inspection at the Companys from 1st February 2006. registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual By order of the Board General Meeting.
JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, 6 No Director has any contract of service with the Secretary Company.
