NOTES 1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU including interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, with the exception of certain items which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
The demerger of Filtrona changed the financing structure of the Group with Filtrona assuming 115.4m of the Groups net debt at demerger on 6 June 2005.
This change to the Groups funding structure was previously presented in the 2005 cash flow statement as an inflow within investing activities with a corresponding decrease in loans shown within financing activities.
This disclosure was considered helpful as it highlighted the impact of the demerger on the funding structure of the ongoing Bunzl Group.
As there was no impact on cash and cash equivalents, the 2005 cash flow statement has been re-presented to exclude this impact of the demerger from both investing and financing activities.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.
2 Accounting policies a Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration paid plus directly attributable costs over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expense arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and intangible assets, are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at average exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in equity.
Differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in foreign operations are recognised directly in equity to the extent the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective such differences are recognised in the income statement.
c Financial instruments Under International Accounting Standard IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, financial instruments are initially measured at fair value with subsequent measurement depending upon the classification of the instrument.
Other financial assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost, unless they are in a fair value hedging relationship.
Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposures to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
i Fair value hedge Where a derivative financial instrument is designated and qualifies as a hedge of a recognised asset or liability, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged.
ii Cash flow hedge Where a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a hedge is used to hedge forecast transactions, any effective portion of the change in fair value is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operations Gains or losses on instruments used to hedge net investment in foreign operations that are effective hedges are recognised in equity.
Ineffective hedges or portions thereof are recognised in the income statement.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006 Notes 09 NOTES CONTINUED 2 Accounting policies continued d Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
e Depreciation Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis to write off cost over the estimated remaining useful asset lives.
This is at the following annual rates applied to cost or deemed cost less estimated residual value: Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter Plant and machinery 10 20% Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 33% Freehold land Not depreciated The assets residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
f Intangible assets i Goodwill Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method.
As permitted by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards the Group has chosen to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations from 1 January 2004 and has elected not to restate previous business combinations.
For acquisitions that have occurred on or after 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the excess of the consideration paid plus directly attributable costs over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of deemed cost, which represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is not amortised but tested annually for impairment.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised on acquisition and recorded at fair value.
These principally relate to customer relationships.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives which range from 10 to 19 years.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
g Leases Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets are classified as finance leases.
Where land and buildings are held under leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings due to the indefinite life of land.
h Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine if there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Impairment losses are recognised when the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, with impairment losses being recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill impairment tests are carried out at each balance sheet date.
i Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first in, first out basis and net realisable value.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, bank overdrafts and fixed term investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
k Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at nominal amount less any impairment losses.
Discounting is applied where it is expected to have a material impact.
l Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at nominal amount.
m Income tax Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items reflected in equity when it is recognised in equity.
Current tax reflects tax payable on taxable income for the year using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method providing for certain temporary differences arising between tax bases and carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which any asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
10 Notes Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006 2 Accounting policies continued n Revenue The Group is engaged in the delivery of goods to customers.
Revenue from a sale is recognised in the income statement upon delivery of the relevant goods, which is the point in time at which the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are transferred.
Revenue is valued at invoiced amount, excluding sales taxes, less estimated provisions for returns and trade discounts where relevant.
Revenue is not recognised if there is significant uncertainty regarding recovery of the consideration due.
o Employee benefits i Defined contribution pension schemes Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense to the income statement as incurred.
ii Defined benefit pension schemes Pension liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and represent the difference between the market value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities.
Scheme liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted using a rate of AA rated bonds that have a similar maturity to the scheme liabilities.
Current service cost, past service cost credit and gains and losses on any settlement and curtailments are credited or charged to the income statement.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent benefits are already vested or is otherwise amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits are vested.
The unwinding of the discount on scheme liabilities is recognised within finance cost and the expected return on scheme assets generated during the year is included within finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
p Investment in own shares The cost of shares held either directly treasury shares or indirectly employee benefit trust shares is deducted from equity.
q Share based payments The Group operates equity settled share based compensation plans.
The total expected expense based on the fair value of options and other share based incentives at the relevant grant date is calculated using a valuation model and spread over the expected vesting period.
The corresponding credit is taken to equity.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of options and other share based incentives that vest.
Details of these plans are outlined in Note 17 and the Directors Remuneration Report.
r Provisions Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and where it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting the Groups obligations under the contract.
s Net debt Net debt is defined as interest bearing loans and borrowings, less cash and cash equivalents.
t Discontinued operations Discontinued operations represent a component of the Group that has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
The profit or loss after tax of the discontinued component is disclosed as a single line on the income statement.
The cash flows of the discontinued component are also disclosed as a single line in each of the categories in the cash flow statement.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006 Notes 11 NOTES CONTINUED Critical accounting policies The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated.
The directors believe that the financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimations and provide a true and fair view of the Groups performance and financial position.
a Pensions The Group accounts for its defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the assumptions used see Note 22 and for each assumption there is a range of possible outcomes.
In consultation with the Groups actuaries, management decides the point within those ranges that most appropriately reflects the Groups circumstances.
Small changes to these assumptions can have a significant impact on valuations.
b Intangible assets IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination.
The methods used to value such intangible assets require the use of estimates.
Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions including discount rates, timing and growth prospects which are inherently subjective.
c Revenue recognition Revenue represents sales to third parties for goods sold and is valued at invoiced amount, excluding sales taxes, less estimated provisions for returns and trade discounts where relevant.
Returns provisions are based on experience over an appropriate period whereas volume and early settlement discounts are based on agreements with customers.
d Acquisitions Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method based on the fair value of the consideration paid.
Assets and liabilities are measured at fair value and the purchase price is allocated to assets and liabilities based on these fair values.
Determining the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions such as discount rates, asset lives and recoverability.
Assets and liabilities are measured at fair value and the value of freehold properties is typically determined by qualified valuers on an open market basis.
Management believes that estimates made in previous years have been materially accurate as any changes made in the allocation period following acquisition to finalise provisional fair value adjustments made in the year of acquisition have not been material.
New accounting standards and interpretations In preparing the consolidated financial statements the Group has adopted the following amendments to IFRS which became effective in 2006: IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates IAS 39 Cash Flow Hedge Accounting for Forecast Intra-Group Transactions IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement The Fair Value Option The adoption of these amendments did not have a significant impact on the financial statements.
The Group has adopted the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Interpretation 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease and IFRIC Interpretation 6 Liabilities Arising from Participating in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment in the 2006 consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of these interpretations did not have a significant impact on the financial statements.
The following new IFRS and interpretation, effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2006, have had no impact on the financial statements as they are not relevant to the Group: IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources IFRIC 5 Rights to Interest Arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds.
The following new IFRSs, interpretations and amended IAS are not yet effective and consequently have not been early adopted: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures both effective for the 2007 financial year require additional disclosures for financial instruments: IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective for the 2009 financial year requires that an entity adopt the management approach to reporting financial performance of its operating segments: IFRIC Interpretation 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies, IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, IFRIC Interpretation 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment are all effective for the 2007 financial year: and IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions and IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements are both effective for 2008.
The adoption of these IFRSs, interpretations and amended IAS are not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
12 Notes Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006
