NOTES 1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU including interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, with the exception of certain items which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
The demerger of Filtrona changed the financing structure of the Group with Filtrona assuming 115.4m of the Groups net debt at demerger on 6 June 2005.
This change to the Groups funding structure was previously presented in the 2005 cash flow statement as an inflow within investing activities with a corresponding decrease in loans shown within financing activities.
This disclosure was considered helpful as it highlighted the impact of the demerger on the funding structure of the ongoing Bunzl Group.
As there was no impact on cash and cash equivalents, the 2005 cash flow statement has been re-presented to exclude this impact of the demerger from both investing and financing activities.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.
2 Accounting policies a Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration paid plus directly attributable costs over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expense arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and intangible assets, are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at average exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in equity.
Differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in foreign operations are recognised directly in equity to the extent the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective such differences are recognised in the income statement.
c Financial instruments Under International Accounting Standard IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, financial instruments are initially measured at fair value with subsequent measurement depending upon the classification of the instrument.
Other financial assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost, unless they are in a fair value hedging relationship.
Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposures to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
i Fair value hedge Where a derivative financial instrument is designated and qualifies as a hedge of a recognised asset or liability, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged.
ii Cash flow hedge Where a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a hedge is used to hedge forecast transactions, any effective portion of the change in fair value is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operations Gains or losses on instruments used to hedge net investment in foreign operations that are effective hedges are recognised in equity.
Ineffective hedges or portions thereof are recognised in the income statement.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006 Notes 09
