NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Basis of preparation Burberry Group is a luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific: licensing activity is also carried out, principally in Japan.
All of the companies, which comprise Burberry Group, are owned by Burberry Group plc the Company directly or indirectly.
Under European Union EU legislation, it is mandatory for EU listed companies to report under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, for financial years commencing after 1 January 2005.
Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements for the year to 31 March 2006 have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS issued by the IASB, and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
All IFRS issued by the IASB and effective at the time of preparing these consolidated financial statements have been adopted by the EU through the endorsement procedure established by the European Commission.
Since the Group is not affected by the provisions regarding portfolio hedging which are not required by the EU-endorsed version of IAS 39, the accompanying financial statements comply with both IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS issued by the IASB.
The Group had previously reported under UK GAAP.
The results to 31 March 2005 have been restated from UK GAAP to IFRS using the same accounting policies as those used for the results to 31 March 2006, other than as described in note 3 Changes in accounting policies and presentation.
The principal adjustments that were required by Burberry Group on conversion to IFRS are set out in note 32 Transition to IFRS.
Burberry has adopted early IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
The following IFRS, International Financial Reporting and Interpretations Committee requirements IFRICs and amendments thereto have been adopted earlier than required: December 2004 amendment to IAS 19 Employment Benefits permitting the recognition of actuarial gains and losses directly in equity from 1 April 2005 : April 2005 amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement concerning cash flow hedges of forecast intra-group transactions from 1 April 2005 : and June 2005 amendment to IAS 39 concerning the fair value option from 1 June 2005.
The following IFRS and IFRICs have been issued but have not been adopted early by the Group: IFRIC4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease effective from 1 April 2006 requires the determination of whether an arrangement contains a lease.
IFRIC7 Applying the restatement approach effective from 1 April 2006 provides guidance on hyperinflation accounting.
IFRS7 Financial instruments: Disclosures effective from 1 April 2007 introduces new disclosures for financial instruments.
It replaces disclosure requirements in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
The impact of these IFRS and IFRICs on the Groups financial statements is currently being assessed.
The parent Company has not adopted IFRS as its statutory reporting basis.
Audited financial statements for the parent Company, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except in respect of certain financial instruments.
Basis of consolidation The Groups annual financial statements comprise those of the parent company and its subsidiaries, presented as a single economic entity.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
The effects of intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the portion of the reporting period during which Burberry Group plc had control.
Non-GAAP measures Non-GAAP measures are presented in order to provide a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business.
Such presentation will be prepared on a consistent basis in the future.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires that management make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be modified as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to goodwill and asset impairment, stock provisioning, income and deferred tax.
Impairment of goodwill The Group is required to test whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been determined based on value in use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
52 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
