NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23 Capital commitments As at As at 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Capital commitments contracted but not provided for property, plant and equipment 3.5 9.7 intangible assets 0.1 Total 3.6 9.7 Contracted capital commitments represent contracts entered into by the year end and major capital expenditure projects where activity has commenced by the year end relating to property, plant and equipment.
24 Contingent liabilities Since 31 March 2005 the following changes to material contingent liabilities have occurred: The Burberry Group had received a claim from the liquidator of Creation Cent Mille SA CCM a former licensee of Burberry Group, seeking to set aside the termination of the licence agreement between Burberry Limited and CCM.
During the year this matter was concluded and Burberry Group made no payment to CCM or the liquidator in respect of this claim.
In 1994 Burberry Limited granted a licence to Safilo to manufacture and sell eyewear.
The licence expired on 31 December 2005.
Safilo did not accept the terms of a new licence, which were offered for a period from 1 January 2006.
In October 2005, Burberry Group entered into an eyewear licence with Luxottica for a ten year period from 1 January 2006.
Safilo had alleged in correspondence that it had a right of first refusal of any licence for eyewear from 1 January 2006.
On the basis of this alleged right Safilo sought a court order requiring disclosure of the licence entered into with Luxottica.
Safilo was unsuccessful in this application.
Safilo has paid outstanding royalties due under its licence.
If Safilo were to make any further claim for damages or otherwise in relation to this matter, Burberry Group will continue to defend any such claim vigorously, which on legal advice it considers without merit.
Under the terms of a Demerger Agreement, entered into with GUS plc on 13 December 2005, the Burberry Group continues to participate in the GUS defined benefit scheme.
Under this scheme the Burberry Group is jointly and severally liable with the other participating GUS companies for the deficit in this scheme.
When the Burberry Group leaves the scheme it will be required to pay an exit charge calculated pursuant to Section 75 of the Pensions Act.
GUS plc has agreed to pay to the Burberry Group the amount of this liability to the extent it exceeds 1.25 million.
Other material contingent liabilities reported at 31 March 2005 remain unchanged and were: Under the GUS group UK tax payment arrangements, the Burberry Group was jointly and severally liable for any GUS liability attributable to the period of Burberry Groups membership of this payment scheme.
Burberry Groups membership of this scheme was terminated with effect from 31 March 2002.
Burberry Spain S. A. is liable for certain salary and social security contributions left unpaid by its sole contractors where the amounts are attributable to the period in which subcontracting activity is undertaken on behalf of Burberry Spain S. A.
It is not feasible to estimate the amount of contingent liability, but such expense has been minimal in prior years.
25 Acquisition of subsidiary On 1 August 2005 the Burberry Group acquired the Burberry trade and certain assets and liabilities the Burberry Taiwan acquisition from Changs Kent Co. Limited and Ming Pu Co. Limited, which were Burberry distributors in Taiwan.
The Burberry Taiwan acquisition resulted in the acquisition of 12 retail stores and concessions for 5.9m.
All assets were recognised at their respective fair values and the residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
The fair value adjustments contain some provisional amounts which will be finalised by 31 July 2006, principally in relation to amounts payable in terms of the earn out agreement.
72 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
