NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Basis of preparation continued Impairment of assets Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is determined based on value in use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
Stock provisioning The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends.
As a result, it is necessary to consider the recoverability of the cost of stocks and the associated provisioning required.
Stock provisioning is based on the method in which excess stocks can be disposed.
Income and deferred taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes in each territory.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions and assets in the period to which such determination is made.
2 Accounting policies The consolidated financial information of Burberry Group plc and all its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The principle accounting policies of the Group are: a Turnover Turnover, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied less returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
Wholesale sales are recognised when goods are despatched to trade customers, as this reflects the transference of risks and rewards of ownership, with provisions made for expected returns and allowances.
Provisions for returns are calculated based on historical return levels.
Retail sales, returns and allowances are reflected at the dates of transactions with customers, in addition provisions are made for expected returns.
Royalties receivable from licensees, are accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement, which is typically on the basis of production volumes.
b Share schemes Incentive plans The cost of the share incentives received by employees including directors is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
The Black-Scholes option pricing model is used to determine the fair value of the award made.
The impact of performance conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant, except for conditions linked to the price of Burberry Group plc shares i. e. market conditions.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market conditions are allowed for in the assumptions about the number of options expected to vest.
The estimate of the number of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.
The cost of the share based incentives are recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards, with a corresponding increase in equity.
The proceeds received from the exercise of the equity instruments awarded, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium.
c Operating leases Burberry Group is a lessee of property.
Gross rental expenditure in respect of operating leases are recognised on a straight line basis over the period of the leases.
Certain rental expense is determined on the basis of turnover achieved in specific retail locations and is accrued for on that basis.
Lease premiums and incentives Amounts paid to acquire the rights to a lease Lease premiums are written off in equal annual instalments over the life of the lease contract.
Lease incentives, typically rent free periods and capital contributions, are recognised over the full term of the lease.
d Dividend distribution Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by the shareholders for the final dividend or paid in respect of the interim dividend.
e Pension costs Prior to the demerger of the Group from GUS plc on 13 December 2005, it was agreed that existing employees of members of the Burberry Group who were participating in the GUS defined benefit pension scheme would continue to do so until 31 December 2007 or such earlier date as required by HM Customs & Revenue or by Burberry.
When eventual withdrawal of members of the Burberry Group from the GUS pension scheme takes place on or before 31 December 2007, Burberry must pay any liabilities due under section 75 or 75A of the Pensions Act 1995.
GUS has indemnified Burberry on an after tax basis against any amounts which are in excess of 1.25m.
The pension costs in these consolidated financial statements are determined in accordance with IAS 19.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 53 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Accounting policies continued e Pension costs continued Defined benefit schemes Eligible employees of Burberry Group participate in a number of defined benefit schemes throughout the world: the principal defined benefit scheme is in the UK.
The assets covering this arrangement are held in independently administered funds.
The cost of providing defined benefit schemes to participating Burberry employees is charged to the income statement over the anticipated period of employment.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet, in respect of defined benefit schemes, represents Burberrys share of the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains and losses and past service costs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly to equity through the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Defined contribution schemes Burberry Group eligible employees also participate in defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with its assets held in an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits to participating Burberry employees is recognised in the income statement and comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year.
f Intangible fixed assets Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill on acquisition is recorded as an intangible fixed asset.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are also made to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of Burberry Group.
Prior to 31 March 2004, goodwill was held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Goodwill was assigned a finite useful economic life, not exceeding 20 years, and was amortised in equal annual instalments.
Upon transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004, goodwill was assigned an indefinite useful economic life in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, and it ceased to be amortised.
Impairment reviews are performed annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Trademarks and other intellectual property The cost of securing and renewing trademarks and other intellectual property is capitalised as an intangible fixed asset and amortised by equal annual instalments over its useful economic life, typically ten years.
The useful economic life of trademarks and other intellectual property is determined on a case by case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreement.
Impairment reviews are performed if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Computer software The cost of acquiring computer software including licences and separately identifiable external development costs is capitalised as an intangible asset at purchase price, plus any directly attributable cost of preparing that asset for its intended use.
Software costs are amortised by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic lives, which are up to five years.
g Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost, based on historical revalued amounts, less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value.
Depreciation Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the assets in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: Land Not depreciated Freehold buildings Up to 50 years Leaseholds less than 50 years expired Over the unexpired term of the lease Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings 3 8 years Retail fixtures and fittings 2 5 years Office equipment 5 years Computer equipment Up to 5 years Impairment Impairment reviews are undertaken when performance trends or changes in circumstances suggest that the net book value of an item of property, plant or equipment is not fully recoverable.
Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment represent the difference between the net proceeds and net book value at the date of sale.
Disposals are accounted for when the relevant transaction becomes unconditional.
h Non-current assets held for sale A non-current asset is classified as held for sale, when its carrying value will be recovered principally through sale.
Non-current assets held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell and are not depreciated.
54 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Accounting policies continued i Impairment of assets Assets that have an indefinite useful economic life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
j Stock Stock and work in progress are valued on a first-in-first-out basis at the lower of cost including an appropriate proportion of production overhead and net realisable value.
Provision is made to reduce cost to no more than net realisable value having regard to the age and condition of stock, as well as its anticipated saleability.
k Taxation including deferred tax The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the temporary difference arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is exempt from deferred tax.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
l Share capital Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
m Financial instruments A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the balance sheet when the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is no longer recognised when, the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is no longer recognised, when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
The Groups financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and derivative instruments, the accounting for which is explained below.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short term deposits with an original maturity date of three months or less, held with banks, liquidity funds as well as bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are recorded under current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables arise when the Group acquires money, goods or services directly from a creditor with no intention of trading the payable.
They are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derivative instruments Burberry Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain trading transactions.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 55 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Accounting policies continued m Financial instruments continued The principal derivative instruments used are forward currency contracts taken out to hedge highly probable future royalty receivables and product purchases.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : or 2 hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : or 3 classified as held for trading.
The gain or loss on fair value hedges is taken to the income statement, along with the gain or loss on the hedged item for the hedged risk.
The portion of the gain or loss on cash flow hedges determined to be effective, is initially taken to the hedging reserve within equity.
The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised to the income statement when required.
The amount recognised directly to equity is released to the income statement, when the underlying transaction affects the income statement.
If it is expected that all or a portion of a loss recognised directly in equity will not be recovered in one or more future periods or the hedge is no longer expected to occur, the amount that is not expected to be recovered will be reclassified to the income statement.
If a derivative instrument is not designated as a hedge, the gain or loss on revaluation is taken to the income statement.
n Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies within each entity in the Group are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are held at the year end, are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary items are taken to the income statement in the period in which they arise, except where these exchange differences form part of a net investment in overseas subsidiaries of Burberry Group, in which case such differences are taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve within equity.
Translation of the results of overseas businesses The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into the Groups presentation currency of Sterling at the weighted average exchange rate for the year according to the phasing of the Groups trading results.
The weighted average exchange rate is used, as it is considered to approximate the actual exchange rates on the date of the transactions.
The assets and liabilities of such undertakings are translated at the year end exchange rates.
Differences arising on the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiary companies, and on the translation of their results, are taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve within equity and are reported in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 Euro 1.46 1.47 US dollar 1.78 1.85 Hong Kong dollar 13.77 14.40 Korean won 1,796.97 2,040.52 Closing As at As at 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 Euro 1.43 1.45 US dollar 1.74 1.88 Hong Kong dollar 13.48 14.69 Korean won 1,687.95 1,920.46 Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
The average exchange rate achieved by Burberry Group on its Yen royalty income, taking into account its use of Yen forward sale contracts on a monthly basis approximately 12 months in advance of royalty receipts, was Yen 190.3: 1 in the year to 31 March 2006 2005: Yen 184.3: 1.
56 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
