NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A Basis of preparation Burberry Group plc the Company is the parent company of the Burberry Group.
Burberry Group plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange and its principal business is investments in Group companies.
Burberry Group is a luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific: licensing activity is also carried out, principally in Japan.
All of the companies, which comprise Burberry Group, are owned by the Company directly or indirectly.
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention with the exception of financial instruments which are included in the financial statements at fair value and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom and the Companies Act 1985.
B Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Changes to accounting policies and presentation are set out in note C. i Share schemes This accounting policy differs from the prior period, see note C regarding the impact of the change in accounting policy.
Incentive plans Employees in Burberry Group including directors receive certain share incentives relating to Burberry Group plc shares.
The cost of the share incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
The Black-Scholes option pricing model is used to determine the fair value of the award made.
The impact of performance conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant, except for conditions linked to the price of a Burberry Group plc share, i. e. market conditions.
Vesting conditions which relate to nonmarket conditions are allowed for in the assumptions about the number of options expected to vest.
The estimate of the number of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.
The cost of the share based incentives are recharged and recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards in the entity employing the relevant persons receiving the share awards.
A corresponding increase in equity is recognised in Burberry Group plc.
The proceeds received from the exercise of the equity instruments awarded, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium in Burberry Group plc.
ii Dividend distribution This accounting policy differs from the prior period, see note C regarding the impact of the change in accounting policy.
Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by the shareholders for the final dividend or paid in respect of the interim dividend.
iii Investments in Group companies Investments in Group companies are stated at cost, less any provision to reflect impairment in value.
Loans to Group companies are considered to be part of the net investment in the subsidiary and any foreign exchange gains or losses made on these loans are recognised in the profit and loss account.
iv Impairment of assets Assets that have an indefinite useful economic life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
v Taxation including deferred tax Deferred taxation is recognised as a liability or asset if transactions have occurred at the balance sheet date that give rise to an obligation to pay more taxation in future, or a right to pay less taxation in future.
An asset is not recognised to the extent that the realisation of economic benefits in the future is uncertain.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 99
