NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED B Accounting policies continued vi Share capital This accounting policy differs from the prior period, see note C regarding the impact of the change in accounting policy.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Redeemable preference shares are considered to be a liability and are disclosed under non-current liabilities on the balance sheet.
vii Financial instruments This accounting policy differs from the prior period, see note C regarding the impact of the change in accounting policy.
Details of the accounting policies for the year to 31 March 2005 can be found in note 2 and 32 of the Groups consolidated accounts for that year.
Financial instruments are reported and measured in accordance with FRS 25 and FRS 26 respectively.
The Company used the exemption not to present FRS 25 disclosures in the notes to the entitys financial statements as full equivalent disclosures are presented within the consolidated financial statements.
viii Foreign currency transactions Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are held at the year end, are translated into Sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary items are taken to the profit and loss account in the period in which they arise.
ix Cash flow statement The Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement under FRS 1 revised 1996 Cash flow statements, as it is a part of Burberry Group and the cash flow for the Company is included in the consolidated financial statements of Burberry Group.
x Related party transactions FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures requires the disclosure of the details of material transactions and balances between the reporting entity and related parties.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under the terms of FRS 8, not to disclose details of transactions with entities that are part of Burberry Group.
C Changes in accounting policies and presentation The Accounting Standards Board have issued a number of new financial reporting standards in the period 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006, which impact on the financial statements for the Company.
The results for the year to 31 March 2006, have incorporated the impact of the adoption of the following accounting standards: FRS 20 Share based payments FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date FRS 23 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates FRS 25 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation FRS 26 Financial instruments: measurements The adoption of each of these standards represents a change in accounting policy and comparative figures have been restated accordingly, except where the exemption from restating comparatives has been taken.
The comparative information has been restated to reflect the changes required by FRS 20.
The impact of this change was an increase in debtors due after one year of 23.3m 2004: 13.8m and an increase in the profit and loss reserves of 23.3m 2004: 13.8m as at 31 March 2005.
The comparative information has also been restated to reflect the changes required by FRS 21.
The impact of this change was to reduce creditors due within one year by 21.7m 2004: 14.9m and increase the profit and loss reserves by 21.7m 2004: 14.9m as at 31 March 2005.
FRS 23, FRS 25 and FRS 26 have been adopted in the current year.
FRS 23 has no material impact on the previously reported accounts.
100 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
