PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES Company Country of incorporation Nature of business Spain Burberry Spain S. A. Spain Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Spain Retail S. L. Spain Luxury goods retailer Mercader y Casadevall S. A. Spain Luxury goods retailer Europe Burberry Limited UK Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler and licensor Burberry Italy Retail Limited UK Luxury goods retailer The Scotch House Limited UK Luxury goods brand and licensor Woodrow-Universal Limited UK Textile manufacturer Burberry France S. A. S. U. France Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Suisse S. A. Switzerland Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Italy SRL Italy Luxury goods wholesaler Burberry Deutschland GmbH Germany Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Holdings GmbH Austria Luxury goods retailer North America Burberry Limited USA Luxury goods retailer Burberry Wholesale Limited USA Luxury goods wholesaler Asia Pacific Burberry Asia Ltd Hong Kong Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Singapore Distribution Company Pte Ltd Singapore Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Pacific Pty Ltd Australia Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Korea Ltd Korea Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Taiwan Co Ltd Taiwan Luxury goods retailer Burberry Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia Luxury goods retailer Burberry Japan KK Japan Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler and licensor Held directly by Burberry Group plc All principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned as at 31 March 2006 and operate in the country in which they are incorporated with the exception of Burberry Italy Retail Limited, which operates principally in Italy.
All the subsidiary undertakings have been consolidated as at 31 March 2006.
Non-operating intermediate holding and financing companies are excluded from the list above.
Up to 13 December 2005 Burberry Group plc, which is the ultimate parent undertaking as at 31 March 2006, was 65 percent owned by GUS Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of GUS plc, which is registered in England and Wales.
Up to 13 December 2005, the ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party was GUS plc.
94 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
