NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 Bank overdrafts and borrowings As at As at 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Unsecured: Bank overdrafts 51.2 Bank borrowings 50.0 Total 101.2 Bank overdrafts represent balances on cash pooling arrangements in the Group.
The effective interest rate for the overdraft balances is 5.3% 2005: nil.
A 200m five year multi currency revolving facility was agreed with a syndicate of third party banks commencing on 30 March 2005.
At 31 March 2006, the amount drawn down was 50m 2005:nil.
This drawdown was made in Sterling.
Interest is charged on this loan at LIBOR plus 0.325% per annum and the borrowing matured on 27 April 2006.
28 Financial risk management The Groups principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise cash and short term deposits, external borrowings, redeemable preference shares, deferred consideration, as well as trade debtors and creditors, arising directly from operations.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risks including currency risk, fair value interest risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group treasury.
The Group treasury department seeks to reduce financial risk and to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest in cash assets safely and profitably.
This is done in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
The Group treasury department does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to the underlying business requirements.
The policies of Group treasury are reviewed and approved by the Board of directors.
The Group uses derivative instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
i Market Risk Foreign exchange risk The group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures.
Burberry Group monitors the desirability of hedging the profits and the net assets of the overseas subsidiaries when translated in to Sterling for reporting purposes.
It has not entered into any specific transactions for this purpose.
Burberry Groups income statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency.
To reduce exposure to currency fluctuations, Burberry Group has a policy of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward exchange contracts see note 26.
The Groups accounting policy in relation to derivative instruments are set out in note 2.
Price Risk The Groups exposure to equity securities price risk is minimal.
The Group is not exposed to commodity price risk.
ii Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
It has policies in place to ensure that wholesale sales of products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash or via major credit cards.
In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets, which comprise cash and short term deposits and certain derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counter party with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying value of these instruments.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 75
