Directors Report on Remuneration cont.
These awards vest on the third anniversary of the award date.
These awards vest on the third anniversary of the award date subject to the satisfaction of performance targets as described above.
In 2007, in respect of performance in 2006, the Remuneration Committee decided that executive directors should be granted base awards of performance shares to the following values: Tim Breedon, 370,000: Kate Avery, 175,000: Andrew Palmer, 220,000: Robin Phipps, 225,000 and John Pollock, 160,000.
The table shows the maximum number of shares which could be awarded if awards were to vest in full.
The 2006 award share price was 140.58p.
46 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 1 PENSION ENTITLEMENTS Transfer Transfer Increase Accumulated value of value of decrease Increase in accrued accrued accrued net of accrued pension at benets at benets at employee Age at pension 31 December 31 December 31 December contributions 31 December in 2006 2006 2006 2005 in 2006 2006 000 000 000 000 000 Kate Avery 46 5 22 308 226 69 1 Tim Breedon 48 68 233 3,489 2,302 1,178 1 Andrew Palmer 53 21 214 3,760 3,348 391 Robin Phipps 56 14 243 4,763 4,166 576 John Pollock 48 12 126 1,836 1,575 256 Notes The information in this table has been audited by the independent auditors,  LLP.
The transfer values of accrued benets at 31 December 2005 for Tim Breedon and Andrew Palmer respectively, are 131,000 and 194,000 higher than the gures disclosed in the 2005 Annual Report and Accounts.
The amounts disclosed at 31 December 2005 in the table above reect a bonus sacrifice amounts in March 2005 which were not shown in the equivalent table in the prior year.
The increase in accrued pension during the year excludes any increase for ination.
On retirement from Legal & General at age 60 and subject to statutory limits, executive directors are entitled to pensions as follows: Andrew Palmer and Robin Phipps: two thirds of their annual salary.
Tim Breedon and John Pollock: one sixtieth of eligible salary for each year of service through to the date they opted for enhanced protection.
Since opting for enhanced protection on 6 April 2006 they have received a cash supplement in lieu of pension accrual as shown in the Directors Remuneration table.
Consistent with the legislation their pensionable earnings at their retirement will be used to determine their ultimate pension entitlements.
Kate Avery: one sixtieth of eligible salary for each year of service.
On death in service, a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable, together with a spouses pension of four ninths of the members pensionable remuneration.
Protection is also offered in the event of serious ill health.
This latter benefit has no transfer value in the event of the insured leaving service.
Directors, like all managers, may elect, before its award, to sacrifice all or part of their cash bonus into pension.
Directors Loans At 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005 there were no loans outstanding made to directors.
Service Contracts The policy and practice for the notice entitlement of all executive directors is a six month rolling notice period, plus a six months salary, pension and car allowance entitlement on termination.
These entitlements may be mitigated and or spread over the period of notice.
Copies of executive directors service contracts are available for inspection during normal working hours at the registered ofce.
The date of the contract is the appointment date in the section on directors.
External Appointments The Company considers that certain external appointments can help to broaden the experience and capability of the executive directors.
Any such appointments are subject to annual agreement by the Remuneration Committee and must not be with competing companies.
Subject to the Committees agreement, any fees may be retained by the individual.
Tim Breedon receives 15,000 as a director of the Financial Reporting Council, Andrew Palmer receives fees of 44,000 as a non-executive director of Slough Estates plc and Kate Avery receives fees of 30,000 as a non-executive director of Kelda Group plc.
Robin Phipps is an unpaid director of the ABI.
The Directors Report on Remuneration was approved by the directors on 12 March 2007.
Sir David Walker Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Independent Verication Review New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC act as advisers to the Remuneration Committee.
In addition, they were asked to verify that the 2006 remuneration practice for executive directors followed the Remuneration Policy put to the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
In conducting this work, NBSC has reviewed the elements of executive director remuneration during 2006, as detailed in the policy statements of the Directors Report on Remuneration 2005 DRR 2005.
They confirmed that they are satisfied that the remuneration practice during 2006 has been in line with the stated policy set out in the DRR 2005. www.
com 47 Corporate Governance Report of the Audit Committee Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee reference and expected time commitment by members: and an The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the nonoverview of the Groups business, including the main business and executive directors of Legal & General Group Plc.
It is a Committee financial dynamics and risks.
New Committee members also meet of the Board established pursuant to Article 113 of the Articles some of the Groups staff.
ongoing training includes attendance at of Association.
formal conferences, internal Company seminars and briengs by The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters external advisers.
indicated by the Combined Code, except the oversight of The Board expects the Audit Committee members to have an compliance risks, including adherence to the Financial Services understanding of the following areas: and Markets Act 2000, which is the direct responsibility of the Board.
The Group Risk & Compliance Committee, which reports to the the principles of, contents of, and developments in financial Group Board and whose minutes are copied to the Audit reporting including the applicable accounting standards and Committee, supervises the Groups Risk Framework and therefore statements of recommended practice: considers all risks including compliance risk.
The terms of reference key aspects of the Companys operations and risk control are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then framework including corporate policies, company nancing, referred to the Board for approval.
products and systems of internal control: The primary objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the matters that inuence or distort the presentation of accounts Board of Directors in fulling its responsibilities relating to: and key gures: the principles of, and developments in, company law, sectorexternal financial reporting and associated announcements: specic laws and other relevant corporate legislation: the independence of the Groups external auditor: the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: the resourcing, plans and overall effectiveness of the internal the regulatory framework for the Groups businesses: audit department: environmental and social responsibility best practices: and the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment: and current issues pertaining to the above areas.
the Groups compliance with the Combined Code on Meetings Corporate Governance.
The Audit Committee is required to meet four times per year and The Audit Committee Chairman reports the outcome of has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
meetings to the Board, and the Board receives the minutes The agenda is predominantly cyclical and is therefore approved of all Committee meetings.
by the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his fellow members: The Audit Committee has unrestricted access to Company each Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on documents and information, as well as to employees of the matters of interest in addition to the cyclical items.
Company and the external auditor.
The Audit Committee invites the Group Chief Executive, Group Director Finance, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief Internal Composition of the Audit Committee Auditor, Group Actuary and senior representatives of the external The members of the Audit Committee are: auditor to attend all of its meetings in full, although it reserves the Date of appointment right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
Other senior management are invited to present such reports as are required Henry Staunton 26 July 2004 and appointed for the Committee to discharge its duties.
Chairman on 27 April 2005 Overview of the Actions Taken by the Audit Committee to Discharge Frances Heaton 14 November 2001 its Duties Barrie Morgans 5 March 1998 and resigned on In order to full its terms of reference, the Audit Committee receives and challenges presentations or reports from the 18 May 2006 Groups senior management, consulting as necessary with James Strachan 21 January 2004 senior representatives of the external auditor and the independent actuaries.
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board to Committee, Henry Staunton, and the Group Chairman, who is not full its responsibilities relating to external financial reporting a member of the Audit Committee, at regular intervals.
The Committee reviewed Where necessary, they will recommend new appointments to the the interim and annual financial statements, together with the Nominations Committee for onward recommendation to the Board.
associated Stock Exchange announcements, having received Appointments are for a period of three years and are extendible by information on: no more than two additional three year periods.
The Committee is normally comprised of four independent non-executive directors, the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in with a minimum of three members at any time.
Three members the Groups accounts: constitute a quorum.
changes proposed to those principles, policies and practices: The Audit Committee structure requires the inclusion of one significant accounting issues: nancially qualied member as recognised by the Consultative current actuarial issues: Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
Currently the Audit Committee the level of insurance provisions and reserves: Chairman fulls this requirement.
litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the Group: and All Audit Committee members are expected to be nancially potential tax contingencies and the Groups compliance with literate and to have relevant corporate finance experience.
The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit Committee members and ongoing training to enable all of the The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board to full its Committee members to carry out their duties.
The induction responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the programme covers the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of control environment and the Groups compliance with the 48 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Combined Code.
To full these duties, the Committee reviewed: external auditor: the fee proposal presented by the external auditor: the report entitled Directors view on Internal Controls submitted the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and to the Audit Committee by the Group Risk & Compliance their resolution: Committee which sets out the framework of risk management, the key accounting and audit judgements: control monitoring, and any control issues that have arisen: the levels of errors identied during the audit: and the minutes of the Group Risk & Compliance Committee meetings the recommendations made by the external auditor in the during 2006: management letter, entitled The Internal Control Report, and the the annual Internal Control Report for 2005 presented by the adequacy of managements response.
external auditor: Internal Audit reports on key audit areas and significant control During 2006, the Audit Committee supervised the tender for environment deficiencies: and the position of external auditor and, on the basis of the tender reports on frauds perpetrated against the Group and current submissions and as a consequence of its satisfaction with the fraud trends.
results of the activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that  LLP The Audit Committee Chairman reports back to the Committee on is reappointed as external auditor.
the Group Risk & Compliance Committee meetings which he attends.
Internal Audit Function During the year the Audit Committee undertook a formal review The Audit Committee is committed to supporting Internal Audit of its own effectiveness and is satisfied that it had been operating and maintaining its ongoing relationship with the department to as an effective Audit Committee meeting all applicable legal and enable Internal Audit to assist the Committee to full its statutory regulatory requirements.
These reviews are undertaken annually.
responsibilities in relation to the adequacy and effectiveness of the External Audit control environment and the Groups compliance with the The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, Combined Code.
implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external The Audit Committee is also required to assist the Board to full its audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing, plans and independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and overall effectiveness of the Internal Audit department.
regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, and day-to-day To full all of these responsibilities, the Committee reviewed: responsibility to the Group Director Finance.
The policy states that the external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board and the Audit Internal Audits plans for 2006 and its achievement of the Committee and that the Audit Committee is the primary contact.
planned activity: The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of the results of key audits and other significant findings, the non-audit services which the external auditor will and will not be adequacy of managements response and the timeliness of allowed to provide to the Group.
The policy requires preresolution: conrmation by the Audit Committee of any non-audit work subject statistics on staff numbers, qualications and experience to fide minimis levels.
and timeliness of reporting: and To full its responsibility regarding the independence of the the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: Internal Audit.
the changes in key external audit staff in the plan for the current The Groups Public Interest Disclosure Policy the Whistleblowing year presented by the external auditor: Policy sets out arrangements for employees, contractors and third the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit parties to raise concerns or complaints regarding accounting, risk relationship: issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters with a report identifying the number of external audit staff now relevant line management or senior Group managers.
These are employed by the Group and their positions within the Group: escalated to the Group Chief Internal Auditor GCIA in confidence, a report from the external auditor describing their arrangements for reporting to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
to identify, report and manage any conicts of interest: and The Audit Committee holds private meetings with the external the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors and with the GCIA after Committee meetings to review key auditor, in addition to their case-by-case approval of the provision issues within their spheres of interest and responsibility as considered of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The GCIA reports functionally to the Committee and To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Audit administratively to the Group Director Finance.
The GCIA has a Committee reviewed: private meeting with the Audit Committee Chairman at least four times during the course of the year and has regular monthly the fullment of the agreed audit plan and variations from the meetings with the Group Chief Executive and the Group Director plan undertaken by the external auditor: Finance where key risk and control issues are discussed.
the robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor in The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM handling the key accounting and audit judgements: and to answer questions, through the Chairman of the Board, on the the content of the Internal Control Report presented by the report on the Audit Committees activities, matters within the scope external auditor.
of the Audit Committees responsibilities and any significant matters To full its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, brought to the Audit Committees attention by the external auditor.
the Audit Committee reviewed: The Corporate Governance pages of the Legal & General website provide supplementary information including the terms the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of of reference for the Audit Committee and the Groups policy on the audit as set out in the engagement letter for the forthcoming external audit.
year from the external auditor: the overall work plan for the forthcoming year presented by the www.
com 49 Report of the Nominations Committee The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and Activities comprises all the non-executive directors.
The meetings may be The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on attended by executive directors, as appropriate.
succession for executive directors, the reappointment of any The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board non-executive director at the conclusion of their specified term appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
of ofce, any matter relating to the continuation in ofce of any All members of the Committee are independent, non-executive director at any time and the appointment of any director to directors.
The Chairman does not chair the Nominations Committee executive or other ofce.
when it is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the During 2006 the Nominations Committee recommended to the Chairmanship, in which case the Committee is chaired by the Senior Board the appointment of Rudy Markham as a non-executive Independent Director.
The Committee met twice during 2006. director.
The Board adopted this proposal.
Duties Corporate Website The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the The terms of reference of the Committee, which sets out the role approval of the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and and the authority delegated to it by the Board, are available for when they arise.
Before making an appointment, the Committee inspection at the Companys registered ofce and can be viewed evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the on the Companys website.
Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a description of The formal letters of appointment of non-executive directors are the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
also available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and The Committee reviews annually the time required from a noncan be viewed on the Companys Corporate website, executive director.
The annual performance evaluation is used to www.
assess whether the non-executive director is spending enough time to full his or her duties.
Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are considered.
The Committee uses external advisers to facilitate searches for potential candidates.
The Committee gives full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future.
The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and, if appropriate, makes recommendations to the Board.
In this respect, the Committee has regard to the results of the annual performance evaluation.
The Committee keeps under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace.
50 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Legal & General Group Plc is the ultimate holding company for a KPI Denitions group of insurance, investment management and financial services EEV Operating profit companies.
The Companys principal operating subsidiaries are set out on pages 99 and 100.
Denition: Legal & General provides supplementary financial statements prepared on the European Embedded Value EEV Business Review basis for long term insurance contracts see pages 117 to 133.
Information on the Groups principal activities together with a The EEV gures provide an assessment of the value which has review of the development and performance of the Group, been generated by the business during a period.
including financial performance in accordance with Section 234ZZB Calculation: Operating profit on the EEV basis reports the change Companies Act 1985 is set out on pages 9 to 33. in embedded value in a period, but excludes uctuations from The Key Performance Indicators KPIs are dened in the table assumed longer term investment return.
The KPIs for the Group in 2006 are shown in the following table: Purpose: In the Boards opinion, EEV operating profit provides shareholders with a better understanding of the Groups 2006 2005 performance than IFRS, as it provides information about EEV operating profit 1,233m 1,092m the value which is being created on the Group's long term insurance contracts.
IFRS operating profit 752m 647m Return on embedded value 12.5% 12.6% IFRS Operating profit IGD surplus 2.1bn 2.4bn Denition: The Groups primary financial statements see pages Three year total shareholder return 80% 50% 55 to 116 are prepared on the International Financial Reporting Figures extracted from draft regulatory returns Standards IFRS basis which all EU listed companies are required The Principal Risks and Uncertainties facing the Group are set out on to follow.
Calculation: IFRS operating profit measures the pre-tax result using Result for the Year an assumed longer term investment return.
Any variance between actual and assumed investment return is reported below operating The IFRS profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the financial year was 1,564m 2005: 944m profit and the earnings per profit.
For UK life and pensions, the maximum operating profit is based on a formula agreed with the FSA which is set out in Note share were 24.12p 2005: 14.33p.
The consolidated balance sheet on 3 iv of the Financial Statements.
page 56 and the consolidated income statement on page 55 show the affairs of the Group as at, and for the year Purpose: IFRS operating profit gives an insight into the Groups ended, 31 December 2006.
An analysis of worldwide gross written ability to generate cash ows to support dividends during a period.
premiums is shown on page 70, Note 4 iv.
Return on Embedded Value ROEV Dividend Denition: ROEV measures the return earned by shareholders The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 3.81p on shareholder capital retained within the business.
With the interim dividend of 1.74p per share paid on 2 October 2006, this brings the total dividend recommended for Calculation: ROEV is calculated as EEV operating profit after 2006 to 5.55p per share 2005: 5.28p, an increase of 5.1%.
The final tax divided by opening EEV shareholders funds.
dividend will be paid on 21 May 2007 to members registered at the Purpose: ROEV provides a link between performance and close of business on 20 April 2007.
The cost of the dividend paid for balance sheet management and ensures that an optimal the year is 349m.
Directors IGD Surplus A list of the current directors of the Company, together with biographical notes, is shown on pages 32 and 33.
All current Denition: The IGD surplus is an FSA regulatory measure which directors remained in ofce throughout 2006 with the exception calculates surplus capital within the Group.
of Rudy Markham, who was appointed on 1 October 2006.
Barrie Calculation: IGD surplus is dened as Group regulatory capital Morgans retired from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual employed less the Group regulatory capital requirement.
Surplus General Meeting AGM on 18 May 2006. capital held within our Society Long Term Fund cannot be included The following changes are proposed in 2007: in the IGD denition of capital employed.
Beverley Hodson will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 16 May 2007.
Purpose: IGD surplus is the dominant regulatory surplus capital The directors retiring by rotation at the AGM are, Kate Avery, John measure for the Group.
Pollock, Dr Ronaldo Schmitz and James Strachan who, being Total Shareholder Return TSR eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Denition: TSR is a measure used to compare the performance of Rudy Markham has been appointed since the last AGM and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
different companies' stocks and shares over time.
It combines the share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total Kate Avery and John Pollock have service contracts which are return to the shareholder.
terminable by them or the Company on receipt of no less than six months written notice.
On termination, they would become entitled Calculation: TSR is the change in share price over a three year to six months salary and benets.
performance period, plus the value of reinvested dividends, relative The terms and conditions of Rudy Markham, James Strachan and to the performance of all the other companies in the FTSE 100.
Dr Ronaldo Schmitzs appointment are available for inspection at Purpose: TSR measures total return to shareholders over the the Companys registered ofce and at the AGM.
The Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 40 to 47 provides Share Capital details of the current incentive schemes, the interests of directors in As at 13 March 2007, the Company had received notications from the share capital of the Company and details of their share options Aviva and its subsidiary companies, Swiss Reinsurance Company and other long term incentives.
group of companies and Barclays Plc of holdings of the Companys The changes in directors share interests between 31 December share capital with voting rights amounting to 3.14%, 3.14% and 2006 and 13 March 2007 are outlined in the tables below.
The executive directors share purchases were made pursuant to Resolution 11, set out in the notice of the AGM, will authorise the their participation in the Employee Share Plan: directors to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,165,650, being 5% of the total issued capital as at 13 March 2007 being the last practicable date prior to publication of the AGM Notice.
2 January 1 February 1 March Resolution 12, set out in the notice of the AGM, will authorise the 2007 2007 2007 directors to issue further shares up to the equivalent of 5% of the Tim Breedon 90 92 92 Companys issued share capital as at 13 March 2007 being the last Kate Avery 90 92 92 practicable date prior to publication of the AGM Notice for cash Andrew Palmer 91 91 92 without offering the shares first to existing shareholders by way of Robin Phipps 90 92 91 rights.
It is not intended, without prior consultation with the John Pollock 90 92 92 Investment Committee of the Association of British Insurers, to issue in this way more than 7.5% of the unissued share capital in any The non-executive directors acquired shares pursuant to the regular rolling three year period.
The resolution will also authorise the monthly purchase of shares as part of their remuneration.
directors to allot shares in connection with a rights issue otherwise than strictly pro rata where practical considerations, such as fractions and foreign securities laws, make this desirable.
2 January 1 February 1 March 2007 2007 2007 Details of the number, the consideration and the reason for the issue of shares by the Company during the year are set out on page Sir Rob Margetts 4,260 4,998 5,177 83, Note 28.
Frances Heaton 916 915 947 Other than the above, the directors have no current intention of Beverley Hodson 916 915 947 issuing further share capital and no issue will be made which would 1 Rudy Markham nil nil nil effectively alter control of the Company without prior approval of Ronaldo Schmitz 916 915 947 the members in general meeting.
Henry Staunton 1,225 1,223 1,267 Directors Indemnities James Strachan 916 915 947 On 3 January 2006, the Company agreed in writing to indemnify Sir David Walker 1,225 1,223 1,267 each of the directors against any liability incurred by the director 1.
See Remuneration Report for explanation of Rudy Markhams fee arrangements.
in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of their ofce.
The indemnity only applies to the extent permitted by law.
Copies United Kingdom Employees of the Deeds of Indemnity are available for inspection at the It is the Groups policy to treat its employees without discrimination Registered Ofce and at the AGM.
and to operate equal opportunity employment practices designed to achieve this end.
Risk Management and Control Furthermore, it is the Groups policy to give full and fair Details of the Companys risk management and control policies are consideration to applications for employment made by disabled disclosed in Note 51 to the Financial Statements on pages 106 to 116. persons: to continue, wherever possible, the employment of staff Insurance who become disabled and to provide equal opportunities for the Legal & General maintains an appropriate level of Directors and training and career development of disabled employees.
Ofcers liability insurance which is reviewed annually.
The Group seeks to achieve an awareness among staff of corporate objectives and performance, financial and economic Environment factors affecting the business and other matters of concern to them Details of the Groups commitment to environmental issues, as part as employees.
During the year, staff were provided with information of its Corporate Social Responsibility programme, are set out on through briengs by managers, training courses, email bulletins, staff pages 28 to 31. newspapers and circulars.
United Kingdom Donations The Company operates a savings related share option scheme During 2006, charitable donations totalling 2.3m 2005: 1.3m were SAYE, a Company Share Option Plan and an Employee Share Plan, all made.
In 2005 purely charitable donations were disclosed.
In 2006 of which are approved by Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC.
both charitable donations and charitable sponsorship have been Details of employee share schemes and long term incentives are disclosed.
No political donations were made during the year included in the Directors Report on Remuneration on Pages 40 to 47.
Purchase of Own Shares Payments to Suppliers The directors propose to seek shareholders approval to increase The Group agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions from 5%-10% the authority for the Company to purchase its own with suppliers.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms shares up to a total of 653,252,004 ordinary shares of 2.5p each, provided the supplier meets its obligations.
having an aggregate nominal value of 16,331,300, being 10% of the The Company has no trade creditors.
As at 31 December 2006, issued nominal ordinary share capital as at 13 March 2007 being the average number of days of payments outstanding for the the last practicable date prior to publication of the AGM Notice.
Legal & General Group of companies was 31 2005: 33.
A Special Resolution seeking shareholders authority is set out in the notice of the AGM in the accompanying Circular to Shareholders.
52 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: 1. so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and 2. the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
On behalf of the Board Claire Davies Group Secretary 13 March 2007 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the The directors confirm that they comply with the above profit or loss of the Group for that period, and which comply with requirements.
The directors are also responsible for: the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
In preparing ensuring that the Company and Group have suitable internal those financial statements, the directors are required to: controls for maintaining proper accounting records, which select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and prudent: position of the Company and of the Group: state whether applicable accounting standards have been safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group: and followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of explained in the financial statements: and fraud and other irregularities.
com 53 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Legal & General Group Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Legal & General Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
These the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Legal & General Group Plc for the year ended circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 31 December 2006 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2006 and of members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with The information given in the Directors Report includes that specic the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, cross-referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not 31 December 2006 and of its profit and cash ows for the year received all the information and explanations we require for our then ended.
audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on  LLP the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors or its risk and control procedures.
London We read other information contained in the Annual Report and 13 March 2007 consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors a The financial statements are published on the website of Legal & General Report, the unaudited part of Directors Report on Remuneration, Group Plc, www.
The maintenance and integrity of the Chairmans Statement, the Group Chief Executives Review, the Legal & General Group Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the the Operating and Financial Review, the Report of the Audit work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these Committee, the Report of the Nominations Committee and the matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements presented on the website.
or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
54 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Consolidated Income Statement For the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 Notes m m Revenue Gross written premiums 4 4,286 4,084 Outward reinsurance premiums 518 406 Net change in provision for unearned premiums 7 6 Net premiums earned 3,775 3,672 Fees from fund management and investment contracts 535 348 Investment return 6 16,572 26,931 Operational income 84 38 Total revenue 4 20,966 30,989 Expenses Claims and change in insurance liabilities 1,938 6,367 Reinsurance recoveries 1,123 19 Net claims and change in insurance liabilities 7 3,061 6,386 Change in provisions for investment contract liabilities 13,878 21,369 Acquisition costs 987 550 Finance costs 153 116 Other expenses 8 674 619 Transfers to unallocated divisible surplus 284 360 Total expenses 4 19,037 29,400 profit before income tax 11 1,929 1,589 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 13 89 206 profit from continuing operations before income tax attributable to equity holders 2,018 1,383 Total income tax expense 13 298 577 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 13 89 206 Income tax attributable to equity holders 13 387 371 profit from continuing operations after income tax 1,631 1,012 profit from discontinued operations 14 13 profit from ordinary activities after income tax 1,631 1,025 Attributable to: Minority interests 31 67 81 Equity holders of the Company 1,564 944 Dividend distributions to ordinary equity holders of the Company during the year 15 349 331 Distributions during the year on subordinated borrowings designated as equity 15 16 Dividend distributions to ordinary equity holders of the Company proposed after the year end 15 248 236 p p Earnings per share 16 Based on profit from continuing operations after income tax attributable to ordinary equity holders 24.12 14.13 Based on profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company 24.12 14.33 Diluted earnings per share 16 Based on profit from continuing operations after income tax attributable to ordinary equity holders 23.95 13.76 Based on profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company 23.95 13.95 www.
com 55 Consolidated Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2006 2006 2005 Notes m m Assets Investment in associates 48 16 16 Plant and equipment 18 43 32 Investment property 19 6,852 5,774 Financial investments 20 201,430 176,622 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 22 1,481 2,779 Purchased interest in long term businesses 23 23 25 Deferred acquisition costs 24 1,456 1,375 Income tax recoverable 25 12 79 Other assets 26 1,622 1,162 Cash and cash equivalents 27 4,930 4,001 Total assets 4 217,865 191,865 Equity Share capital 28 163 163 Share premium account 28 923 908 Treasury shares 28 45 36 Other reserves 29 49 34 Retained earnings 30 4,335 3,188 Capital and reserves attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company 5,425 4,257 Subordinated borrowings designated as equity 38 394 Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the Company 5,425 4,651 Minority interests 31 414 285 Total equity 4 32 5,839 4,936 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings 38 818 415 Participating insurance contracts 33 12,660 13,180 Participating investment contracts 34 7,501 7,476 Unallocated divisible surplus 35 2,178 1,894 Value of in-force non-participating contracts 36 391 379 Participating contract liabilities 21,948 22,171 Non-participating insurance contracts 33 21,602 23,152 Non-participating investment contracts 34 162,016 135,804 Non-participating contract liabilities 183,618 158,956 Senior borrowings 38 1,607 1,634 Provisions 40 568 582 Deferred income liabilities 41 422 351 Deferred tax liabilities 42 472 492 Income tax liabilities 25 106 197 Other liabilities 43 1,663 1,303 Net asset value attributable to unitholders 804 828 Total liabilities 4 212,026 186,929 Total equity and liabilities 217,865 191,865 The notes on pages 59 to 116 form an integral part of these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 55 to 116 and the supplementary financial statements on pages 117 to 133 were approved by the directors on 13 March 2006 and were signed on their behalf by: Sir Rob Margetts Tim Breedon Andrew Palmer Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Director Finance 56 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense For the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 m m Fair value losses on cash ow hedges 3 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 35 20 Actuarial gains losses on dened benefit pension schemes 3 55 Actuarial gains losses on dened benefit pension schemes transferred to unallocated divisible surplus 1 22 Net change in financial investments designated as available-for-sale 7 10 1 Net expense recognised directly in equity 29 23 profit from ordinary activities after income tax 1,631 1,025 Total recognised income and expense 1,602 1,002 Attributable to: Minority interests 67 81 Equity holders of the Company 1,535 921 1.
com 57 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement For the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 Notes m m Cash ows from operating activities profit from ordinary activities after income tax 1,631 1,025 Adjustments for non cash movements in net profit for the period Realised and unrealised gains on financial investments and investment properties 9,505 20,962 Investment income 6,630 5,646 Interest expense 153 116 Income tax payable 298 577 Other adjustments 46 40 Net increase decrease in operational assets Investments designated as held for trading or fair value through profit or loss 9,599 16,519 Investments designated as available-for-sale 251 86 Other assets 557 294 Net increase decrease in operational liabilities Insurance contracts 1,893 3,071 Transfer to unallocated divisible surplus 285 338 Investment contracts 19,527 33,173 Value of in-force non-participating contracts 12 55 Other liabilities 596 536 Cash used in operations 4,797 4,404 Interest paid 146 96 Interest received 3,478 2,967 Income tax paid 315 240 Dividends received 3,095 2,576 Net cash ows from operating activities 1,315 803 Cash ows from investing activities Net acquisition of plant and equipment 24 22 Net proceeds from disposal of Ventures investments 14 10 23 Net proceeds from disposal of Gresham 14 73 Non-financial investments purchased 3 19 Net cash ows from investing activities 17 55 Cash ows from nancing activities Dividend distributions to ordinary equity holders of the Company during the year 349 331 Distributions during the year on subordinated borrowings designated as equity 16 Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 15 1 Purchase of treasury shares 11 15 Proceeds from borrowings 1,062 764 Repayment of borrowings 1,051 257 Other 1 Net cash ows from nancing activities 334 145 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 964 1,003 Exchange losses gains on cash and cash equivalents 35 6 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 4,001 2,992 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 27 4,930 4,001 The Groups consolidated cash ow statement includes all cash and cash equivalent ows, including those relating to the UK Long Term Funds.
58 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Financial Statements Investments in Associates, it is presumed that the Group has 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES significant inuence where it has between 20% and 50% of the Basis of preparation voting rights in the investee.
Joint ventures are entities where the The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance Group and other parties undertake an activity which is subject to with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs issued by the joint control.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted The Group has interests in associates and joint ventures by the European Commission EC for use in the European Union.
which form part of an investment portfolio held through venture The Groups financial statements also comply with IFRSs as issued capital partnerships, mutual funds, unit trusts and similar entities.
In accordance with the choices permitted by IAS 28 and IAS 31, The Group presents its balance sheet broadly in order of liquidity.
Interests in Joint Ventures, these interests have been classied This is considered to be more relevant than a before or after twelve as fair value through profit or loss and measured at fair value, months presentation, given the long term nature of the Groups with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
However, for each asset and liability line item which Associates which do not form part of an investment portfolio combines amounts expected to be recovered or settled before are initially recognised in the balance sheet at cost.
The carrying and after twelve months from the balance sheet date, disclosure amount of the associate is increased or decreased to reect the of the split is made by way of note.
Groups share of the profit or loss after the date of the acquisition.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed gross in the balance sheet unless a legally enforceable right of offset exists and Investment vehicles Investment vehicles such as Open Ended Investment Companies, there is an intention to settle recognised amounts on a net basis.
Income and expenses are not offset in the income statement unless where a Group company exerts control over financial and operating policy, are consolidated.
The interests of parties other required or permitted by any accounting standard or International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretation, than the Group in such vehicles are classied as liabilities and appear as Net asset value attributable to unitholders in the as detailed in the applicable accounting policies of the Group.
Use of estimates Product classication The preparation of the financial statements includes the use of The Groups products are classied for accounting purposes as estimates and assumptions which affect items reported in the either insurance contracts participating and non-participating consolidated balance sheet and income statement and the or investment contracts participating and non-participating.
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Insurance contracts are contracts which transfer significant financial statements.
Although these estimates are based on insurance risk to the insurer at the inception of the contract.
managements best knowledge of current circumstances and future Contracts which do not transfer significant insurance risk to the events and actions, actual results may differ from those estimates, insurer are classied as investment contracts.
The significant estimates and assumptions used types, containing both insurance and investment features, have are disclosed in the relevant notes to these financial statements.
been treated as investment contracts when accounting for Summary of significant accounting policies premiums, claims and other revenue.
The Group has selected accounting policies which fairly state its A number of insurance and investment contracts contain financial position and financial performance for a reporting period.
discretionary participating features DPF which entitle the These accounting policies are applied after an assessment of complex policyholders to receive guaranteed benets as well as issues, and may require subjective judgments to be made.
Such additional benets: judgments relate to insurance and investment contract liabilities and the amount or timing of which is contractually at the discretion associated balances, deferred acquisition costs, pension schemes of the Group: and and the determination of fair values of unquoted financial investments.
which are contractually based on: The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing these the performance of a specified pool of contracts or a financial statements are set out below.
The accounting policies specified type of contract: have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified otherwise stated.
pool of assets held by the issuer: or the profit or loss of the Company, fund or other entity which Consolidation principles issues the contract.
Subsidiary undertakings Contracts with DPF are referred to as participating contracts.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities, Participating contracts consist of most with-profits contracts in the equity, revenues, expenses and cash ows of the Company and of UK and most Guarantie Long Term contracts in France.
its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 December each year.
Long term insurance contracts All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are those entities including special Premium income purpose entities, mutual funds and unit trusts over which the Group Premiums are recognised as revenue when the liabilities arising directly or indirectly has the power to govern the operating and from them are created.
All other premiums, including annuity financial policies in order to gain economic benets.
profits or losses considerations, are accounted for when due for payment.
of subsidiary undertakings sold or acquired during the period are Claims included in the consolidated results up to the date of disposal or Death claims are accounted for on notication of death.
Surrenders from the date of gaining control.
for non-linked policies are accounted for when payment is made.
Associates and joint ventures Critical illness claims are accounted for when admitted.
All other Associates are entities over which the Group has significant claims and surrenders are accounted for when payment is due.
inuence but which it does not control.
Consistent with International Claims payable include the direct costs of settlement.
com 59 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Claims are not included in the income statement but are deducted Acquisition costs from investment contract liabilities.
The movement in investment Acquisition costs comprise direct costs, such as initial commission, contract liabilities consists of claims incurred in the period less and the indirect costs of obtaining and processing new business.
the corresponding elimination of the policyholder liability originally Acquisition costs relating to non-participating insurance contracts recognised in the balance sheet and the investment return credited written outside the with-profits part of the UK Long Term Funds LTF to policyholders.
which are incurred during a financial year are deferred by use of Acquisition costs an asset which is amortised over the period during which the costs For participating investment contracts, acquisition costs comprise are expected to be recoverable, and in accordance with the direct costs such as initial commission and the indirect costs of expected incidence of future related margins.
For participating obtaining and processing new business.
These costs are charged contracts, acquisition costs are charged to the income statement to the income statement when incurred.
For non-participating investment contracts, only directly related Insurance contract liabilities acquisition costs which vary with, and are related to, securing Under current IFRS requirements, insurance contract liabilities are new contracts and renewing existing contracts, are deferred and measured using local Generally Accepted Accounting Principles amortised over the period during which the costs are expected to GAAP, as permitted by IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts.
be recoverable from future revenue.
All other costs are recognised In the UK, insurance contract liabilities are determined following as expenses when incurred.
an annual investigation of the LTF in accordance with regulatory Trail commission requirements.
The liabilities are calculated on the basis of current The Group operates distribution agreements with intermediaries information and using the gross premium valuation method.
For where further commission costs are payable in each period which participating contracts the liabilities to policyholders are determined a relevant policy remains in-force.
For relevant non-participating on a realistic basis in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard investment contracts, a liability for the present value of this future FRS 27, Life Assurance.
This includes an assessment of the cost of commission cost is recognised in the balance sheet on inception any future options and guarantees included in this business valued of the contract.
The present value of future commission costs is on a market consistent basis.
The calculation also takes account of deferred as an asset and amortised over the period during which bonus decisions which are consistent with Legal & General the related revenue will be recognised.
At each subsequent Assurance Societys Societys Principles and Practices of Financial reporting date, the liability is remeasured to fair value because Management PPFM.
The shareholders share of the future cost of this financial liability is part of a portfolio of unit linked assets and bonuses is excluded from the assessment of the realistic liability.
In liabilities whose performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
determining the realistic value of liabilities for participating contracts, Any increase in the liability is recognised as an additional deferred the value of non-participating business written in the with-profits part cost.
Any change in lapse assumptions or revisions to the underlying of the fund is accounted for as part of the calculation.
The present assumptions for future cash ows will be reected in the fair value value of future profits VIF on this business is separately determined movement for a period.
If the future commission liability decreases, and its value is deducted from the sum of the liabilities for a corresponding adjustment is made to the amortisation of participating contracts and the unallocated divisible surplus.
The long term insurance contract liabilities for business transacted by overseas subsidiaries are determined on the basis of recognised Investment contract liabilities actuarial methods which reect local supervisory principles or, in Under current IFRS requirements, participating investment contract the case of the USA, on the basis of US GAAP.
liabilities are measured using local GAAP, as permitted by IFRS 4 Long term business liabilities can never be denitive as to their see above for insurance contract liabilities.
In the UK, participating timing or the amount of claims and are therefore subject to investment contract liabilities are determined in accordance with subsequent reassessment on a regular basis.
FRS 27, in the same way as insurance contracts.
Non-participating investment contracts consist of unit Unallocated divisible surplus linked contracts.
Unit linked liabilities are measured at fair The nature of benets for participating contracts is such that value by reference to the value of the underlying net asset the allocation of surpluses between ordinary equity holders and values of the Groups unitised investment funds at the participating policyholders is uncertain.
The amount of surplus which has not been allocated at the balance sheet date is classied balance sheet date.
within liabilities as the unallocated divisible surplus.
Adjustments made General insurance business to comply with FRS 27 are charged to the unallocated divisible surplus.
Results for the General insurance business are determined after Investment contracts taking account of unearned premiums, outstanding claims and unexpired risks using the annual basis of accounting.
Premium income For investment contracts, amounts collected as premiums are not Premium income included in the income statement but are reported as contributions Premiums are accounted for in the period in which the risk to investment contract liabilities in the balance sheet.
Estimates are included for premiums not notied by the year end and provision is made for the anticipated lapse of Revenue from investment contracts renewals not yet confirmed.
Those proportions of premiums written Fees charged for investment management services are recognised in a year which relate to periods of risk extending beyond the end as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, which exceed of the year are carried forward as unearned premiums.
the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of services, are deferred and amortised over the anticipated period Acquisition costs in which the services will be provided.
A proportion of commission and other acquisition costs relating to Fees charged for investment management services for institutional unearned premiums is carried forward as deferred acquisition costs and retail fund management are also recognised on this basis.
or, in respect of reinsurance outwards, as deferred income.
60 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 valuers in the countries concerned.
In the event of a material 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued change in market conditions between the valuation date and balance sheet date, an internal valuation is performed and Technical liabilities adjustments made to reect any material changes in fair value.
Liabilities, together with related reinsurance recoveries, are established on the basis of current information.
Such liabilities can Financial investments never be denitive as to their timing or the amount of claims and The Group classies its financial investments on initial recognition are therefore subject to subsequent reassessment on a regular basis.
as held for trading HFT, designated at fair value through profit or Claims and related reinsurance recoveries are accounted for loss FVTPL, available-for-sale AFS or loans and receivables.
Initial in respect of all incidents up to the year end.
Provision is made on recognition of financial investments is on the trade date.
the basis of available information for the estimated ultimate cost, The Groups policy is to measure investments at FVTPL except in including claims settlement expenses, of claims reported but not yet the US where the related liability is valued on a passive basis not using current information, in which case investments are classied settled and claims incurred but not yet reported.
An unexpired risk provision is made for any overall excess of expected claims and as AFS.
All derivatives other than those designated as hedges are classied as HFT.
deferred acquisition costs over unearned premiums and after taking Certain financial investments held by the Group are designated account of investment return.
as FVTPL as their performance is evaluated on a total return basis, Liability adequacy tests consistent with asset performance reporting to the Board of The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance Directors and the Groups investment strategy.
Assets designated liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of liabilities less related as FVTPL include debt securities and equity instruments which would deferred acquisition costs is sufficient to cover current estimates otherwise have been classied as AFS under IAS 39, Financial of future cash ows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Assets backing the Group discounts all contractual cash ows and compares this participating and non-participating policyholder liabilities outside amount with the carrying value of the liability.
Any deficiency is the US are designated as FVTPL.
For participating contracts the immediately charged to the income statement and the carrying assets are managed on a fair value basis to maximise the total value of the liability is adjusted accordingly.
return to policyholders over the contract life.
The Groups nonparticipating contract liabilities outside of the US are measured Reinsurance on the basis of current information and are designated as FVTPL The Groups insurance subsidiaries cede insurance premiums and to avoid an accounting mismatch in the income statement.
risk in the normal course of business in order to limit the potential The fair values of quoted financial investments are based on current for losses and to provide nancing.
Outwards reinsurance premiums bid prices.
If the market for a financial investment is not active, the are accounted for in the same accounting period as the related Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques such as premiums for the direct or inwards reinsurance business being recent arms length transactions, reference to similar listed investments, reinsured.
Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurers discounted cash ow models or option pricing models.
Venture capital for paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, ceded investments are valued in accordance with the International Private unearned premiums and ceded future life policy benets.
Amounts Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines, which represent recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent current best practice, developed by the Association Franais des with the claim liability associated with the reinsured policy.
Investisseurs en Capital, the British Venture Capital Association and the Reinsurance is recorded as an asset in the consolidated balance European Private Equity and Venture Capital Association.
The policies sheet unless a right of offset exists, in which case the associated used for determining fair value include earnings multiples, the price liabilities are reduced commensurately.
of a recent investment or a net asset basis.
Intangible assets Financial investments classied as HFT and FVTPL are measured at fair value with gains and losses reected in the income statement.
Goodwill Financial investments classied as AFS are measured at fair value Goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries prior to 1998 has been with unrealised gains and losses recognised in a separate reserve charged directly to reserves.
On disposal, goodwill held in reserves within equity.
Realised gains and losses, impairment losses, dividends, is transferred directly to retained earnings.
From 1998 the Groups interest and foreign exchange movements on non-equity instruments policy is to recognise goodwill on the balance sheet as an are reected in the income statement.
intangible asset, measured at cost less any accumulated Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using impairment losses.
the effective interest rate method.
Purchased interest in long term businesses Plant and equipment A portfolio of in-force contracts acquired either directly or through The initial cost of an item of plant or equipment is capitalised where the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking is capitalised at an it is probable that future economic benets associated with the item actuarially determined fair value.
The value of business acquired will ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured represents the present value of future profits embedded in reliably.
The cost is then depreciated on a straight line basis over the acquired insurance contracts.
These amounts are amortised items estimated useful working life.
No residual values are imputed over the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
to any item of plant and equipment.
Investments Impairment policy Investment property The Group reviews the carrying value of its assets other than those Investment property comprises land and buildings which are held at FVTPL at each balance sheet date.
If the carrying value of held for long term rental yields and capital growth.
It is carried a financial asset is impaired, the carrying value is reduced through at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income a charge to the income statement.
There must be objective evidence statement within investment return.
Investment property in the UK is of impairment as a result of one or more events which have occurred valued bi-annually by external chartered surveyors at open market after the initial recognition of the asset.
Impairment is only recognised values in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual of if the loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash ows The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Outside the UK, valuations of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be are produced in conjunction with external qualied professional reliably estimated.
com 61 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
The difference between the proceeds and the 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the Non-financial assets which have an indefinite useful life are not borrowing period using the effective interest method.
subjected to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
For a convertible bond which includes a cash settlement option Assets which are subject to amortisation are reviewed for in lieu of the issue of shares on conversion, the conversion option impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate is separated and recognised as a derivative liability.
It is revalued that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The recoverable to fair value at each reporting period with fair value gains and amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and losses taken through the income statement.
The remainder of the value in use.
proceeds less attributable expenses is allocated to the value of the debt portion of the convertible bond.
This amount is recorded as a Cash and cash equivalents liability on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest rate Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held until extinguished on conversion or on maturity of the bond.
at call with banks, treasury bills and other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Income taxes Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Income tax The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses recognised in the income statement except where it relates to derivatives such as foreign exchange forward contracts and interest an item which is recognised in equity.
rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
The Group uses Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit hedge accounting, provided the prescribed criteria in IAS 39 are for the period and any adjustment to the tax payable in respect met, to recognise the offsetting effects of changes in the fair value of previous periods.
or cash ow of the derivative instrument and the hedged item.
The total income tax expense for the period includes tax which The Groups principal uses of hedge accounting are to: is not related to profits earned by equity holders for the period, i recognise in shareholders equity the changes in the fair being the income tax paid by the Group in respect of UK life value of derivatives designated as hedges of a net investment policyholder returns.
The income statement income tax charge has in a foreign operation.
Any cumulative gains and or losses therefore been apportioned between the element attributable to are recognised in the income statement on disposal of the policyholder returns and the element attributable to equity holders foreign operation: profits equity holder tax.
ii defer in equity the changes in the fair value of derivatives For short term business all income tax is classied as equity designated as the hedge of a future cash ow attributable holder tax.
to a recognised asset or liability, a highly probable forecast The element of the net equity holders profit from UK long term transaction, or a rm commitment until the period in which business represented by the transfer from Societys LTF other than the future transaction is recognised or is no longer expected investment return on equity holders funds within the LTF has borne to occur: and tax at the effective equity holder tax rate, which is sufciently close iii hedge the fair value movements in loans due to interest to the standard rate of UK corporation tax for that to be used rate and exchange rate uctuations.
Any gain or loss from in the financial statements.
The element represented by the net remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised capital released into, or deducted from, profit from non profit immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the business is deemed to have borne tax at the standard rate of UK hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted corporation tax, although no tax in respect of this is included in the against the carrying amount of the hedged item and total income tax in the income statement.
The balance of income recognised in the income statement.
taxes associated with long term business profits is then classied The relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged as income tax attributable to policyholder returns.
item, together with the risk management objective and strategy There is no denitive method of calculating the effective equity for undertaking the hedge transaction, are documented at the holder tax rate.
A number of alternative methods are consistently inception of the transaction.
The effectiveness of the hedge is used, in order to assess the validity of using the standard rate of UK documented and monitored on an ongoing basis.
For equity holders funds within Societys LTF, the equity holder accounting is only applied for highly effective hedges between income tax represents the actual income tax on the return on those 80% and 125% effectiveness with any ineffective portion of the funds.
For international long term business the equity holder income gain or loss recognised in the income statement, within other tax is the total income tax in respect of profits earned from expenses, in the current period.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments Deferred income tax which do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet immediately in the income statement.
liability method, on temporary differences between the carrying Where the risks and characteristics of derivatives embedded in amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and other contracts are not closely related to those of the host contract the amounts used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax is measured using and the whole contract is not carried at fair value, the derivative is tax rates expected to apply when the related deferred income tax separated from that host contract and measured at fair value, with asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled, based fair value movements reected within investment return.
on tax rates and law which have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Borrowings, including convertible bond Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction probable that future taxable profit will be available against which costs.
Borrowings classied as liabilities are subsequently stated at the temporary differences can be utilised.
62 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Share capital and treasury shares 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Equity instruments Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
An equity instrument is any contract which evidences a residual Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising interest in the net assets of an entity.
It follows that a financial on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the instrument is treated as equity if: Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities the foreseeable future or if it will, then it will not generate any on unfavourable terms: and incremental tax liability for the Group.
the instrument is either a non-derivative which contains no No deferred tax is provided at the incremental rate on the contractual obligation to deliver a variable number of shares, undeclared surplus in Societys LTF represented by the Shareholder or is a derivative which will be settled only by the Group Retained Capital SRC on the grounds that, at the balance sheet exchanging a xed amount of cash or other financial assets, date, no obligation to make a declaration of surplus exists and for a xed number of its own equity instruments.
there is no expectation that such a declaration will occur.
Share issue costs Leases Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares Where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
is retained by the lessor, leases are classied as operating leases.
Payments made as lessees under operating leases net of any An incremental share issue cost is one which would not have arisen if shares had not been issued.
incentives from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Treasury shares Employee benets Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including Pension obligations any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, The Group operates a number of dened benefit and dened is deducted from equity attributable to shareholders.
Where such contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
The assets shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, of all UK dened benefit schemes are held in separate trustee any consideration received is included in equity attributable to administered funds which are subject to regular actuarial valuation shareholders, net of any directly attributable incremental every three years, updated by formal reviews at reporting dates.
transaction costs and the related income tax effects.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of dened benefit pension schemes is the present value of the dened benefit Dividend recognition obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan A dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised assets.
The dened benefit obligation is actuarially calculated each as a liability in the period in which the dividends are authorised and year using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Final dividends are the dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the accrued when approved by the Companys shareholders at the estimated future cash outows.
The discount rate is based on market general meeting and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
yields of high quality corporate bonds which are denominated in the Fiduciary activities currency in which the benets will be paid, and that have terms to Assets and income arising from duciary activities, together with maturity which approximate to those of the related pension liability.
associated commitments to return such assets to customers, are Where the unallocated divisible surplus or equity holders funds not included in these financial statements.
Where the Group acts are affected as a result of actuarial gains and losses on the dened in a duciary capacity, for instance as a trustee or agent, it has benefit pension scheme, the charge is not recognised in the income no contractual rights over the assets concerned.
statement but through the statement of recognised income and expense SORIE.
Provisions The Group pays contractual contributions in respect of dened Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or contribution schemes.
The contributions are recognised as employee constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable benefit expenses when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are that an outow of resources embodying economic benets will recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the reduction in future payments is available.
amount of the obligation can be made.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes.
contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset The fair value at the date of grant of the equity instrument is but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The Group recognised as an expense, spread over the vesting period of the recognises a provision for onerous contracts when the expected instrument.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by benets to be derived from a contract are less than the unavoidable reference to the fair value of the awards, excluding the impact costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
of any non-market vesting conditions.
At each balance sheet date, Foreign currency translation the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments which are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the Foreign currency transactions impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional statement, and a corresponding adjustment is made to equity over currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the the remaining vesting period.
On vesting or exercise, the difference transactions.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign between the expense charged to the income statement and the operations is the currency of the primary economic environment actual cost to the Group is transferred to retained earnings.
Where in which these entities operate.
Foreign exchange gains and losses new shares are issued, the proceeds received are credited to share are recognised in the income statement, except when recognised capital and share premium.
in equity as qualifying cash ow or net investment hedges.
com 63 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued that are not yet effective Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing Overseas subsidiaries standards have been published which are mandatory for the The assets and liabilities of all of the Groups foreign operations are Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007 translated into sterling, the Groups presentational currency, at the or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted, closing rate at the date of the balance sheet.
The income and as follows: expenses for each income statement are translated at average IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures and a complementary exchange rates.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial instruments from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and capital disclosures effective from 1 January 2007.
IFRS 7 of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges introduces new financial instrument disclosures.
It requires the of such investments, are taken to a separate component of disclosure of qualitative and quantitative information about shareholders equity.
exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, including Investment return specified minimum disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk, The reporting of investment return comprises investment income, market risk and sensitivity to market risk.
It replaces the unrealised gains and losses from financial investments held at FVTPL disclosure requirements in IAS 32.
The amendment to IAS 1 and realised gains and losses from all financial assets.
introduces disclosures about the level of an entitys capital Investment income includes dividends, interest and rent.
Dividends and how it manages capital.
The Group has assessed the are accrued on an ex-dividend basis.
Interest and rent are included impact of IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 and believes on an accruals basis.
Interest income for financial assets which are not that the main additional disclosures will be the inclusion of classied as FVTPL is recognised using the effective interest method.
quantitative financial risk disclosures based on information used by management to manage the Groups financial risk.
Operational income and expenses IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective from 1 January 2009.
Operational income comprises fee income from estate agency IFRS 8 introduces a new conceptual requirement that operations, agency fee income relating to distribution services reportable segments should be formed on the same basis and any margin paid on written business acquired in a period.
as is used internally by senior management for evaluating Operational income is accounted for when due.
The Group intends to Other expenses comprise primarily the expenses incurred in carry out an impact assessment on the implementation of estate agency operations, institutional fund management and retail this standard in 2007. investment business, together with unallocated corporate expenses.
IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives effective Other costs are accounted for as they arise.
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006.
Under Earnings per share normal circumstances, IFRIC 9 prohibits the subsequent reassessment of contracts for the existence and separation Earnings per share of embedded derivatives once an initial assessment has been Earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income attributable carried out.
However, where a change in the terms of a to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of previously assessed contract has occurred and this leads ordinary shares in issue during the year.
For this purpose, net income is to a significant modication to the cash ows which would dened as the profit after tax derived from continuing operations, or otherwise be required under the contract, reassessment is as the profit after tax derived from both continuing and discontinued mandatory.
The Group will apply IFRIC 9 from 1 January 2007, operations.
In both instances, net income is adjusted for distributions but it is not expected to have any significant impact on the made on any debt classied as equity.
Diluted earnings per share IFRIC 10, Interim Reporting and Impairment effective for For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006. of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of IFRIC 10 prohibits the reversal of impairment losses recognised all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as convertible debt and in an interim period for instance, on goodwill, investments in share options granted to employees.
Potential or contingent share equity instruments held as AFS and investments in financial issuances are treated as dilutive when their conversion to shares assets carried at cost at a subsequent balance sheet date.
would decrease net earnings per share.
The Group will apply IFRIC 10 from 1 January 2007.
The anticipated impact is expected to be immaterial based on Segment reporting past impairment experience, although, the actual impact The Groups segments are based on the dominant source and will be contingent on future impairment events.
nature of the Groups risks and returns and the manner in which the IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions Groups internal organisational and management structure operates claries the appropriate accounting treatment for share-based and reects its system of internal financial reporting to the Group payments in single entity financial statements.
The interpretation Board and Group Chief Executive.
is therefore not applicable to the Group financial statements.
Institutional fund management services are provided to IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements, has been issued Legal & General Assurance Society an element of the life and pensions to address the accounting by operators for public-to-private segment on a cost basis.
The remaining transactions between the service concession arrangements.
The interpretation applies business segments are on normal commercial terms and conditions.
only to public-to-private sector concessions and therefore has The primary segmental information is presented for business no impact on the Group financial statements.
segments as this reects the dominant source and nature of the Groups risks and returns.
Secondary information is presented on geographic segments.
64 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The change to the reserving framework has also resulted in a 2.
IMPACT OF SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AND CHANGES IN 2006 consequent small reduction in the long term insurance capital Corporate restructure requirement.
The associated financial reinsurance previously in On 31 December 2006, the non-linked non profit pensions and place to finance these reserves was terminated and no credit annuity business of Society was ceded to a new, wholly owned, has been taken for implicit items in the regulatory balance sheet, reinsurance company, Legal & General Pensions Limited LGP.
of which approximately 240m related term assurance.
The net LGP has been capitalised using 1.3bn of Society shareholder impact on Societys regulatory capital surplus of the changes capital, 400m of this is represented by subordinated debt 200m to reserving has been an increase of approximately 125m.
upper tier II, 200m lower tier II and 900m by equity.
The reinsurance In addition, the FSA removed the requirement for Society was effected on arms length terms resulting in an initial regulatory to calculate a resilience capital requirement and changed loss in LGP.
Further funds of 571m have been injected from Societys the calculation of the With-profits Insurance Capital Component LTF into LGPs LTF by means of a contingent loan to cover this loss.
which has resulted in a decrease in Societys capital resources Prior to the capitalisation of LGP, the intra-group subordinated requirement of 432m.
debt capital of 602m attributed to SRC was repaid to Group Plc Review of annuity investment policy and an equivalent amount was lent to Society shareholder capital During 2006, Society undertook a review of its asset liability on a subordinated basis 301m upper tier II, 301m lower tier II.
matching policy for annuity business.
Property assets backing The corporate restructuring has had no impact on the IFRS profit annuity liabilities were replaced with corporate bonds and Society before tax for the year.
The movement in liabilities and assets entered into ination swaps to mitigate negative ination risk see between Society and LGP is eliminated in the Group consolidation Note 21.
As a result, a closer match between assets and liabilities in accordance with the Group accounting policies.
Additionally, the margin within the reserves to cover there is a 171m deferred tax benefit for 2006, which increases an interest rate mismatch was reviewed and reduced.
These actions the IFRS profit after tax see Note 13.
This is the result of an initial reduced the regulatory reserves for Society, and increased the IFRS tax loss in LGP.
The corporate restructuring has reduced Societys regulatory surplus capital by 0.5bn 2006 total surplus: 4.9bn and the Insurance Tax effects Groups Directive IGD regulatory surplus by 0.5bn 2006 total In accordance with the Groups policy for attributing tax to equity surplus: 2.1bn, primarily due to the requirement to hold solvency holders and policyholders, the IFRS profit before equity holder tax margins in both Society and LGP for the reinsured business.
These from the net capital released from UK non profit business is determined amounts are extracted from draft regulatory returns.
by grossing up after tax amounts at the standard rate of UK corporation tax 30%.
In 2006, there was no current or deferred Implementation of changes to FSA reporting and capital rules tax charge on these profits.
Policy Statement 06 14 In 2006, the FSA introduced a more realistic reserving framework for certain non profit business.
As a result, the Group changed its insurance assumptions as detailed in Note 37.
This lead to a reduction in the non-participating insurance contract liabilities and regulatory reserves required for term assurance business of 641m, and an elimination of the deferred acquisition cost asset relating to term assurance business amounting 145m see Note 24 ii, resulting in an increase to IFRS profit after tax of 496m.
com 65 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
OPERATING PROFIT INFORMATION This supplementary information provides further analysis of the results reported under IFRS and we believe gives shareholders a better understanding of the underlying performance of the business.
For UK life and pensions business, operating profit represents: the distribution of profit relating to non profit and shareholder net worth, grossed up for tax.
The current distribution comprises: 7% of the embedded value of the SRC and Sub-fund shareholder net worth SNW adjusted to remove the impact from the contingent loan between SRC and LGP, and the SNW of LGP: and 5% of the embedded value of the non profit business adjusted to remove the impact from the contingent loan between SRC and LGP: the subordinated debt interest on the intra-group subordinated debt included within the SRC, until it was repaid in December 2006: the shareholders share of the with-profits surplus recognised in the year, grossed up for tax.
An analysis of the distribution of profit relating to non profit and shareholder net worth is included in Note 3 iv.
Operating profit includes a longer term investment return on shareholders, General insurances and Netherlands funds held outside a LTF.
It excludes investment variances and the contribution from UK non profit business.
The income statement comprises returns to shareholders and excludes policyholders returns.
i Reconciliation between operating profit and profit from ordinary activities after income tax 2006 2005 Notes m m From continuing operations Life and pensions ii 592 489 Investment management v 133 103 General insurance vi 9 14 Other operational income vii 18 41 Operating profit 752 647 Investment return on SRC iii 303 387 Net capital released from non profit business iii 1,255 478 Distribution of operating profit from non profit business iii 422 349 1,888 1,163 Variation from longer term investment return 63 139 Property income attributable to minority interests 67 81 profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to equity holders 2,018 1,383 Tax attributable to equity holders 387 371 profit from continuing operations after tax 1,631 1,012 profit from discontinued operations 13 profit from ordinary activities after tax 1,631 1,025 ii Life and pensions operating profit 2006 2005 Notes m m Distribution relating to non profit and shareholder net worth iv 388 312 Subordinated debt interest 34 37 Non profit business 422 349 With-profits business 95 66 UK 517 415 USA 58 52 Netherlands 7 18 France 10 4 592 489 66 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 3.
OPERATING PROFIT INFORMATION continued iii Contribution from UK non profit business 2006 2005 m m Investment income 75 67 Interest expense and charges 3 3 Realised investment gains 215 191 Unrealised investment gains 16 132 Investment return on SRC 303 387 1 Net capital released from non profit business 1,255 478 Distribution of operating profit from non profit business 422 349 Contribution from UK non profit business before tax 1,136 516 1.
The net capital released from non profit business for 2006 has been impacted by the matters discussed in Note 2. iv Distributions to shareholders from Societys LTF The transfer to shareholders from Societys LTF is limited by a formula agreed with our regulator.
The formula is the aggregate of the shareholders share of the with-profits surplus, a smoothed investment return of 7% on the embedded value of the SRC and Sub-fund and 5% on the embedded value of the non profit business of Society and LGP, adjusted to remove the impact from the contingent loan between SRC and LGP, and the SNW of LGP.
2006 2006 2005 2005 Non profit SNW Non profit SNW m m m m Embedded value at end of year 1,643 3,828 2,387 1,762 Less: subordinated debt 602 Less: LGP shareholders fund 1,280 Contingent loan 571 571 Add back: pension deficit attributable to SNW 5 60 51 Add back: distributions 272 219 2,209 2,309 2,387 1,430 Distribution formula full year 5.0% 7.0% 5.0% 7.0% Distribution after tax 110 162 119 100 Tax gross up at 30% 47 69 51 42 Distribution before tax 157 231 170 142 v Investment management operating profit 2006 2005 m m Managed pension funds 96 74 Ventures 4 4 Property 6 4 Retail investments 11 7 Other external income 6 5 Other income 10 9 133 103 www.
com 67 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
OPERATING PROFIT INFORMATION continued vi General insurance operating profit, underwriting result and combined operating ratios Operating UnderCombined UnderCombined profit writing operating Operating writing operating loss result ratio profit result ratio 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 m m % m m % From continuing operations Household 9 21 111 7 6 101 Other business 18 13 89 7 1 101 9 8 105 14 5 101 The combined operating ratio is: Net incurred claims Expenses Net commission x 100 Net earned premiums Net written premiums vii Other operational income 2006 2005 m m Shareholders other income Investment return on ordinary shareholders equity 139 127 Interest expense 106 75 33 52 1 Other operations 2 5 Unallocated corporate and development expenses 13 6 18 41 1.
Principally the Regulated mortgage network and Cofunds.
viii Earnings per share Earnings profit Tax profit Number per 1 before tax charge after tax of shares share 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 Notes m m m m p Operating profit from continuing operations i 752 212 540 6,483 8.33 Variation from longer term investment return i 63 11 52 0.80 Contribution from UK non profit business iii 1,136 164 972 14.99 profit from discontinued operations Distributions on subordinated borrowings designated as equity 2 profit attributable to ordinary equity holders EPS 1,951 387 1,564 6,483 24.12 Tax profit Earnings profit charge loss Number per 1 before tax credit after tax of shares share 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 Notes m m m m p Operating profit from continuing operations i 647 191 456 6,474 7.04 Variation from longer term investment return i 139 32 107 1.66 Contribution from UK non profit business iii 516 148 368 5.68 profit from discontinued operations 12 1 13 0.20 Distributions on subordinated borrowings designated as equity 16 0.25 2 profit attributable to ordinary equity holders EPS 1,314 370 928 6,474 14.33 The number of shares in issue at 31 December 2006 was 6,532,261,961 2005: 6,507,421,932.
Weighted average number of shares.
68 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 3.
OPERATING PROFIT INFORMATION continued ix Group cash ow statement The table below shows the cash ows in the year relating to the Groups parent company.
2006 2005 m m Dividends received: UK life and pensions 380 533 General insurance 105 Investment management 50 69 Other 3 2 433 709 Dividend distributions to ordinary equity holders of the Company during the year Note 15 349 331 Distributions during the year on subordinated borrowings designated as equity Note 15 16 Proceeds from issue of equity 15 1 Proceeds from issue of subordinated borrowings 397 Repayment of convertible bond 525 Working capital movements 52 136 Net cash outow inow 478 624 4.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS The Group is organised into three main business segments: Long term business includes insurance and investment business Investment management General insurance Other operations comprise Shareholders assets, Estate agencies, Regulated mortgage network and Corporate expenses, none of which constitute a separately reportable segment.
i Income statement analysed by business segments primary disclosures Elimination of inter Long term Investment General Other segment 1 business management insurance operations amounts Total For the year ended 31 December 2006 m m m m m m Total revenue from continuing operations 8,355 12,013 315 526 243 20,966 Total expenses from continuing operations 6,802 11,849 314 315 243 19,037 profit from continuing operations after income tax 1,344 93 1 193 1,631 profit from discontinued operations Note 14 Inter segment revenue 26 40 2 175 243 Elimination of inter Long term Investment General Other segment business management insurance operations accounts Total For the year ended 31 December 2005 m m m m m m Total revenue from continuing operations 11,512 18,833 328 559 243 30,989 Total expenses from continuing operations 10,373 18,724 311 235 243 29,400 profit from continuing operations after income tax 650 71 13 278 1,012 profit from discontinued operations Note 14 13 13 Inter segment revenue 59 2 182 243 1.
The long term business segment for 2006 has been impacted by the matters discussed in Note 2. www.
com 69 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued ii Balance sheet analysed by business segments primary disclosures Elimination of inter Long term Investment General Other segment business management insurance operations amounts Total As at 31 December 2006 m m m m m m Total assets 69,729 144,725 534 4,519 1,642 217,865 Total liabilities 66,053 144,000 365 3,250 1,642 212,026 Total equity 3,676 725 169 1,269 5,839 Elimination of inter Long term Investment General Other segment business management insurance operations amounts Total As at 31 December 2005 m m m m m m Total assets 65,146 123,304 516 4,676 1,777 191,865 Total liabilities 62,901 122,622 351 2,832 1,777 186,929 Total equity 2,245 682 165 1,844 4,936 iii Revenue and assets by geographic segments secondary disclosures Elimination of inter segment UK USA Netherlands France amounts Total 31 December 2006 m m m m m m Total revenue from continuing operations 20,020 329 300 319 2 20,966 Total assets 212,185 2,478 1,415 1,807 20 217,865 Elimination of inter segment UK USA Netherlands France amounts Total 31 December 2005 m m m m m m Total revenue from continuing operations 29,918 321 362 388 30,989 Total assets 186,936 2,016 1,269 1,663 19 191,865 iv Gross written premiums 2006 2005 m m From continuing operations UK life and pensions participating business 376 485 UK life and pensions non-participating business 2,691 2,428 Total UK life and pensions 3,067 2,913 USA 347 329 Netherlands 266 243 France 283 265 Total life and pensions 3,963 3,750 General insurance Household 240 234 Other business 83 100 Total General insurance 323 334 Total gross written premiums 4,286 4,084 Life and pensions gross written premiums by destination are not materially different from gross premiums written by origin.
The General insurance premiums arise wholly in the UK.
70 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5.
NEW BUSINESS GROSS OF REINSURANCE New business is presented below for all long term business written by the Group including both insurance and investment contracts.
New annual premiums arise where the terms and conditions of a policy anticipate more than one premium being paid over its lifetime: new single premiums comprise all premiums which are not categorised as new annual premiums.
Annual Single Annual Single 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m UK life and pensions Protection 231 208 Annuities 1,735 1,539 Savings Unit linked bonds 2,612 2,082 1 Pensions, stakeholder and other non profit 126 817 97 549 With-profits 117 827 77 729 UK life and pensions 474 5,991 382 4,899 USA 42 42 Netherlands 12 170 13 158 France 12 195 17 191 540 6,356 454 5,248 Investment management Retail investments ISAs UK 18 498 14 422 Unit trusts UK 2 5,945 1 2,577 France 25 25 Institutional fund management 2 UK managed pension funds Pooled funds 17,878 14,778 Segregated funds 608 240 18,486 15,018 Limited partnerships 99 87 Other funds 2,065 2,029 20 27,118 15 20,158 Total new business 560 33,474 469 25,406 Annual Single Annual Single 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Comprising: Insurance contracts Life and pensions Participating 7 608 5 711 Non-participating 296 1,493 263 1,263 Investment contracts Life and pensions Participating 6 286 21 258 Non-participating 231 3,969 165 3,016 Investment management 20 27,118 15 20,158 Total new business 560 33,474 469 25,406 1.
Includes the recategorisation of 18m APE 3m annual premiums and 149m single premiums previously reported in with-profits individual pensions in the 2006 full year new business results Stock Exchange Release announcement on 25 January 2007.
Excludes 4.4bn 2005: 4.1bn which is held on a temporary basis, generally as part of a portfolio reconstruction.
The UK pooled managed funds of 17.9bn 2005: 14.8bn reported above are classied as fund management contracts.
The increase in the fair value of the investment contract liabilities is shown in the income statement.
There are two classes of business where there is a material difference between gross and net of reinsurance new business: term assurance, which is 51.9% 2005: 57.5% reinsured, and permanent health insurance, which is 24.5% 2005: 22.6% reinsured.
com 71 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
INVESTMENT RETURN 2006 2005 m m Financial investment return 15,610 26,093 Property investment return 962 838 Investment return 16,572 26,931 Included within financial investment return is interest income on AFS investments of 74m 2005: 23m.
Net gains of 15,529m 2005: 26,018m arose on financial investments designated as FVTPL.
Financial investment return includes dividends, interest received and fair value gains and losses, excluding fair value movements attributable to AFS investments.
Property investment return includes 345m 2005: 325m of rental income.
NET CLAIMS AND CHANGE IN INSURANCE LIABILITIES Long term General Long term General insurance insurance Total insurance insurance Total 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 From continuing operations m m m m m m Claims paid gross 3,603 206 3,809 3,064 198 3,262 reinsurance recoveries 254 4 258 234 6 240 3,349 202 3,551 2,830 192 3,022 Change in insurance liabilities gross 1,866 5 1,871 3,094 11 3,105 reinsurance recoveries 1,381 1,381 258 1 259 Net claims and change in insurance liabilities 2,864 197 3,061 6,182 204 6,386 The change in insurance liabilities includes the financial effect of PS06 14 which is described in Notes 2 and 37.
OTHER EXPENSES On 27 May 2005, the Financial Services and Markets Tribunal the Tribunal delivered a further decision in the case between Society and the Financial Services Authority FSA.
The decision built on the provisional view announced in January 2005 that there should be a reduction in the penalty imposed by the FSA on Society for the charge of endowment mis-selling.
The FSA had imposed a penalty of 1.1m.
The Tribunal reduced this to 575,000.
There are no amounts occurring in 2006 of a similar nature.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION 2006 2005 m m Remuneration receivable by the Companys auditors for the audit of the consolidated and Company financial statements 1.0 0.9 Remuneration receivable by the Companys auditors and its associates for the supply of other services to the Company and its associates, including remuneration for the audit of the financial statements of the Companys subsidiaries comprises: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries, supplied under legislation 1.4 1.1 2.4 2.0 Other services supplied under legislation 0.5 0.5 Tax services 0.8 0.3 Services relating to corporate finance transactions completed or proposed 0.1 1 Other services 1.3 0.6 Auditors remuneration 5.1 3.4 1.
For 2006, Other services include 0.6m 2005: nil in respect of accounting and regulatory advice, project management services and assurance procedures for Groups capital review.
The 2005 auditors remuneration is presented on a comparable basis following changes in the legislation applicable to auditors remuneration disclosures.
In addition to the above, fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for audit services supplied to the Companys associated pension scheme amounted to 0.1m 2005: 0.1m.
72 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 10.
EMPLOYEE INFORMATION 2006 2005 m m Average number of staff employed during the year: UK 9,051 8,644 Europe 332 317 USA 359 312 Worldwide employees 9,742 9,273 2006 2005 m m Salaries 303 283 Social security costs 38 34 Share-based incentive awards 15 13 Dened benefit pension costs Note 40 41 33 Dened contribution pension costs Note 40 17 16 414 379 11.
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX 2006 2005 m m The following items have been included in arriving at profit before tax: Depreciation on plant and equipment Note 18 15 14 Amortisation of purchased interest in long term businesses Note 23 7 4 Operating lease rentals 19 17 Reinsurance commissions 15 15 Direct operating expenses arising from investment properties which generate rental income 25 28 Direct operating expenses arising from investment properties which do not generate rental income 1 1 During the year, the Group entered into reinsurance arrangements which resulted in a profit of 192m 2005: 324m.
This profit has been reected in the consolidated income statement for the year.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND EXCHANGE RATES profit for the year includes foreign exchange gains and losses on financial instruments designated as FVTPL.
The profit for the year also includes foreign exchange gains of 243m 2005: 64m arising on conversion to sterling of other assets and liabilities.
com 73 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE 2006 2005 m m Current tax Current tax for the year 280 350 Adjustments in respect of prior years 21 8 Total current tax 301 358 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 3 219 Total income tax expense 298 577 Represented by: Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 89 206 Income tax attributable to equity holders 387 371 Total income tax expense 298 577 The tax assessed for the year is lower 2005: higher than the standard corporation tax rate applicable to companies operating in the UK of 30% 2005: 30%.
The differences are explained below: 2006 2005 m m Income tax calculated at standard UK corporation tax rate 579 477 Effects of: Income tax relating to policyholder returns 62 144 Disallowable expenditure 3 Non taxable income including UK dividends 11 8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 10 1 Differences between taxable and accounting investment gains losses 13 8 Unrelieved tax losses 1 Overseas tax 4 3 No tax in respect of property income attributable to minority interests 20 24 Lower tax on SRC investment return 15 8 Difference between tax relief and accounting expense for share releases and option exercises 6 Difference between tax and accounting losses Note 2 171 Other 1 Total income tax expense 298 577 The rate of tax for the year reects the impact of the net capital released from non profit business into profit of 1,380m 2005: 335m on which no current or deferred tax arose.
The effect of this is within the reconciling item Income tax relating to policyholder returns.
2006 2005 m m Deferred tax recognised directly in equity Relating to net gains or losses recognised directly in equity 4 32 Exchange losses gains 21 15 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 17 17 No deferred tax is provided at the incremental rate on the undeclared surplus in the Society LTF represented by the SRC, on the grounds that, at the balance sheet date, no obligation to make a declaration of surplus actually exists and there is no expectation that such a declaration will occur.
The maximum amount of incremental tax which would crystallise on such a declaration of surplus is estimated to be 717m 2005: 509m.
74 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 14.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Gresham Insurance Company Limited On 31 March 2005, the Group sold its 90% stake in its subsidiary Gresham to Barclays Bank PLC for a consideration of 85m, of which 4m was paid in dividends by Gresham and the remainder in cash by Barclays.
The transaction resulted in an exceptional profit before tax of 15m 15m after tax.
2006 2005 m m Revenues 35 Expenses 38 Loss before tax 3 Gain on disposal of Gresham 15 Income tax attributable to equity holders 1 profit from discontinued operations after income tax 13 The fair value of assets disposed and consideration received were as follows: 2006 2005 m m Financial investments 108 Other assets 78 Cash and cash equivalents 8 Insurance contract liabilities 118 Other liabilities 10 Fair value of net assets disposed 66 Total cash consideration received 81 Less cash and cash equivalents in Gresham 8 Net proceeds from disposal of Gresham 73 2006 2005 m m Net cash ows of Gresham attributable to: Operating activities 6 Investing activities 8 2 Venture capital subsidiaries During December 2004, the Group committed to reduce its investment in venture capital subsidiaries.
These investments ceased to be subsidiaries of the Group in the first half of 2005.
The continuing interests of the Group in these subsidiaries are now accounted for as investments.
Of the total consideration of 33m due from the sale, 23m was received in 2005 and the final instalment of 10m was received in 2006.
There was no gain or loss on the disposal of these investments.
DIVIDENDS AND OTHER DISTRIBUTIONS Per share Per share Total Total 2006 2005 2006 2005 p p m m Ordinary share dividends paid in the year Prior year final dividend 3.63 3.45 236 224 Current year interim dividend 1.74 1.65 113 107 5.37 5.10 349 331 Distributions paid on subordinated borrowings designated as equity 16 349 347 1 Ordinary share dividend proposed 3.81 3.63 248 236 1.
The dividend proposed has not been included as a liability in the balance sheet.
com 75 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share have been calculated using the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and the profits for the financial year.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average numbers of shares used in the calculations are set out below: i Based on profit from continuing operations after income tax attributable to ordinary equity holders Number Earnings Number Earnings 1 1 profit of shares per share profit of shares per share 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 m m p m m p profit attributable to equity holders 1,564 944 Less: Distributions on subordinated debt designated as equity 16 profit from discontinued operations 13 profit from continuing operations after income tax attributable to ordinary equity holders 1,564 6,483 24.12 915 6,474 14.13 Net shares under options allocable for no further consideration 46 0.17 38 0.08 Convertible bonds outstanding 20 285 0.29 Diluted profit from continuing operations after income tax attributable to ordinary equity holders 1,564 6,529 23.95 935 6,797 13.76 ii Based on profit attributable to ordinary equity holders Number Earnings Number Earnings 1 1 profit of shares per share profit of shares per share 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 m m p m m p profit attributable to equity holders 1,564 944 Less: Distributions on subordinated debt designated as equity 16 profit attributable to ordinary equity holders 1,564 6,483 24.12 928 6,474 14.33 Net shares under options allocable for no further consideration 46 0.17 38 0.08 Convertible bonds outstanding 20 285 0.30 Diluted profit attributable to ordinary equity holders 1,564 6,529 23.95 948 6,797 13.95 iii Discontinued operations Earnings per share and diluted earnings per share for discontinued operations were nil 2005: 0.20p and nil 2005: 0.19p respectively.
Weighted average number of shares 17.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The fair values of the share grants made during the year have been calculated using the following assumptions: SAYE SAYE PSP Award date 13 Apr 06 25 Aug 06 24 Apr 06 Weighted average share price 141p 129p 139p Weighted average exercise price 117p 101p n a Expected volatility 25 35% 22 35% n a Expected life 3 7 years 3 7 years 3 years Risk free investment rate 4.6% 4.7 4.9% n a Dividend yield 4.2% 4.1% n a Expected volatility is a measure of the tendency of a security price to uctuate in a random, unpredictable manner.
Expected volatility is determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous ten years.
The expected life has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
76 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued The Group provides the following equity settled share-based long term incentive plans for directors and eligible employees: Savings related share option scheme SAYE The SAYE allows employees to enter into a regular savings contract over either three, five or seven years, coupled with a corresponding option over shares of the Group.
The grant price is equal to 80% of the quoted market price of the Group shares on the invitation date.
Options are normally forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price price Options 2006 Options 2005 2006 p 2005 p Outstanding at 1 January 46,596,785 63 47,968,315 63 Granted during the year 13,066,802 109 3,954,778 92 Forfeited during the year 749,812 81 1,052,309 61 Exercised during the year 19,515,404 57 1,281,821 81 Expired during the year 4,462,422 107 2,992,178 92 Outstanding at 31 December 34,935,949 77 46,596,785 63 Exercisable at 31 December 186,023 90 482,952 105 The fair values of the SAYE options granted during the year have been estimated using the Black-Scholes model.
The assumptions used in the model are shown on page 76.
The weighted average fair value of each SAYE option granted during the year was 35p 2005: 31p.
The Group recognised total expenses of 2m 2005: 2m related to the SAYE scheme.
The intrinsic value of vested SAYE options was nil 2005: nil at the year end.
Intrinsic value of a share option is calculated as the current share price less the option price.
Company share option scheme CSOP Executive share option scheme ESOS The CSOP, approved by HMRC, and unapproved ESOS were designed to provide a long term incentive to directors and managers of the Group.
The number of options granted is based on the managers level, salary and performance.
The options have a ten year life but do not normally vest in the first three years.
In order to exercise the options, the Legal & General Total Shareholder Return TSR must exceed the median TSR of the FTSE 100 for a period of at least three years commencing on the date of the grant.
Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price price Options 2006 Options 2005 2006 p 2005 p Outstanding at 1 January 54,394,602 131 55,122,387 131 Forfeited during the year 3,941,409 133 399,511 133 Exercised during the year 5,324,625 79 180,628 71 Expired during the year 3,776,552 153 147,646 155 Outstanding at 31 December 41,352,016 13654,394,602 131 Exercisable at 31 December 39,667,016 13838,145,502 153 The fair values of the options granted under the CSOP ESOS are estimated using a binomial model, reecting the historic exercise patterns.
The assumptions used in the model are disclosed on page 76.
No options were granted in 2006 or 2005 under these schemes.
The Group recognised total expenses of nil 2005: 1m related to the CSOP and ESOS.
The intrinsic value of vested share options at the year end was 8m 2005: nil.
Share bonus plan SBP SBP awards granted before 2005 gave the recipient the right to receive a xed number of shares three years after the grant date.
SBP grants from 2005 award restricted shares which vest with employees three years after the grant date.
From 2005 SBP grant recipients are entitled to both vote and receive dividends.
In both cases the rights associated with SBP grants are normally forfeited on leaving the Group.
The fair value of the shares awarded has been calculated as the market value on the grant date.
For pre-2005 awards, this has been adjusted by the estimated present value of future dividends to which the holder is not entitled.
During the year, 5,391,862 shares 2005: 6,080,335 shares were awarded under the SBP.
The weighted average fair value of the shares issued was 140p 2005: 113p.
The Group recognised a total expense of 5m 2005: 4m relating to the SBP.
com 77 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Performance share plan PSP Conditional shares can be granted to top managers under the PSP, based upon individual and Company performance.
Under the PSP, the number of performance shares transferred to the individual at the end of the three year vesting period is dependant on Legal & Generals TSR compared with that of the other FTSE 100 companies at the date of the award, measured over the vesting period.
The minimum number of performance shares is transferred if the TSR is at median.
The number increases proportionately to a maximum of four times the performance shares at or above 20th position.
The fair value of the granted performance shares has been calculated using a probabilistic model which incorporates the marketbased performance conditions within the scheme.
During the year, 2,311,828 performance shares 2005: 2,184,481 were awarded.
The weighted average fair value of each award issued was 279p 2005: 220p.
The Group recognised a total expense of 5m 2005: 3m relating to the PSP during the year.
Employee share plan ESP Under the ESP, approved by HMRC, permanent UK employees may elect to purchase Group shares from the market at the prevailing market price on a monthly basis.
The Group supplements the number of shares purchased by matching the first 20 of the employees contributions.
From time to time, the Group may make a grant of free shares.
Both the free and matching shares must be held in trust for three years before they may vest to the employee.
After vesting the shares remain within the trust until they are transferred to the employee or the employee leaves the Group.
The Trust is consolidated into the results of the Group with the unvested shares disclosed as treasury shares.
The fair value of the granted shares is equal to the market value at the grant date.
During the year, 4,086,631 shares 2005: 3,959,530 shares were granted under the ESP.
The weighted average fair value of the shares issued was 136p 2005: 113p.
The Group recognised a total expense of 3m 2005: 3m relating to the ESP during the year.
Total recognised expense The total recognised expense relating to share based payments in 2006 was 15m 2005: 13m, all of which related to equity settled share schemes.
PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 2006 2005 m m Cost Balance at 1 January 101 124 Additions 28 24 Disposals 25 47 Balance at 31 December 104 101 Depreciation Balance at 1 January 69 101 Provided during the year 15 14 Disposals 23 46 Balance at 31 December 61 69 Net book value at 31 December 43 32 19.
FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS Linked Other Total Linked Other Total 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 m m m m m m Financial investments at fair value designated as: Fair value through profit or loss 162,451 36,838 199,289 137,911 37,030 174,941 Available-for-sale 1,255 1,255 1,105 1,105 Held for trading 37 39 76 4 26 30 Financial investments at fair value i 162,488 38,132 200,620 137,915 38,161 176,076 Loans and receivables ii 567 243 810 331 215 546 Total financial investments 163,055 38,375 201,430 138,246 38,376 176,622 Expected to be settled within 12 months 24,373 20,915 Expected to be settled after 12 months 177,057 155,707 Investment risks on linked assets are borne by the policyholders.
Financial investments include 75m 2005: 63m of debt securities pledged as collateral against derivative liabilities.
The assets used as collateral are AAA rated Supranational Bonds 2005: UK gilts having a residual maturity of over 15 years 2005: 25 years.
The Group is entitled to receive all of the cash ows from the asset during the period when it is pledged as collateral.
Further, there is no obligation to pay or transfer these cash ows to another entity.
The Group can decide to substitute an asset which is designated as collateral at any time, provided the relevant terms and conditions of the International Swap Dealers Association ISDA agreement are met.
Financial investments have been allocated between those expected to be settled within 12 months and after 12 months in line with the expected settlement of the backed liabilities.
Assets in excess of the insurance and investment contract liabilities have been classied as expected to be settled after 12 months.
9m 2005: 4m has been recognised in the income statement in respect of the fair value losses on these investments.
Property investments which are held via partnerships or unit trust vehicles are also included within equity securities.
198m 2005: 162m has been recognised in the income statement in respect of the movement in fair value of these investments.
Included within linked equity securities are 308m 2005: 223m of debt instruments which incorporate an embedded derivative linked to the value of the Groups share price.
ii Loans and receivables Linked Other Total Linked Other Total 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 m m m m m m Deposits with credit institutions 567 178 745 331 143 474 Policy loans 6363 7171 Other loans 22 11 Total loans and receivables 567 243 810 331 215 546 There are no material differences between the carrying values reected above and the fair value of these loans.
com 79 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
DERIVATIVE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Contract notional Fair values 1 amount Assets Liabilities 2006 2006 2006 m m m Non-linked derivatives: Convertible debt derivative liability Interest rate contracts fair value hedges 411 17 Interest rate contracts cash ow hedges Interest rate contracts held for trading 2,029 30 112 Forward foreign exchange contracts net investment hedges 44612 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 40561 Equity index derivatives held for trading 142 2 2 Other derivatives held for trading 47 1 Total non-linked derivatives 40 132 Linked derivatives: 3 Ination swap contracts held for trading 2,574 2 8 Interest rate contracts held for trading 530 9 25 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 23 8 Equity index derivatives held for trading 35534 Total linked derivatives 37 45 Total derivative assets and liabilities 77 177 Contract notional Fair values 1 amount Assets Liabilities 2005 2005 2005 m m m Non-linked derivatives: Convertible debt derivative liability 525 3 Interest rate contracts fair value hedges 411 4 Interest rate contracts cash ow hedges 20 Interest rate contracts held for trading 981 6 92 Forward foreign exchange contracts net investment hedges 316 3 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 411 13 Equity index derivatives held for trading 99 3 Other derivatives held for trading 1 Total non-linked derivatives 26 98 Linked derivatives: Ination swap contracts held for trading Interest rate contracts held for trading 2 2 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 17 Equity index derivatives held for trading 71 2 1 Total linked derivatives 4 20 Total derivative assets and liabilities 30 118 1.
Derivative liabilities are reported in the balance sheet within other creditors.
Relates to currency swap contracts entered into in the year 2005: nil.
The ination rate swap contracts have been entered into as part of the change in the annuity investment strategy, as described in Note 2.
80 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21.
DERIVATIVE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued The notional amounts of some derivative instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance sheet.
However, these amounts do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash ows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
Net investment hedges forward foreign exchange contracts The Group hedges part of the foreign exchange translation exposure on its net investment in its overseas subsidiaries, using forward foreign exchange contracts.
It recognises the portion of the gain or loss which is determined to be an effective hedge through reserves within shareholders equity, along with the gain or loss on revaluation of the foreign subsidiaries.
Fair value hedges interest rate swap contracts The Group uses interest rate swap contracts to hedge xed rate loans in particular to hedge the movement in the fair value of a loan due to interest rates.
Cash ow hedges interest rate swap contracts The Group uses interest rate swap contracts to hedge the variability of future interest payments on certain oating rate financial instruments.
Hedge accounting defers the recognition of gains and losses on the hedging instrument until the cash ow being hedged appears in the income statement.
Derivative contracts held for trading The Group uses certain derivative contracts which are effective hedges of economic exposures but are not designated within a formal hedge accounting relationship.
Gains and losses on these contracts are recognised immediately in the income statement.
REINSURERS SHARE OF CONTRACT LIABILITIES 2006 2005 m m Reinsurers share of: Insurance contract liabilities Note 33 1,254 2,664 Investment contract liabilities Note 34 227 115 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 1,481 2,779 23.
PURCHASED INTEREST IN LONG TERM BUSINESSES 2006 2005 m m Net balance at 1 January 25 24 Amortisation charged to income 7 4 Net exchange difference 2 1 Other 7 4 Net balance at 31 December 23 25 Accumulated amortisation at 31 December 154 154 To be amortised within 12 months 4 5 To be amortised after 12 months 19 20 The net book value of purchased interest in long term businesses represents the remaining unamortised portion of the fair values of purchased long term in-force businesses which is amortised over their economic lives.
com 81 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS i Analysis of deferred acquisition costs Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Insurance contract deferred acquisition costs ii 695 69 897 78 Investment contract deferred acquisition costs iii 761 478 Deferred acquisition costs 1,456 69 1,375 78 ii Insurance contract deferred acquisition costs Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Balance at 1 January 897 78 772 71 Acquisition costs deferred 231 1 238 1 Amortisation charged to income 251 5 244 6 Decrease increase due to currency translation 79 9 55 8 1 Other 103 4 76 4 Balance at 31 December 695 69 897 78 To be amortised within 12 months 133 8 214 9 To be amortised after 12 months 562 61 683 69 1.
Included in Other is a 145m reduction which results from the adoption of the provisions of PS06 14 which has resulted in the acceleration of the recognition of margins previously used to support the deferral of these costs.
The related deferred acquisition costs have therefore been charged to the income statement during the period.
The implementation of PS06 14 is described in Note 2. iii Investment contract deferred acquisition costs Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Balance at 1 January 478 300 Acquisition costs deferred 324 188 Amortisation charged to income 41 10 Decrease due to currency translation 1 Other 1 Balance at 31 December 761 478 To be amortised within 12 months 52 37 To be amortised after 12 months 709 441 25.
INCOME TAX 2006 2005 m m Due within 12 months 5 19 Due after 12 months 7 60 Income tax recoverable 12 79 2006 2005 m m Due within 12 months 245 301 Due after 12 months 139 104 Income tax liabilities 106 197 82 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 26.
OTHER ASSETS 2006 2005 m m Reinsurance debtors 83 153 Accrued interest and rent 135 147 Prepayments and accrued income 258 236 Other debtors Linked 297 167 Other 849 459 Other assets 1,622 1,162 Due within 12 months 1,617 1,161 Due after 12 months 5 1 27.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2006 2005 m m Cash at bank and in hand 216 181 Cash equivalents 4,714 3,820 Cash and cash equivalents 4,930 4,001 Cash and cash equivalents of 4,214m 2005: 3,132m held within UK LTFs are not available to settle liabilities outside the LTFs.
SHARE CAPITAL, SHARE PREMIUM AND TREASURY SHARES i Share capital and share premium 2006 Number 2006 2005 Authorised share capital of shares m m At 31 December: ordinary shares of 2.5p each 9,200,000,000 230 230 Share Share Number capital premium Issued share capital, fully paid of shares m m Balance at 1 January 2006 6,507,421,932 163 908 Options exercised under share option schemes Executive share option scheme Note 17 5,324,625 4 Savings related share option scheme Note 17 19,515,404 11 Balance at 31 December 2006 6,532,261,961 163 923 Balance at 1 January 2005 6,505,959,483 163 907 Options exercised under share option schemes Executive share option scheme Note 17 180,628 Savings related share option scheme Note 17 1,281,821 1 Balance at 31 December 2005 6,507,421,932 163 908 There is one class of ordinary shares.
All shares issued carry equal voting rights.
The holders of the Companys ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are entitled to one vote per share at shareholder meetings of the Company.
ii Treasury shares The Group uses the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT, Employee Share Trust EST and the Legal & General Group Employee Share Plan ESP to purchase and hold shares of the Group for delivery to employees under various employee share schemes.
Shares owned by these vehicles are included at cost in the consolidated balance sheet and are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity.
They are disclosed as treasury shares until they vest to employees.
Share-based liabilities to employees may also be settled via purchases directly from the market or by the issue of new shares.
The ESOT has waived its voting rights and its rights to some of the dividends payable on the shares it holds.
Employees are entitled to dividends on the shares held on their behalf within the EST and the ESP.
com 83 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
OTHER RESERVES ShareCurrency based translation payments Hedging reserve reserve reserve AFS Total m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2006 2 30 2 4 34 Net change in financial investments designated as AFS 7 7 Net change in hedging reserve 3 3 Shares vested 12 12 Currency translation differences 9 9 Net gains losses not recognised in income statement 9 12 3 7 1 Employee share schemes: Value of employee services 14 14 Balance at 31 December 2006 7 32 1 11 49 ShareCurrency based translation payments Hedging reserve reserve reserve AFS Total m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2005 10 14 2 12 38 Net change in financial investments designated as AFS 10 10 Net change in hedging reserve Shares vested Currency translation differences 12 2 10 Net losses not recognised in income statement 12 8 20 Employee share schemes: Value of employee services 16 16 Balance at 31 December 2005 2 30 2 4 34 30.
RETAINED EARNINGS 2006 2005 m m Balance at 1 January 3,188 2,594 profit for the year 1,564 944 Dividend distributions to ordinary equity holders of the Company during the year Note 15 349 331 Distributions during the year on subordinated borrowings designated as equity Note 15 16 Actuarial gains losses on dened benefit pension schemes 3 55 Actuarial gains losses on dened benefit pension schemes transferred to unallocated divisible surplus 1 22 Transfer from share-based payments reserve 2 Fair value loss after tax on reclassication of subordinated borrowings as debt 28 Exchange losses gains 44 30 Balance at 31 December 4,335 3,188 31.
MINORITY INTERESTS Minority interests represent third party interests in property investment vehicles which are consolidated in the Groups results.
2006 2005 m m Balance at 1 January 285 214 Share of net profit in subsidiaries 67 81 Movement in third party interests 62 10 Balance at 31 December 414 285 84 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 32.
TOTAL EQUITY 2006 2005 m m Balance at 1 January 4,936 4,283 Total recognised income and expense 1,602 1,002 Issue of ordinary share capital 15 1 Net movements in employee share schemes and treasury shares 5 7 Dividend distributions to ordinary equity holders of the Company during the year 349 331 Distributions during the year on subordinated borrowings designated as equity 16 Movements in minority interests including disposals 62 10 Reclassication of subordinated borrowings from equity to debt 394 Fair value loss after tax on reclassication of subordinated borrowings as debt Note 38 28 Balance at 31 December 5,839 4,936 33.
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES i Analysis of insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Life and pensions participating insurance contracts iii 12,660 1 13,180 1 Life and pensions non-participating insurance contracts iv 21,321 1,237 22,860 2,649 General insurance contracts v 281 16 292 14 Insurance contract liabilities 34,262 1,254 36,332 2,664 ii Expected insurance contract net cash ows Date of cash ow Over Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total value As at 31 December 2006 m m m m m m Life and pensions participating insurance contracts 7,124 7,086 1,403 470 16,083 12,659 Life and pensions non-participating insurance contracts 4,797 9,754 8,946 11,782 35,279 14,132 General insurance contracts 129 129 129 Insurance contract liabilities 12,050 16,840 10,349 12,252 51,491 26,920 Date of cash ow Over Carrying 0-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total value As at 31 December 2005 m m m m m m Life and pensions participating insurance contracts 6,366 8,068 1,592 638 16,664 12,978 Life and pensions non-participating insurance contracts 4,378 8,774 8,422 11,165 32,739 14,598 General insurance contracts 278 278 278 Insurance contract liabilities 11,022 16,842 10,014 11,803 49,681 27,854 Insurance contract net cash ows are based on the expected date of settlement.
Unit linked contracts have been excluded from the table due to the exact matching of cash ows to those of the linked backing assets.
iii Movement in participating insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Balance at 1 January 13,180 1 12,388 1 New liabilities in the year 240 224 Liabilities discharged in the year 1,671 1,142 Unwinding of discount rates 432 402 Effect of change in non-economic assumptions 29 305 Effect of change in economic assumptions 487 1,148 Other 37 145 Balance at 31 December 12,660 1 13,180 1 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 1,431 1,153 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 11,228 12,026 In 2005, the largest impact of changes to non-economic assumptions was from the strengthening of the provision for claims on the endowment book 240m.
The assumption setting process is outlined in Note 37. www.
com 85 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES continued iv Movement in non-participating insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Balance at 1 January 22,860 2,649 20,509 2,887 New liabilities in the year 1,995 287 2,370 457 Liabilities discharged in the year 1,630 75 1,350 215 Unwinding of discount rates 958 134 926 225 Effect of change in non-economic assumptions 90 33 709 706 Effect of change in economic assumptions 417 9 899 1 Foreign exchange adjustments 176 26 95 19 Other 2,359 1,756 120 19 Balance at 31 December 21,321 1,237 22,860 2,649 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 1,492 1,244 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 18,592 18,967 Included within Effect of economic assumption changes is the impact of Societys review of its annuity investment policy as described in Note 2.
In 2006, Other includes 2,248m gross 1,756m reinsurance relating to the impact of applying PS06 14.
The implementation of PS06 14 is described in Note 2. v Analysis of General insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Outstanding claims 101 4 97 5 Claims incurred but not reported 36 1 45 Unearned premiums 144 11 150 9 General insurance contract liabilities 281 16 292 14 vi Movement in General insurance claim liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Balance at 1 January 142 5 180 6 Claims arising 247 3 272 6 Claims paid 206 2 219 6 Adjustments to prior year liabilities 46 1 38 1 137 5 195 5 Disposal of Gresham 53 Balance at 31 December 137 5 142 5 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 85 91 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 47 46 vii Unearned premiums Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Balance at 1 January 150 9 223 16 Earned in the period 150 11 145 9 Gross written premiums in respect of future periods 144 9 150 12 Disposal of Gresham 78 4 Balance at 31 December 144 11 150 9 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 131 138 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 2 3 86 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33.
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES continued viii Claims development General insurance Changes may occur in the amount of the Groups obligations at the end of a contract period.
The top section of each table below illustrates how the estimate of total claims outstanding for each accident year developed over time.
The bottom section of the table reconciles the cumulative claims to the amount appearing in the balance sheet.
The claims development tables exclude amounts relating to Gresham which was disposed of in 2005.
Gross of reinsurance 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Total Accident year m m m m m m Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 137 147 171 209 205 One year later 133 145 166 195 Two years later 133 141 160 Three years later 132 142 Four years later 133 Estimate of cumulative claims 133 142 160 195 205 835 Cumulative payments 131 135 151 172 121 710 Outstanding claims provision 2 7 9 23 84 125 Prior period outstanding claims 9 Claims handling provision 3 Total claims liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 137 Net of reinsurance 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Total Accident year m m m m m m Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 134 142 162 205 200 One year later 130 140 161 193 Two years later 130 137 157 Three years later 129 139 Four years later 129 Estimate of cumulative claims 129 139 157 193 200 818 Cumulative payments 127 132 149 171 119 698 Outstanding claims provision 2 7 8 22 81 120 Prior period outstanding claims 9 Claims handling provision 3 Total claims liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 132 www.
com 87 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
INVESTMENT CONTRACT LIABILITIES i Analysis of investment contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Participating investment contracts 7,501 88 7,476 64 Non-participating investment contracts 162,016 139 135,804 51 Investment contract liabilities ii 169,517 227 143,280 115 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 21,365 18,518 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 147,925 124,647 The UK participating liabilities are valued under the requirements of FRS 27. ii Movement in investment contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m Balance at 1 January 143,280 115 110,144 67 Reserves in respect of new business 28,423 93 24,542 31 Amounts paid on surrenders and maturities during the year 15,633 3 12,389 1 Investment return and related benets 13,804 22 21,289 18 Management charges 339 269 Foreign exchange adjustments 18 37 Balance at 31 December 169,517 227 143,280 115 Fair value movements of 13,393m 2005: 20,483m are included within the income statement arising from movements in investment contract liabilities designated as FVTPL.
UNALLOCATED DIVISIBLE SURPLUS 2006 2005 m m Balance at 1 January 1,894 1,559 Transferred from the income statement 284 360 Actuarial gains losses on dened benefit pension schemes transferred from the SORIE 1 22 Foreign exchange adjustments 1 3 Balance at 31 December 2,178 1,894 Unallocated divisible surplus is expected to be allocated after more than 12 months.
VALUE OF IN-FORCE NON-PARTICIPATING CONTRACTS 2006 2005 m m Balance at 1 January 379 434 Unwinding of the discount rates 18 30 Investment return 1 39 Change in valuation approach 53 Other 5 71 Balance at 31 December 391 379 Expected to be settled within 12 months 47 39 Expected to be settled after 12 months 344 340 88 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The Group tries to balance past experience and future conditions 37.
LONG TERM INSURANCE VALUATION ASSUMPTIONS by making prudent assumptions about the future expected long The Groups insurance assumptions, described below, relate term average persistency levels.
exclusively to the UK insurance business.
The non-UK businesses For non profit non-protection contracts, this prudence is also do not constitute a material component of the Groups operations incorporated into the liabilities by ensuring that they are sufficient and consideration of geographically determined assumptions is to cover the more onerous of the two scenarios where the policies therefore not included.
either remain in-force until maturity or where they discontinue at the valuation date.
Non-participating business For non profit protection contracts, a prudent persistency basis For its non-participating business the Group seeks to make prudent has been assumed for the first time, as described earlier.
assumptions about its future experience based on current market conditions and recent experience.
The approach used to set Expenses non-participating assumptions is generally similar to that used to The Group monitors its expense experience and carries out detailed determine the assumptions used for FSA statutory peak 1, although investigations regularly to determine the expenses incurred in the actual assumptions may sometimes differ from those used writing and administering the different products and classes of for regulatory reporting purposes.
Adjustments may be made for known future changes in margins to reduce the possibility of actual experience being less the administration processes, in line with the Groups business plan.
An allowance for expense ination in the future is also made, taking During the year, the regulatory requirements for the measurement account of both salary and price information.
of non-participating contracts were amended by the FSAs Policy Participating business Statement 06 14 PS06 14 which introduced a more realistic reserving For its participating business the Group seeks to establish its liabilities framework.
For the Group, the principal impacts on the valuation at their realistic value in line with the requirements set out in FRS 27 assumptions are: Life Assurance.
the liability for individual non-participating contracts with no Non-economic assumptions are set to represent the Groups best guaranteed surrender value is now permitted to be negative: and the persistency assumption now allows for the expected pattern estimates of future experience.
of persistency, adjusted to incorporate a margin for adverse Economic assumptions deviation, a prudent persistency basis.
Realistic valuation requires a market consistent economic model.
The effect of these changes which have been applied to the The model is calibrated using market data from a variety of market Groups protection business on technical provisions, net of sources.
This enables assumptions to be determined for the term reinsurance, is shown below: structure of risk free interest rates, property and equity volatility.
2006 Risk free interest rates are determined with reference to the gilt m yield curve on the valuation date increased by ten basis points.
Allowance for lapses 79 Property volatility is set with reference to historic variations in Allowance for negative reserves 562 property prices.
Equity volatility is set so that the model reproduces observed market prices of traded equity derivatives.
Correlations Valuation rates of interest and discount rates between asset classes are based on historic data.
The valuation interest rate for each contract type is based on the Each investment scenario contains a consistent set of assumptions yield on the assets backing the contract.
This yield is the gross for investment returns and ination.
redemption yield on xed interest securities and the running yield on variable interest securities.
For corporate debt, yields are adjusted Future bonuses to reect the risk of default associated with these investments.
The Future reversionary and terminal bonuses are consistent with adjustment is based on historic published information by credit rating the bonus policies set out in Societys Principles and Practices agencies.
For equity investments, the yield is based on the current of Financial Management, PPFM.
dividend yield, adjusted for prudence.
For property holdings, yields Value of in-force non-participating contracts are based on the rental income payable calculated by considering The Group makes a deduction from the liabilities for the expected different categories of tenant separately, adjusted for the possibility of value of future profits arising on non-participating contracts written default.
Default rates used in the calculation vary by tenant category.
in the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
Mortality and morbidity The economic assumptions used to calculate the value of these Mortality and morbidity assumptions are set with reference to profits are consistent with those used to calculate liabilities for withstandard tables drawn up by the Continuous Mortality Investigation profits participating business.
Non-economic assumptions represent Bureau CMIB of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
These tables best estimates of expected future experience on this business.
are based on industry wide experience.
Guaranteed annuity options The majority of internal statistical investigations are carried out The guarantees are valued on a market consistent basis.
The at least annually to determine the extent to which the Groups experience differs from that of the industry and suggest appropriate valuation methodology allows for the correlation between interest adjustments which need to be made to the valuation assumptions.
rates and the proportion of the policyholders who take up the option.
Persistency Guaranteed cash options The Group monitors its persistency experience and carries out The liability is determined assuming that policyholders choose the detailed investigations annually.
Persistency can be volatile and most valuable alternative between the annuity and cash available past experience may not be an appropriate future indicator.
com 89 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
LONG TERM INSURANCE VALUATION ASSUMPTIONS continued The table below sets out the current valuation assumptions used to establish the long term liabilities for Society, LGP, and Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited.
Full disclosure of the valuation assumptions are set out in the Abstract of the Valuation Report contained within the FSA returns.
2006 2005 Rate of interest discount rates Non-participating business 1 Life assurances 3.00% pa and 7.60% pa 3.00% pa 1 Pension assurances 3.00 4.00% pa and 7.60% pa 3.00 4.00% pa Annuities in deferment 4.11 4.80% pa 2.65 4.45% pa Annuities in deferment RPI-linked: net rate after allowance for ination 0.89 1.65% pa 0.65 1.50% pa Vested annuities 4.72 4.80% pa 4.45% pa Vested annuities RPI-linked: net rate after allowance for ination 1.20 1.65% pa 1.50% pa Participating business Risk free rate 10 years 4.84% pa 4.24% pa Future bonuses Determined stochastically Determined stochastically in line with bonus policy in line with bonus policy as stated in PPFM as stated in PPFM UK equity volatility 10 year option term 21.5% 22.2% Property volatility 15.0% 15.0% Mortality tables Non-participating business Non-linked individual term assurances: 2 2 Smokers 125 145% TMS00 TFS00 Sel 5 125 166% TMS00 TFS00 Sel 5 2 2 Non-smokers 105 110% TMN00 TFN00 Sel 5 105 110% TMN00 TFN00 Sel 5 2 2 Smoker status unknown 145% TM00 TF00 Sel 5 140% TM00 TF00 Sel 5 2 2 Non-linked individual term assurances with critical illness 63 108% CIBT93M F Ult Comb 63 108% CIBT93M F Ult Comb Other non-linked non profit life assurances A67 70 suitably age adjusted A67 70 suitably age adjusted Annuities in deferment 75 85% AM92 AF92 80% A67 70 Ult-3 yrs 3 Vested annuities Bulk purchase annuities 97 102% PCMA00 PCFA00 101 104% PCMA00 PCFA00 Other annuities 50 92% PCMA00 PCFA00 48 94% PCMA00 PCFA00 1.
For product groups where liabilities are positive, the lower interest rate of 3.00-4.00% is used.
However, for product groups where liabilities are negative, the higher rate of 7.60% is used.
For term assurance, mortality rates are assumed to increase at a rate of 0.5% pa. For term assurance with critical illness, morbidity rates are assumed to deteriorate at a rate of 1% pa for males and 1.75% pa for females.
There is also an allowance for AIDS of 33% Institute of Actuaries AIDS Working Party Bulletin No.
For vested annuities, mortality rates are assumed to reduce according to the average of CMI Working Paper 1 projection MC and LC with a minimum of 0.8% pa for males and according to CMI projection MC with a minimum of 0.8% pa for females.
For certain annuities a further allowance is made for the effect of initial selection.
90 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 37.
LONG TERM INSURANCE VALUATION ASSUMPTIONS continued Premiums non-participating business For those contracts where the policyholder does not have the right to vary the amount of the premium paid, full credit is taken for the premiums contractually due at the valuation date.
For contracts where the policyholder has the option to vary the rate of premium, the provision is taken as being the higher of the amount calculated as if the policyholder continues to make premium payments or, alternatively, ceases to pay premiums altogether.
Persistency non-participating business At 31 December 2005, valuation liabilities were calculated as being the greater of the liability assuming that the contract continues in-force until maturity, or discontinues at the valuation date.
The one exception to this was for certain term assurances where there is a liability to reinsurers on discontinuance within the first four years from inception and provisions were calculated assuming lapse rates as follows: 2005 Year 1 10% Year 2 15% Year 3 25% Year 4 25% For all years after Year 4 a nil lapse rate was assumed.
With the introduction of PS06 14 at 31 December 2006, it is permissible to value all long term business assuming a prudent lapse basis.
The approach taken as at the end of 2005 has therefore changed for non-participating protection business.
For this business, the valuation persistency basis is set by applying a prudential margin over the best estimate assumptions.
The margin acts to increase the best estimate lapse rate in the early part of a policys lifetime when it is being treated as an asset but to reduce the best estimate lapse rate later in the policys lifetime when it is treated as a liability.
The crossover point at which the margin changes direction is assessed for broad product groups but applied at a policy by policy level.
Any liability to reinsurers on discontinuance within the first four years from inception is allowed for explicitly in the cash ows using the valuation lapse basis, together with a prudent allowance for clawback of commission from agents upon lapse.
A summary of the lapse basis for major classes of business, as dened by the requirements of the annual returns to the FSA, is shown below.
2006 average lapse rate for the policy years 1-5 6-10 11-15 16-20 Product %%%% Level term 12.2 9.7 3.2 3.2 Decreasing term 12.2 10.1 6.0 5.9 Accelerated critical illness cover 16.7 11.2 5.7 5.6 Pensions term 10.5 9.1 5.4 5.2 Overseas Business In calculating the long term business provisions for international long term business operations, local actuarial tables and interest rates are used.
Endowment reserve The endowment reserve has been set taking reasonable account of an assessment of the expected future population of complaints, the expected uphold rate for these complaints, the potential impact of any Financial Ombudsman Service decisions on referred complaints and the average compensation per complaint.
com 91 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
BORROWINGS Analysis by nature Carrying Coupon Carrying Coupon amount rate Fair value amount rate Fair value 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 m % m m % m Subordinated borrowings designated as equity 5.875% sterling undated subordinated notes 394 5.88 434 Subordinated borrowings 5.875% sterling undated subordinated notes 429 5.88 411 4.0% Euro subordinated notes 2025 389 4.00 397 415 4.00 424 Total subordinated borrowings 818 808 809 858 Senior borrowings 2.75% sterling convertible bond 2006 509 2.75 521 Sterling medium term notes 2031-2041 608 5.87 682 608 5.87 716 Euro commercial paper 2007 370 4.66 370 110 2.30 110 Bank loans 2007 3 5.28 3 6 4.90 6 Non recourse nancing US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2025 270 5.37 270 308 4.40 308 US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2037 226 5.72 226 Sterling property partnership loans 2011 130 5.91 130 93 5.50 93 Total senior borrowings 1,607 1,6811,634 1,754 Total borrowings 2,425 2,4892,443 2,612 Total borrowings excluding non recourse nancing 1,799 1,863 2,042 2,211 During 2006, 602m of borrowings which were previously attributed to the SRC were attributed to Society shareholders.
106m of interest expense was incurred during the period 2005: 75m on borrowings excluding non recourse nancing.
Subordinated borrowings The sterling undated subordinated notes are treated as upper tier II capital for regulatory purposes and the Euro dated subordinated notes as lower tier II capital.
5.875% sterling undated subordinated notes Legal & General Group Plc has issued 400m of 5.875% undated subordinated notes.
These notes are callable on 1 April 2019 and every five years thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 1 April 2019 will be reset to the prevailing five year benchmark gilt yield plus 2.33% per annum.
As at 31 December 2005 the undated subordinated notes were classied as equity because their perpetual nature meant that in certain circumstances interest could be deferred indefinitely.
On 13 March 2006 the Group entered into a supplementary deed to remove the discretionary nature of the interest in certain circumstances.
This had the effect of reclassifying the notes from equity to liability and coupon payments from distributions to interest.
Upon reclassication the debt was recognised at fair value.
4.0% Euro subordinated notes 2025 Legal & General Group Plc has also issued 600m of 4.0% Euro dated subordinated notes.
The proceeds were swapped into sterling.
The notes are callable on 8 June 2015 and each year thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 8 June 2015 will reset to a oating rate of interest based on prevailing three month Euribor plus 1.7% per annum.
Non recourse nancing US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2025 A subsidiary of Legal & General America has issued US$550m of non recourse debt in the US capital markets to meet the Triple X reserve requirements on the US term insurance business.
It is secured on the cash ows related to this business.
US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2037 In 2006, a subsidiary of Legal & General America issued US$450m of non recourse debt in the US capital markets to meet the Triple X reserve requirements on the US term insurance business.
Sterling property partnership loans 2011 The property partnership loans are secured on specic properties.
92 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 38.
BORROWINGS continued Analysis by maturity Maturity Effective interest Carrying Within Over rate amount 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years As at 31 December 2006 %mmmmmm Subordinated borrowings designated as equity 5.875% sterling undated subordinated notes Subordinated borrowings 5.875% sterling undated subordinated notes 5.23 429 429 4.0% Euro subordinated notes 2025 4.12 389 389 Senior borrowings 2.75% sterling convertible bond 2006 Sterling medium term notes 2031-2041 5.83 608 353 255 Euro commercial paper 2007 4.66 370 370 Bank loans 2007 5.28 3 3 Non recourse nancing US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2025 5.37 270 270 US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2037 5.72 226 226 Sterling property partnership loans 2011 5.91 130 130 Total borrowings 2,425 373 130 1,012 910 Maturity Effective interest Carrying Within Over rate amount 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years As at 31 December 2005 %mmmmmm Subordinated borrowings designated as equity 5.875% sterling undated subordinated notes 6.03 394 394 Subordinated borrowings 5.875% sterling undated subordinated notes 4.0% Euro subordinated notes 2025 4.12 415 415 Senior borrowings 2.75% sterling convertible bond 2006 5.67 509 509 Sterling medium term notes 2031-2041 5.83 608 608 Euro commercial paper 2006 2.30 110 110 Bank loans 2006 4.90 6 6 Non recourse nancing US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2025 4.40 308 308 US Dollar Triple X securitisation 2037 Sterling property partnership loans 2011 5.50 93 93 Total borrowings 2,443 625 93 723 1,002 As at 31 December 2006 the Group had in place a five year 1bn syndicated committed revolving credit facility with a number of its key relationship banks.
The facility also has a one year extension option at the end of 2007.
The maturity prole above is calculated on the basis that a facility to renance a maturing loan is not recognised unless the facility and loan are related.
If renancing under the Groups syndicated facility was recognised, then all amounts shown as repayable within one year would be reclassied as repayable between one and five years.
The effective interest rate is the rate which discounts exactly future cash payments over the life of the borrowing and will include all transaction costs and premia or discounts on issue.
For the 5.875% sterling undated subordinated notes, the effective rate includes the impact of reclassication of the notes from equity to debt on 13 March 2006 at fair value.
Convertible bond The convertible bond matured in 2006 and was redeemed at par without being converted into ordinary shares.
The debt component, net of expenses, of the convertible bond recognised in the balance sheet is calculated as follows: 2006 2005 m m Balance at 1 January 509 493 Interest expense 30 30 Coupons paid 14 14 Repayment of debt 525 Balance at 31 December 509 The fair value of the debt component of the convertible bond at 31 December 2005 was 517m.
Interest expense on the bond was calculated using the effective interest rate of 5.7% on the debt component.
com 93 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE On 7 February 2007, the Group entered into an agreement with the Nationwide Building Society to purchase Nationwide Life Limited and Nationwide Unit Trust Managers Limited for a consideration estimated at 285m.
Consideration will be set by reference to the financial position of the two companies at the date of completion using an agreed basis of valuation.
In addition, the arrangement provides access to Nationwides distribution network, through which it is anticipated that a wide range of the Groups investment, pensions and life insurance products will be sold.
The sale is conditional on the consent of the FSA to the change of control of the companies, and other customary conditions, and is expected to complete in the summer of 2007, when the distribution arrangements are expected to be launched.
PROVISIONS Retirement benefit obligations Dened contribution plans The Group operates the following dened contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas: Legal & General Group Personal Pension Plan UK.
Legal & General Staff Stakeholder Pension Scheme UK.
Legal & General America Inc Savings Plan US.
Rgime fide Retraite Professionnel France.
Contributions of 17m 2005: 16m were charged as expenses during the year in respect of these plans.
Dened benefit plans The Group operates the following dened benefit pension schemes in the UK and overseas: Legal & General Group UK Pension and Assurance Fund the Fund.
The Fund was closed to new members from January 1995: last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2004.
Legal & General Group UK Senior Pension Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme was, with a few exceptions principally transfers from the Fund, closed to new members from August 2000: last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2004.
Legal & General America Inc. Cash Balance Plan: last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2005.
Legal & General Nederland Stichting Pensioenfonds: last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2006.
Rgime fide Retraite Prestations Dnies fide Legal & General France : last full actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2006.
The benets paid from the dened benefit schemes are based on percentages of the employees final pensionable salary for each year of credited service.
The Group has no liability for retirement benets other than for pensions, except for a small scheme in France Indemnites fide Fin Carriere, which provides lump sum benets on retirement.
The Fund and Scheme account for virtually all of the UK and over 98% of worldwide assets of the Groups dened benefit schemes.
The principal actuarial assumptions for the UK dened benefit scheme were: 2006 2005 Fund and Scheme Fund and Scheme % % Rate used to discount liabilities 5.10 4.70 Expected return on plan assets 6.72 6.59 Rate of increase in salaries 3.60 3.25 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.25 3.00 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 4.00 4.00 Rate of general ination RPI 3.20 3.00 Rate of wage ination 4.00 4.00 Post retirement mortality 2006 100% PCMA PCFA 00 with improvement at 100% MC males, 70% MC females, minimum improvement 0.6% pa 2005 100% PMA PFA 92 with improvement at 100% MC males, 100% MC females, projected to calendar year 2010 94 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 40.
PROVISIONS continued 2006 2005 Fund and 2006 Fund and 2005 Scheme Overseas Scheme Overseas m m m m Change in present value of dened benefit obligations Balance at 1 January 1,284 20 1,089 17 Current service cost 18 1 16 2 Interest expense 60 1 58 1 Plan participants contributions 3 3 Actuarial loss gain recognised in SORIE 5 1 154 1 Benets paid 43 1 36 1 Exchange differences 1 Balance at 31 December 1,327 19 1,284 20 Change in fair value of plan assets Balance at 1 January 706 16 589 14 Expected return on plan assets 46 1 43 1 Actuarial gain recognised in SORIE 10 76 Employer contributions 39 2 31 2 Plan participants contributions 3 3 Benets paid 43 1 36 1 Exchange differences 1 Balance at 31 December 761 17 706 16 Gross pension obligations included in provisions 566 2 578 4 Annuity obligations insured by Society 392 367 Gross dened benefit pension deficit 174 2 211 4 Deferred tax on dened benefit pension deficit 52 1 63 1 Net dened benefit pension deficit 122 1 148 3 The total amount of actuarial gains losses net of tax recognised in the SORIE for the year was 3m: cumulative 95 m 2005: 55 m: cumulative 98 m. Actuarial gains losses net of tax relating to with-profits policyholders of 1m 2005: 22 m have been allocated to the unallocated divisible surplus.
The historic funding and experience adjustments are as follows: 2006 2005 2004 2003 m m m m Present value of dened benefit obligations 1,346 1,304 1,106 951 Fair value of plan assets 778 722 603 540 Gross pension obligations 568 582 503 411 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 13 9 9 9 Experience adjustments on plan assets 10 76 36 59 The fair value of the plan assets and expected return at the end of the year is made up as follows: Expected Expected UK return Overseas return As at 31 December 2006 m % m % Equities 460 7.6 5 8.8 Bonds 244 5.1 10 4.5 Properties 57 6.6 Other investments 2 3.5 761 17 Expected Expected UK return Overseas return As at 31 December 2005 m % m % Equities 428 7.5 6 8.8 Bonds 220 4.7 7 3.8 Properties 58 7.0 Other investments 3 5.4 706 16 The expected rate of return for bonds is based on the current yield on a medium to long term AA bond index.
The expected rates of return on equities and properties are based on margins over bond yields reecting risk premiums.
The return on plan assets in 2006 was 57m 2005: 120m.
com 95 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
PROVISIONS continued The following amounts have been charged credited to the income statement: 2006 2005 m m Current service costs 19 18 Interest expense 61 59 Expected return on plan assets 47 44 Total included in other expenses 33 33 41.
DEFERRED INCOME LIABILITIES 2006 2005 m m Due within 12 months 64 46 Due after 12 months 358 305 Deferred income liabilities 422 351 42.
DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES The movement in deferred tax liabilities during the year is as follows: Charged Movements As at 31 credited to Charged from As at 31 December the income credited disposal December 2005 statement to equity of business 2006 m m m m m Unrealised gains and losses on investments and debt liabilities 570 131 2 703 Excess of depreciation over capital allowances 30 3 33 Temporary differences between the accounts and tax deduction for expenses 7 34 19 46 Temporary differences between the accounts and tax deduction for actuarial reserves 49 94 7 136 Tax losses gains carried forward 37 200 5 232 Temporary differences in relation to the pension fund deficit 64 9 2 53 Other temporary differences 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 492 3 17 472 Charged Movements As at 31 credited to Charged from As at 31 December the income credited disposal December 2004 statement to equity of business 2005 m m m m m Unrealised gains and losses on investments and debt liabilities 392 189 6 5 570 Excess of depreciation over capital allowances 34 4 30 Temporary differences between the accounts and tax deduction for expenses 21 15 13 7 Temporary differences between the accounts and tax deduction for actuarial reserves 19 28 2 49 Tax losses carried forward 11 24 2 37 Temporary differences in relation to the pension fund deficit 47 7 24 64 Other temporary differences 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 295 219 17 5 492 96 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 42.
DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES continued No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, as the Group is able to control the remittance of earnings to the UK and there is no intention to remit any such earnings to the UK in the foreseeable future if the remittance would trigger any incremental UK tax liability.
The maximum estimated temporary differences unprovided for are set out below, grouped by country.
The calculation of the maximum temporary difference takes no account of any foreign tax suffered on the earnings in the jurisdiction of the foreign entity which might be available by way of double tax relief to reduce any UK tax liability arising on remittance.
2006 2005 m m USA 346 351 France 48 33 394 384 Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: The Group has unrelieved trading losses carried forward of 12m 2005: 3m in its overseas operations.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as at 31 December 2006 or 31 December 2005, as it is probable that there will be no suitable profits emerging in future periods against which to relieve them.
Relief for these losses will only be obtained if there are suitable profits arising in future periods.
The potential deferred tax asset unrecognised as at 31 December 2006 is 3m 2005: 1m.
The Group has unrelieved post-cessation trading losses carried forward of 17m 2005: 18m.
Relief for these losses will only be obtained if there are suitable post-cessation trading profits arising in future periods.
The potential deferred tax asset unrecognised as at 31 December 2006 is 5m 2005: 5m.
The Group has surplus non-trading loan relationship deficits and management expenses carried forward of 17m 2005: 17m.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these deficits and expenses as at 31 December 2006 or 31 December 2005, as it is probable that there will be no suitable profits emerging in future periods against which to relieve them.
Relief for these deficits and expenses will only be obtained if there are suitable profits arising in future periods.
The Group has net realised and unrealised capital losses carried forward of 2m 2005: nil.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as at 31 December 2006 as it is probable that there will be no suitable profits emerging in future periods against which to relieve them.
The potential deferred tax asset unrecognised as at 31 December 2006 is 1m 2005: nil.
OTHER LIABILITIES 2006 2005 m m Accruals 256 111 Derivative liabilities 177 118 Reinsurers share of deferred acquisition costs 69 78 Other 1,161 996 Other liabilities 1,663 1,303 Settled within 12 months 1,405 1,138 Settled after 12 months 258 165 The accruals balance includes a provision of 112m 2005: nil for future commission payments that have contingent settlement provisions.
This liability has been determined using the net present value of the future commission that will be payable on fund values relevant to the provision.
This valuation technique uses assumptions that are consistent with the Groups effective rate of interest, investment return assumptions and persistency assumptions as used in other valuations, but are not determined by reference to published price quotations.
The undiscounted value that is expected to be paid at maturity in respect of such commission is 164m.
Since this liability is being initially recognised and the cost deferred as an origination cost, no change in fair value has been recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2006.
This amount is sensitive to persistency and market value assumptions.
com 97 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS There were no material transactions between directors or key managers and the Legal & General Group of companies.
All transactions between the Group, its directors and key managers are on commercial terms which are no more favourable than those available to employees in general.
Contributions to the post-employment benefit plans are outlined in Note 40.
The UK dened benefit pension schemes have purchased annuity contracts issued by Society for consideration of 57m 2005: 37m during the year, priced on an arms length basis.
At 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005 there were no loans outstanding to ofcers of the Company.
Key management personnel compensation The aggregate compensation for key management personnel, including executive and non-executive directors, is as follows: 2006 2005 m m Salaries 17 14 Social security costs 3 2 Post-employment benets 7 4 Share-based incentive awards 6 4 Key management personnel compensation 33 24 Number of key management personnel 73 57 The Groups investment portfolio includes investments in venture capital, property and financial investments which are held via collective investment vehicles.
Net investments into associate investment vehicles totalled 1,542m during the year 2005: 375m.
The Group has outstanding loans to these associates of 6m 2005: 12m and received investment management fees of 31m during the year 2005: 25m.
Distributions from these investment vehicles to the Group totalled 109m 2005: 88m.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES, GUARANTEES AND INDEMNITIES Provision for the liabilities arising under contracts with policyholders is based on certain assumptions.
The variance of actual experience from that assumed may result in such liabilities differing from the provisions made for them.
Liabilities may also arise in respect of claims relating to the interpretation of such contracts, or the circumstances in which policyholders have entered into them together in this paragraph liabilities.
The extent of such liabilities is inuenced by a number of factors including the actions and requirements of the FSA, by ombudsman rulings, by industry compensation schemes and by court judgements.
The continuing general prole and emphasis being given by the FSA and other bodies to the suitability of the past sales of endowment policies in the context of some mortgage transactions has led to the continuing receipt of claims from holders of endowment policies.
Various Group companies receive claims and become involved in actual or threatened litigation and regulatory issues from time to time.
Provision for liabilities continues to be made and is regularly reviewed.
However, it is not possible to predict, with certainty, the extent and the timing of the financial impact to which these claims, litigation or issues may give rise.
The relevant members of the Group nevertheless consider that each makes prudent provision, as and when circumstances calling for such provision become clear, and that each has adequate capital and reserves to meet all reasonably foreseeable eventualities.
In 1975, the Society was required by the Institute of London Underwriters ILU to execute the ILU form of guarantee in respect of policies issued through the ILUs Policy Signing Ofce on behalf of NRG Victory Reinsurance Company Ltd Victory, a company which was then a subsidiary of the Society.
In 1990, Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep Holding NV the assets and liabilities of which have since been assumed by Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep NV under a statutory merger in the Netherlands acquired Victory and provided an indemnity to the Society against any liability the Society may have as a result of the ILUs requirement, and the ILU agreed that its requirement of the Society would not apply to policies written or renewed after the acquisition.
Whether the Society has any liability as a result of the ILUs requirement and, if so, the amount of its potential liability is uncertain.
The Society has made no payment or provision in respect of this matter.
Group companies have given indemnities and guarantees, including interest rate guarantees, as a normal part of their operating activities or in relation to capital market transactions.
98 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 46.
COMMITMENTS i Capital commitments 2006 2005 m m Authorised and contracted commitments not provided for in respect of investment property development, payable after 31 December Long term business 49 44 ii Operating lease commitments 2006 2005 m m The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Not later than 1 year 23 18 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 93 52 Later than 5 years 232 86 348 156 Future aggregate minimum sublease payments expected to be received under operating subleases 9 12 The future aggregate minimum lease receivables under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Not later than 1 year 2 3 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 4 7 Later than 5 years 3 3 9 13 The Group leases ofces and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
SUBSIDIARIES i Operating subsidiaries The principal operating subsidiaries consolidated in these financial statements are listed below.
The Company holds, directly or indirectly, all of the ordinary share capital and voting rights of these companies.
Company name Nature of business Country of incorporation 1 Legal & General Finance Plc Treasury operations England and Wales 1 Legal & General Resources Limited Provision of services England and Wales Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Long term and general insurance England and Wales Legal & General Insurance Limited General insurance England and Wales Legal & General Investment Management Limited Institutional fund management England and Wales Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited Long term business England and Wales Legal & General Pensions Limited Reinsurance England and Wales Legal & General Partnership Services Limited Provision of services England and Wales Legal & General Portfolio Management Services Limited Institutional fund management England and Wales Legal & General Property Limited Property management England and Wales Legal & General Unit Trust Managers Limited Unit trust management England and Wales Legal & General Ventures Limited Venture capital management England and Wales Legal & General France SA Long term business France Legal & General Bank France SA Financial services France Legal & General Nederland Levensverzekering Maatschappij NV Long term business Netherlands Banner Life Insurance Company Inc Long term business USA William Penn Life Insurance Company of New York Inc Long term business USA First British American Reinsurance Company Reinsurance USA First British American Reinsurance Company II Reinsurance USA 1.
Directly held by Legal & General Group Plc.
All other subsidiaries are held through intermediate holding companies.
The main territory of operation of subsidiaries incorporated in England and Wales is the UK.
For overseas subsidiaries the principal country of operation is the same as the country of incorporation.
The complete list of subsidiary undertakings can be obtained from the registered ofce at Temple Court, 11 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4N 4TP.
com 99 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
SUBSIDIARIES continued ii Investment vehicles The following mutual funds and partnerships have been consolidated as a result of the Groups ownership of the majority of the benets arising from the investment vehicle.
% of equity held Vehicle name Vehicle type Territory by the Group Arlington Business Parks Unit Trust Property unit trust Jersey 53.8 Chineham Shopping Centre Limited Partnership Property unit trust Jersey 100.0 Ealing Shopping Centre Limited Partnership Property unit trust Jersey 100.0 Gresham Street Limited Partnership Property unit trust Jersey 100.0 Harrow Shopping Centre Limited Partnership Property unit trust Jersey 100.0 Legal & General City Ofces Limited Partnership Property unit trust Jersey 100.0 Legal & General West End Ofces Limited Partnership Property unit trust Jersey 100.0 Northampton Shopping Centre Limited Partnership Property unit trust Jersey 100.0 The Leisure Fund Limited Partnership Property partnership England and Wales 49.5 Legal & General Equity Trust Equity unit trust UK 81.0 Legal & General European Trust Equity unit trust UK 82.0 Legal & General Far Eastern Trust Equity unit trust UK 86.0 Legal & General Global Growth Trust Equity unit trust UK 64.0 Legal & General Growth Trust Equity unit trust UK 73.0 Legal & General High Income Trust Fixed interest unit trust UK 63.0 Legal & General Japanese Trust Equity unit trust UK 76.0 Legal & General North American Trust Equity unit trust UK 80.0 Legal & General Pacic Growth Trust Equity unit trust UK 93.0 Legal & General UK Smaller Companies Trust Equity unit trust UK 72.0 48.
ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES The Group has the following significant holdings which have been included as financial investments or investments in associates.
The gross assets of these companies are in part funded by borrowings which are non recourse to the Group.
Country of Accounting % of equity shares Company name incorporation treatment held by the Group Cofunds Holdings Limited England and Wales Equity method 25.4 Bracknell Property Unit Trust Jersey FVTPL 50.5 English Cities Fund England and Wales FVTPL 37.5 The IPIF Feeder Unit Trust Jersey FVTPL 27.4 Legal & General UK Property Trust England and Wales FVTPL 59.3 Meteor Industrial Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 49.9 Performance Shopping Centre Limited Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 50.0 UK Logistics Fund Unit Trust Jersey FVTPL 43.2 Warrington Retail Unit Trust Jersey FVTPL 25.0 LGV 1 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 46.3 LGV 2 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 37.1 LGV 3 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 46.6 LGV 4 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 36.7 LGV 5 Private Equity Fund Limited Partnership England and Wales FVTPL 45.0 Mithras Investment Trust Plc England and Wales FVTPL 34.7 Legal & General Ethical Trust England and Wales FVTPL 36.0 Legal & General European Index Trust Plc England and Wales FVTPL 34.0 Legal & General Japanese Index Trust England and Wales FVTPL 37.0 Legal & General US Index Trust England and Wales FVTPL 37.0 Legal & General Distribution Trust England and Wales FVTPL 34.0 Legal & General Pacic Index Trust England and Wales FVTPL 39.0 Legal & General Fixed Interest Trust England and Wales FVTPL 20.0 100 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 48.
ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES continued Summarised financial information for associates which are classied as FVTPL is shown below: Venture Property capital partnerships Unit trusts Total m m m m Aggregate revenues 174 139 257 570 Aggregate profit 171 51 94 316 Gross assets 386 2,358 4,891 7,635 Gross liabilities 7 554 54 615 Capital management policies and objectives 49.
GOODWILL RESULTING FROM ACQUISITIONS The Group aims to manage its capital resources to maintain financial strength, policyholder security and relative external The cumulative goodwill charged to reserves prior to 1998, arising financial strength ratings advantage.
The Group also seeks to from acquisition of subsidiaries which are still part of the Group, maximise its financial exibility by maintaining strong liquidity amounted to 70m 2005: 70m.
and by utilising a range of alternative sources of capital including equity, senior debt, subordinated debt and reinsurance.
MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES Capital measures Capital fund structure The Group measures its capital on a number of different bases, The Groups total capital resources of 8.4bn 2005: 7.0bn on including those which comply with the regulatory framework within an IFRS basis comprise ordinary equity holders capital, 5.4bn which the Group operates and those which the directors consider 2005: 4.3bn, subordinated debt, 0.8bn 2005: 0.4bn, most appropriate for managing the business.
The measures used subordinated debt designated as equity, nil 2005: 0.4m by the Group include: and unallocated divisible surplus, 2.2bn 2005: 1.9bn.
Accounting bases The Group writes a range of long term insurance and investment The directors believe that the supplementary accounts prepared business in the Long Term Fund LTF of its main operating insurance using European Embedded Value EEV principles provide the subsidiary, Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Society.
This most accurate and meaningful reection of the Groups long fund is segregated from the Groups other assets.
The fund includes term operations and the value of the business to shareholders.
participating with-profits business where policyholders and Accordingly the Groups net asset value and total capital shareholders share in the risks and rewards, and non-participating employed are analysed and measured on this basis.
non profit business, where the shareholders receive the profits.
In addition, management have regard to the primary financial Capital in excess of an amount required to cover the liabilities within statements prepared under IFRS in order to manage capital and the non profit part of the Society LTF is known as the Shareholder cash ow usage and to determine dividend paying capacity.
Retention of the SRC within the LTF provides support for new and existing non profit business.
Regulatory basis On 31 December 2006, the non-linked non profit pensions and The financial strength of the Groups insurance subsidiaries is annuity business of Society was ceded to a new, wholly owned, measured under local regulatory requirements see page 102. reinsurance company, Legal & General Pensions Limited LGP.
The One of these regulatory measures, Individual Capital Assessment reinsurance was effected on arms length terms.
The reinsurance ICA, measures capital using risk based techniques, and provides assets are held in a LTF and are separate from other assets within a measure of economic capital.
Basis of regulatory capital and corresponding regulatory Transfers from the Society LTF to shareholders is limited by a formula capital requirements agreed with the FSA.
In practice, the maximum transfer is the aggregate In each country in which the Group operates, the local insurance of the shareholders share of the with-profits surplus, a smooth regulator species rules and guidance for the minimum amount investment return of 7% on the embedded value of the SRC and Sub-fund and 5% on the embedded value of the non profit business and type of capital which must be held by long term insurance subsidiaries in excess of their insurance liabilities.
The minimum of Society and LGP, adjusted to remove the impact of the contingent loan between SRC and LGP, and the shareholder net worth of LGP.
required capital must be maintained at all times throughout the year.
This helps to ensure that payments to policyholders can be Managed pension fund business is written through Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited PMC, which is a life made as they fall due.
The Group has not breached any regulatory company writing predominantly non-participating group pension capital requirements at any time during the year.
business effected by trustees of occupational schemes in the UK The required capital is calculated by either assessing the or their equivalent overseas.
The assets are held in a LTF and are additional assets which would be required to meet the insurance separate from other assets within the Group.
companys liabilities in specified, stressed financial conditions, or In addition, General insurance business is written in the UK by by applying xed percentages to the insurance companys liabilities Legal & General Insurance Limited, and long term insurance business and risk exposures.
The requirements in the different jurisdictions is written by subsidiaries in America, the Netherlands and in France.
in which the Group operates are detailed overleaf: www.
com 101 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES continued In addition to the regulatory capital calculations for the individual rms, the Group is required to comply with the requirements of the UK regulatory basis Insurance Groups Directive IGD.
This is a very prudent measure of Required capital for the life business is based on the rules of the FSA.
capital resources, as it excludes any amount of surplus capital within Society must hold assets in excess of the higher of two amounts, the a LTF.
first being calculated using the FSA rules pillar 1, the second being Available regulatory capital resources an economic capital assessment by the Company which is reviewed Capital resources available to meet the UK capital requirements by the FSA pillar 2, otherwise known as ICA.
are determined using FSA valuation rules.
The asset valuation rules The public pillar 1 capital calculation is the total of two amounts.
are based on UK GAAP, adjusted for both admissibility limits and The first amount is based on the most onerous of a number of stress specic valuation differences.
The Groups regulatory capital tests which are applied to both assets and insurance liabilities.
position statement in Table 1 sets out the different sources of capital The second amount is calculated by applying xed percentages held within the Group.
The Groups total available capital resources, to liabilities and sums assured at risk.
There are further stress tests for 1 based on the unaudited FSA returns, are 6,897m 2005: 6,172m of participating liabilities as measured in the Realistic Balance Sheet, which 5,835m 2005: 4,607m is held by the life businesses.
The use which may increase the required capital.
of capital held by the UK and overseas life businesses is generally The private pillar 2 capital calculation is an assessment of the constrained by local regulatory requirements, and may not be economic capital required to ensure that the Company can meet available to provide funding for other businesses.
its liabilities, with a high likelihood, as they fall due.
This is achieved The total available capital resources of the Groups with-profits by stochastic modelling and scenario testing.
The result is reviewed business of 1,128m 2005: 842m is determined in accordance and may be modied by the FSA.
with the realistic balance sheet rules prescribed by the FSA.
The Regulatory capital for the General insurance business is also capital resources reect the surplus in that part of the fund which calculated using FSA pillar 1 and pillar 2 requirements.
The pillar 1 is in excess of any constructive obligation to policyholders.
The calculation applies xed percentages to premiums and claims.
Pillar 2 liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet do not include creates a higher capital requirement and is therefore applied.
the amount representing the shareholders share of future bonuses.
US regulatory basis However, for capital reporting, the shareholders share is deducted Required capital is determined to be the Company Action Level Risk from capital resources in the capital statement.
Based Capital RBC based on the National Association of Insurance At 31 December 2006, the realistic value of the UK participating Commissioners RBC model.
RBC is a method of measuring the liabilities was 19,756m 2005: 20,338m under the FSA realistic minimum amount of capital appropriate for an insurance company capital regime.
The excess of realistic assets over realistic liabilities to support its overall business operations taking into account its size was 1,128m 2005: 842m.
The calculation is based on applying factors to various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items, with the 1.
The FSA returns are audited and led subsequent to the publication of the factors determined as higher for those items with greater underlying Groups capital position.
risk and lower for less risky items.
French and Dutch regulatory bases The minimum required capital is dened by the French Ministry of Finances Code des Assurances and the fide Nederlandsche Bank N. V. Dutch Supervisory Body respectively.
The basis of the calculation is a percentage of the liabilities plus a percentage of the sum assured at risk and, for some contracts, the premium.
The percentages depend on the guarantees given and the amount of reinsurance cover.
102 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 50.
MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES continued Table 1 Regulatory capital position statement UK non Shareholders profit, SRC equity and UK withand SubOverseas other profits fund LGP and PMC Total life activities Total 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m m m 1 Ordinary shareholders equity outside the LTF 550 906 1,456 706 2,162 Ordinary shareholders equity in the LTF 3,263 3,263 3,263 Capital and reserves attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company 3,263 550 906 4,719 706 5,425 2 Adjustments onto regulatory basis : Unallocated divisible surplus 1,862 302 14 2,178 2,178 3 Other 734 242 70 428 1,474 29 1,503 Other qualifying capital: 4 Subordinated borrowings 797 797 5 Internal loans 571 971 12 412 412 6 Implicit item Total available capital resources 1,128 2,752 1,451 504 5,835 1,062 6,897 IFRS liability analysis: UK participating liabilities on realistic basis Options and guarantees 520 520 520 Other policyholder obligations 18,117 37 18,154 18,154 Overseas participating liabilities 1,487 1,487 1,487 Unallocated divisible surplus 1,862 302 14 2,178 2,178 Value of in-force non-participating contracts 391 391 391 Participating contract liabilities 20,108 339 1,501 21,948 21,948 Unit linked non-participating life assurance liabilities 678 4,307 971 5,956 5,956 Non-linked non-participating life assurance liabilities 1,996 11,847 1,522 15,365 15,365 Unit linked non-participating investment contract liabilities 7,468 11,069 143,479 162,016 162,016 General insurance liabilities 281 281 Non-participating contract liabilities 10,142 27,223 145,972 183,337 281 183,618 www.
com 103 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES continued Table 1 Regulatory capital position statement continued UK non Shareholders profit, SRC equity and UK withand SubOverseas other profits fund LGP and PMC Total life activities Total 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 m m m m m m m 1 Ordinary shareholders equity outside the LTF 901 901 1,398 2,299 Ordinary shareholders equity in the LTF 1,958 1,958 1,958 Capital and reserves attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company 1,958 901 2,859 1,398 4,257 2 Adjustments onto regulatory basis : Unallocated divisible surplus 1,527 280 87 1,894 1,894 3 Other 685 207 409 1,301 27 1,328 Other qualifying capital: 4 Subordinated borrowings 809 809 5 Internal loans 602 13 615 615 6 Implicit item 540 540 540 Total available capital resources 842 3,173 592 4,607 1,565 6,172 IFRS liability analysis: UK participating liabilities on realistic basis Options and guarantees 686 686 686 Other policyholder obligations 18,653 18,653 18,653 Overseas participating liabilities 1,317 1,317 1,317 Unallocated divisible surplus 1,527 280 87 1,894 1,894 Value of in-force non-participating contracts 379 379 379 Participating contract liabilities 20,487 280 1,404 22,171 22,171 Unit linked non-participating life assurance liabilities 661 4,136 820 5,617 5,617 Non-linked non-participating life assurance liabilities 2,073 13,559 1,611 17,243 17,243 Unit linked non-participating investment contract liabilities 6,514 7,110 122,180 135,804 135,804 General insurance liabilities 292 292 Non-participating contract liabilities 9,248 24,805 124,611 158,664 292 158,956 1.
Society shareholder capital of 1,307m 2005: 1,896m is included within Shareholders equity and other activities.
Figures extracted from draft regulatory returns.
Shareholders share in realistic liabilities of 749m 2005: 690m and changes to the value of assets and liabilities on a regulated basis of 754m 2005: 638m are included within Other.
Group has issued 600m of subordinated lower tier II borrowings and 400m of subordinated upper tier II borrowings both of which are treated as capital on a regulatory basis.
In 2006, LGP issued 200m of subordinated upper tier II borrowings and 200m of subordinated lower tier II borrowings to Society.
In addition, 571m has been injected from Societys LTF into LGPs LTF by means of a contingent loan to cover the initial regulatory loss in LGP.
These loans qualify as capital for regulatory purposes in LGP.
Legal & General Overseas Holdings Limited has subscribed for a total of 18m 2005: 18m of perpetual subordinated loan stock issued by Legal & General Holdings France SA.
This loan qualies as hybrid capital for Legal & General Holdings France SA.
The implicit item recognises profits in relation to in-force business written in the non profit part of Societys LTF which are expected on a prudent assessment to emerge over the next five years.
The maximum amount permitted is determined by the FSA.
In 2005, there was an implicit item of 540m.
There is no implicit item in 2006.
104 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 50.
MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES continued Available regulatory capital resource risks The Groups available capital resources are sensitive to changes in market conditions, due to both changes in the value of the assets and to the effect that changes in investment conditions may have on the value of the liabilities.
Capital resources are also sensitive to assumptions and experience relating to mortality and morbidity and, to a lesser extent, expenses and persistency.
The most significant sensitivities arise from the following four risks: market risk in relation to UK participating business which would crystallise if adverse changes in the value of the assets supporting this business could not be fully reected in payments to policyholders because of the effect of guarantees and options.
The capital position of this business would also deteriorate if increases to the market cost of derivatives resulted in an increase in the liability for guarantees and options in the realistic balance sheet.
market risk in relation to the UK annuity business, which would crystallise if the return from the xed interest investments supporting this business were lower than that assumed for reserving.
mortality risk in relation to the UK annuity business, which would crystallise if the mortality of annuitants improved more rapidly than the assumptions used for reserving.
mortality risk in relation to the UK and US term assurance businesses, which would crystallise if mortality of the lives insured was higher than that assumed, possibly because of an epidemic.
A range of management actions are available to mitigate any adverse impact from changing market conditions and experience.
Examples of possible management actions available to mitigate such an effect include changes to with-profits bonus rates, changes to discretionary surrender terms and the potential for charging for guarantees.
To the extent that management actions are expected only to partially offset adverse experience, then liabilities would be increased to anticipate the future impact of the worse experience and total capital resources would be reduced.
Movements in life business regulatory capital resources The movement in the life business regulatory capital resources is shown in Table 2.
Table 2 Movements in life business capital resources UK non profit, SRC UK withand SubOverseas profits fund LGP and PMC Total life 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m Balance at 1 January 842 3,173 592 4,607 Effect of investment variations 127 862 42 947 Effect of changes in non-economic assumptions 72 75 3 Changes in management policy 4 1,297 1,301 Changes in regulatory requirements 2 363 3 368 New business 16 236 89 309 Cash distributions 272 68 340 Other factors 73 234 1,451 108 1,866 Balance at 31 December 1,128 2,752 1,451 504 5,835 Other factors within LGP represent the available capital resources of that Company on a regulatory basis.
UK non profit, SRC UK withand SubOverseas profits fund LGP and PMC Total life 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 m m m m m Balance at 1 January 864 2,895 557 4,316 Effect of investment variations 294 684 42 1,020 Effect of changes in non-economic assumptions 282 1 283 Changes in management policy 72 175 247 Changes in regulatory requirements 121 215 6 342 New business 11 459 103 573 Cash distributions 219 39 258 Other factors 26 313 141 480 Balance at 31 December 842 3,173 592 4,607 www.
com 105 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
In addition, Risk and Compliance Committees RCCs are in 51.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL place for each of the Groups main operational businesses.
These The pages which follow describe the Groups approach to risk committees are predominantly responsible for reviewing the management.
The first section deals with the overall approach, management of operational risks and compliance with regulation.
It is followed by a detailed review of risks The local holding companies of the overseas subsidiaries have within the Groups key businesses.
established RCCs to cover their trading subsidiaries.
The Boards of overseas rms are responsible for ensuring appropriate processes Risk management objectives are in place for the management of risk exposures.
The GRCC The Groups primary objective in undertaking risk management receives reports from the RCCs of each overseas rm to confirm activity is to minimise its exposure to unexpected financial loss that risks remain acceptable.
and limit the potential for deviation from anticipated outcomes.
Methods used to monitor and assess risk exposures Risk management approach A continuous Groupwide process is in place formally identifying, A significant part of the Groups business involves the acceptance evaluating and managing significant risks to the achievement of and management of risk.
The Group is exposed to insurance, market, the Groups objectives.
A standard approach is used to assess risks.
credit, liquidity and operational risks and operates a formal risk Senior management and the risk review functions review the output management framework to ensure that all significant risks are of the assessments.
A Groupwide risk assessment process is used identied and managed.
The risk factors mentioned below should to provide determination of key risks within the Group reported not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
Insurance risk: Insurance risk is the risk arising from higher claims Group and rm level risk review functions provide oversight of the being experienced than anticipated.
risk management processes within the Group.
A central risk function Market risk: Market risk is the risk arising from uctuations in interest is responsible for setting the risk management framework and rates, exchange rates, share prices and other relevant market prices.
Risk review functions in each of the business operating Credit risk: Credit risk is the risk of loss if another party fails to perform units manage the framework in line with these standards.
Their its financial obligations to the Group.
responsibilities include the evaluation of changes in the business Liquidity risk: Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, though solvent, operating environment and business processes, the assessment of does not have sufficient financial resources available to enable it these changes on risks to the business and the monitoring of the to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can only secure them at mitigating actions.
The risk review functions also ensure that RCCs excessive cost.
are provided with meaningful risk reports and that there is appropriate Operational risk: Operational risk is the risk arising from inadequate or information to assess risk issues.
failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
Management of risks Risk framework The Group seeks to manage its exposures to risk through control Overall responsibility for the management of the Groups exposure techniques so as to ensure that the residual risk exposures are to risk is vested in the Group Board.
To support it in this role, a risk within acceptable tolerances agreed by the Board.
The key control framework is in place comprising a structure of formal committees, techniques for the major categories of risk exposure are summarised risk assessment and reporting processes and risk review functions.
The framework provides assurance that risks are being appropriately Insurance risk identied and managed and that an independent assessment of Insurance risk is implicit in the Groups insurance business and arises risks is being performed.
as a consequence of the type and volume of new business written Oversight of the risk management framework is performed on behalf of the Group Board by its sub-committee, the Group Risk and and the concentration of risk in particular policies or groups of policies subject to the same risks.
A detailed review of the Groups inherent Compliance Committee GRCC.
The GRCC is supported in this role by the following sub-committees: residual risks associated with insurance products is included in pages Capital Committee: The Capital Committee assesses the capital 112 to 116.
Insurance risk is managed using the following techniques: requirements including the risk based capital requirements of Policies and delegated authorities for underwriting, pricing the Group: monitors the sources of capital available to meet these and reinsurance requirements: oversees the allocation of capital to rms: and monitors Pricing is based on assumptions, such as mortality and persistency, at a Group level a number of performance and capital measures.
which have regard to past experience and to trends.
Insurance Counterparty Credit Committee: The Committee has oversight exposures are limited through reinsurance.
Overall, the Group of counterparty credit risk across the Group, sets the limits for the seeks to be conservative in its acceptance of insurance risks by Groups exposure to any single counterparty failure and manages establishing strict underwriting criteria and limits.
The underwriting exposures within these limits.
policy is clearly documented, setting out risks which are UK Asset and Liability Committee: The Committee has oversight unacceptable and the terms applicable for non-standard risks.
of the management of market and liquidity risks arising within Reinsurance is used to reduce potential loss to the Group from Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Society, and its individual large risks and catastrophic events.
It may also be used subsidiaries Legal & General Pensions Limited LGP and to manage capital or to provide access to specialist underwriting Legal & General Insurance Limited LGI.
The Group makes extensive use of reinsurance for its UK Pricing and Insurance Risk Committee: The Committee has UK individual protection business, placing a proportion of all risks oversight of the management of insurance risk arising within Society, meeting prescribed criteria.
The Group has also entered into external LGP and LGI.
Oversight of the management of insurance risks arising reinsurance arrangements, the primary effect of which is to reduce within the Groups overseas subsidiaries is performed by the boards the capital requirements associated with this business.
of the local holding companies, which report directly to the GRCC.
Group Operational Risk Assessment Committee: The Committee The principal General insurance reinsurances are excess of loss catastrophe treaties, under which the cost of claims from a has oversight of specic aspects of the Groups operational risk, particularly issues which are common across the Group, and seeks to weather event, in excess of an agreed retention level, is recovered ensure consistency in approaches to operational risk management.
106 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Derivatives 51.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued The Group uses derivatives to reduce market risk.
The most widely Reserving policy used derivatives are exchange traded equity futures and swaps.
All subsidiaries writing insurance business have a documented The Group may use futures to facilitate efficient asset allocation.
reserving policy setting out the basis on which liabilities are to In addition, derivatives are used to improve asset liability matching be determined using statistical analysis and actuarial experience.
and to manage interest rate, foreign exchange and ination risks.
Policies for each subsidiary are in line with locally established It is the Groups policy that amounts at risk through derivative actuarial techniques, relevant regulation and legislation.
Further transactions are covered by cash or corresponding assets and details of the assumption setting process are included in Note 37. that swaps are collateralised to reduce counterparty exposure.
Market Risk Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to market risk as a consequence of uctuations Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group is exposed to lower returns in values or returns on assets and liabilities, which are inuenced by or loss as a direct or indirect result of uctuations in the value of, or one or more external factors, including changes in specified interest income from, specic assets arising from changes in underlying rates, financial instrument prices, foreign exchange rates, and indices interest rates.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on the investment significant areas where the Group is exposed to these risks are: portfolio it maintains to meet the obligations and commitments assets backing insurance and investment contracts other than under its non-linked insurance and investment contracts, in that the linked contracts: proceeds from the assets may not be sufficient to meet the Groups assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies: and obligations to policyholders.
other financial assets and liabilities To mitigate the risk that guarantees and commitments are not The Group manages market risk using the following methods: met, the Group purchases financial instruments, which broadly match the expected non-participating policy benets payable, Asset liability matching by their nature and term.
The composition of the investment portfolio The Group manages its assets and liabilities in accordance with is governed by the nature of the insurance or savings liabilities, the relevant regulatory requirements, reecting the differing types of expected rate of return applicable on each class of asset and the liabilities it has in each business.
capital available to meet the price uctuations for each asset class, For business such as immediate annuities, which are sensitive to relative to the liabilities they support.
Additionally, uctuations in interest rate risk, cash ow analysis is used to create a portfolio of interest rates will vary the repayments on variable rate debt issued xed income securities, the value of which changes in line with the by the Group Note 38. value of liabilities when interest rates change.
This type of analysis helps protect profits from changing interest rates.
Interest rate risk cannot be completely eliminated, due to the nature of the liabilities and early redemption options contained in the assets.
For businesses where a range of asset types, including equity and property, are held to meet liabilities, the Group uses stochastic models to assess the impact of a range of future return scenarios on investment values and associated liabilities.
This allows the Group to devise an investment and with-profits policyholder bonus strategy which optimises returns to its policyholders over time, whilst limiting the capital requirements associated with these businesses.
The Group uses this method extensively in connection with its UK with-profits business.
com 107 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued Table 3 summarises the exposure of the Groups assets to changes in interest rates.
Financial assets which are not directly exposed to interest rate risk such as linked assets, equities, other debtors have not been included.
Asset liability matching signicantly reduces the Groups exposure to interest rate risk.
The expected cash outows on insurance contract liabilities are shown in Note 33.
Weighted average effective interest rate.
Both xed rate financial assets and variable rate securities are categorised by maturity dates.
Currency risk The Group manages its currency risk exposure in the following way: In respect of long term business assets and liabilities denominated in non-sterling currencies, the Group protects its exposure to exchange rate uctuations by backing obligations with investments in the same currency.
Balance sheet foreign exchange currency translation exposure in respect of the Groups international subsidiaries is actively managed in accordance with a policy, agreed by the Group Board, which allows between 25% and 75% of net foreign currency assets to be hedged through the use of derivatives.
108 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006
