RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued Table 4 summarises the Groups exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, in sterling.
Non-linked assets and liabilities are reported in their underlying currency.
Table 4 Currency risk Japanese Sterling Euro US Dollar Yen Other Linked Total 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 As at 31 December 2006 m m m m m m m Assets Investment in associates 16 16 Plant and equipment 40 2 1 43 Investments 35,693 2,854 2,339 643 890 170,793 213,212 Purchased interests in long term business 7 16 23 Other operational assets 3,001 200 846 1 523 4,571 Total assets 38,757 3,056 3,202 643 891 171,316 217,865 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings 429 389 818 Participating contract liabilities 20,448 1,273 227 21,948 Non-participating contract liabilities 14,121 375 1,149 1 167,972 183,618 Senior borrowings 990 121 496 1,607 Provisions 566 2 568 Deferred liabilities 715 21 158 894 Creditors 644 168 466 1 490 1,769 Net asset value attributable to unitholders 804 804 Total liabilities 37,913 2,349 2,269 2 169,493 212,026 Japanese Sterling Euro US Dollar Yen Other Linked Total 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 As at 31 December 2005 m m m m m m m Assets Investment in associates 16 16 Plant and equipment 28 2 2 32 Investments 37,426 2,352 2,476 809 804 142,530 186,397 Purchased interests in long term business 10 15 25 Other operational assets 3,860 202 913 1 419 5,395 Total assets 41,340 2,556 3,406 809 805 142,949 191,865 Liabilities Subordinated borrowings 415 415 Participating contract liabilities 20,767 1,203 201 22,171 Non-participating contract liabilities 15,921 350 1,262 2 141,421 158,956 Senior borrowings 1,215 110 308 1 1,634 Provisions 578 3 1 582 Deferred liabilities 656 32 155 843 Creditors 867 128 121 3 381 1,500 Net asset value attributable to unitholders 828 828 Total liabilities 40,419 1,826 1,847 6 142,831 186,929 Other price risk Other price risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash ows of a financial instrument will uctuate because of changes in market prices other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk.
These changes may be as a result of features of the individual instrument, its issuer or factors affecting all similar financial instruments traded in the market.
The Group controls its exposure to geographic price risks by using internal country credit ratings.
These ratings are based on macroeconomic data and key qualitative indicators.
The latter take into account economic, social and political environments.
Table 5 indicates the Groups exposure to different equity markets around the world.
Linked equity investments are excluded from the table as the risk is retained by the policyholder.
com 109 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued Table 5 Exposure to worldwide equity markets 2006 2005 m m UK 8,557 8,567 North America 441 366 Europe 1,027 986 Japan 619 741 Asia Pacic 695 611 Other 35 39 Listed equities 11,374 11,310 Unlisted UK equities 201 203 Holdings in unit trusts 1,267 1,381 Total equities 12,842 12,894 The Group holds non-linked commercial property investments totalling 3,751m 2005: 3,653m, of which 3,729m 2005: 3,587m are located in the UK.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group is exposed to loss if another party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Group.
significant areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk are: The Group holds corporate bonds to back part of its insurance liabilities.
significant exposures are managed by the application of concentration limits, with allowance being made in the actuarial valuation of the insurance liabilities for possible defaults.
The Group limits its exposure to insurance risk by ceding part of the risks it assumes to the reinsurance market.
To limit the risk of reinsurer default the Group operates a credit rating policy when arranging cover.
When selecting new reinsurance partners the Group considers only companies which have a minimum credit rating equivalent to A from Standard & Poors and imposes limits on the level of exposure to any individual reinsurer.
Aggregate counterparty exposures are regularly monitored both at an individual subsidiary level and on a Groupwide basis.
The credit prole of the Groups assets exposed to credit risk is shown in Table 6.
The credit rating bands are provided by independent rating agencies.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued Legal risk is the risk of loss from unclear or deficient product Liquidity risk documentation: inadequate documentation in support of material Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, though solvent, either does contracts such as reassurance treaties: the incorrect interpretation of not have sufficient financial resources available to enable it to meet changes in legislation: employment related disputes and claims: and its obligations as they fall due or can secure them only at excessive commercial disputes with suppliers.
The risks are actively managed cost.
The Groups treasury function is responsible for managing the through the Group Legal Risk framework, which defines minimum Groups banking relationships, capital raising activities, overall cash standards of control to be applied to minimise the risk of loss.
and liquidity position and the payment of dividends.
The Group Compliance seeks to manage funds and liquidity requirements on a pooled Compliance risk within the Group relates to the risk of nonbasis and to ensure the Group maintains sufficient liquid assets adherence to legislative requirements, regulations and internal and standby facilities to meet a prudent estimate of its net cash policies and procedures.
Responsibility for ensuring adherence to outows.
In addition it ensures that, even under adverse conditions, relevant legal and regulatory requirements is vested in individual the Group has access to the funds necessary to cover surrenders, business managers.
They are supported, where appropriate, by withdrawals and maturing liabilities.
In practice, most of the business standards functions which assess and confirm that business Groups invested assets are marketable securities.
This, combined processes conform to these requirements.
A Group compliance with the fact that a large proportion of the liabilities contain function has oversight of the Groups compliance with regulatory discretionary surrender values or surrender charges, reduces the requirements and standards, providing policy advice and guidance liquidity risk.
The Group has in place a 1bn, five year syndicated and oversight of compliance arrangements and responsibilities.
borrowing facility which provides exibility in the management Event of the Groups liquidity.
Event risk relates to the potential for loss arising from external Operational risk significant events such as terrorism, financial crisis, major changes in Operational risk is the potential for loss resulting from inadequate scal systems or disaster.
Typically, such events have a low likelihood or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external of occurrence, a material impact and can be difficult to prevent.
There are a number of headings under which operational The Groups risk mitigation focuses on minimising the business risk and its management across the Group can be considered.
disruption and potential financial loss which may ensue from Identied control issues are escalated to business unit RCCs.
This includes maintaining a framework for the management of major incidents, the maintenance and regular Internal process failure testing of detailed business, technical and location recovery plans The Group is exposed to the risk of loss from failure of the internal and the provision of insurance cover for the loss of buildings, processes with which it transacts its business.
Each subsidiary is contents and information technology IT systems and for the responsible for ensuring the adequacy of the controls over its increased cost of working in the event of business disruption.
processes and regular reviews are undertaken of their appropriateness and effectiveness.
All business managers are required to confirm Fraud regularly the adequacy of controls from these reviews to business unit The Group is exposed to the risk of internal fraud, claim related RCCs, the GRCC and the Group Audit Committee.
significant control fraud, and external action by third parties.
The risk of internal fraud issues which business areas identify are escalated to business unit is managed through a number of processes including the screening RCCs, which oversee their resolution.
of staff at recruitment, segregation of duties and whistle-blowing policies.
The activities of internal audit also act to counter the risk.
People Claims related fraud is managed by ensuring business processes The Group is potentially exposed to the risk of loss from inappropriate are designed to fully validate claims and ensure that only bona fide actions by its staff.
The risk is actively managed by business claims are settled.
Anti-fraud techniques are regularly updated to management and human resource HR functions.
Recruitment is mitigate risks and emerging threats.
managed centrally by HR functions, and all new recruits undergo a formal induction programme.
All employees have job descriptions Technology setting out their accountabilities and reporting lines, and are The Group places a high degree of reliance on IT in its business appraised annually in accordance with agreed performance activities.
The failure of IT systems could potentially expose the management frameworks.
Employees in regulated subsidiaries Group to significant business disruption and loss.
To mitigate this risk, are provided with appropriate training to enable them to meet the standards and methodologies for developing, testing and operating relevant regulatory requirements.
Risks relating to health and safety IT systems are maintained.
There is a centralised management for and other legislation are managed through the provision of relevant development activity and production systems to ensure consistency training to all staff.
Disaster recovery facilities enable IT operations to be conducted at remote locations in the event of Outsourcing the loss of computer facilities at a principal ofce site.
All records The Group is potentially exposed to the actions or failure of suppliers are remotely backed up and computer suites are equipped with contracted to provide services on an outsourced basis, although alternative power sources.
the Group is not a significant user of such services.
The required minimum standards of control for outsourced arrangements are set out in the Groups outsourcing and key supplier policy.
Compliance with this policy is monitored by business management and adherence is reported through the regular controls conrmation process undertaken across the Group.
com 111 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
There is a block of immediate and deferred annuities within the UK 51.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued non profit business with benets linked to changes in the Retail Price UK life and pensions Index RPI, but with contractual maximum or minimum increases.
UK life and pensions products are structured as either participating In particular, most of these annuities have a provision that the products, or non-participating products, including annuities in annuity will not reduce if RPI falls.
The total of such annuities in payment and unit linked products.
The level of shareholders interest payment at 31 December 2006 was 136m 2005: 190m.
Thus, 1% in the value of policies and their share of the related profit or loss negative ination, which was reversed in the following year would varies depending upon the contract structure.
result in a guarantee cost of approximately 1m 2005: 2m.
Negative ination sustained over a longer period would give rise Non-participating contracts to signicantly greater guarantee costs.
Some of these guarantee profits from non-participating business accrue solely to shareholders.
costs have been partially matched through the purchase of Such business is written mainly in the non profit part of the Society negative ination hedges and limited price indexation bonds.
In addition, there is some non-participating business in the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
Key risk factors a Insurance risk Protection business individual and group i Mortality risk The Group offers protection products which provide mortality or For contracts providing death benets, higher mortality rates would morbidity benets and may include health, disability, critical illness lead to an increase in claims costs.
For annuity contracts the Group and accident benets.
These additional benets are commonly is exposed to the risk that mortality experience is lower than used as supplements to main life policies but can also be sold assumed.
Lower than expected mortality would require payments separately.
The benefit amounts would usually be specified in to be made for longer and increase the cost of benets provided.
Some sickness benets are sold to cover the The Group regularly reviews its mortality experience and industry policyholders mortgage repayments and are linked to the projections of longevity and adjusts the valuation and pricing prevailing mortgage interest rates.
In addition to these benets, assumptions accordingly.
some contracts may guarantee premium rates, provide guaranteed The Group is exposed to mortality risk on protection and annuity insurability benets and offer policyholders conversion options.
For protection products, the Group has entered into Life savings business reinsurance arrangements to mitigate this risk and provide A range of contracts is offered in a variety of different forms to meet nancing.
Annuity contracts are not generally reinsured externally.
customers long term savings objectives.
Policyholders may choose ii Persistency to include a number of protection benets in their savings contracts.
At early durations, lapses and surrenders are likely to result in a loss Typically, any guarantees under the contract would only apply on to the Group, as the acquisition costs associated with the contract maturity or earlier death.
On certain older contracts there may be would not have been recovered from product margins.
Some provisions guaranteeing surrender benets.
Savings contracts may contracts include surrender penalties to mitigate this risk.
or may not guarantee policyholders an investment return.
Where the At later durations, once the acquisition costs have been recouped, return is guaranteed, the Group may be exposed to interest rate risk the effect of lapses and surrenders depends upon the relationship with respect to the backing assets.
between the exit benefit, if any, and the liability for that contract.
Pensions individual and corporate Exit benets are not generally guaranteed and the Group has some These are long term savings contracts through which policyholders discretion in determining the amount of the payment.
As a result, the accumulate pension benets.
Some older contracts contain a basic effect on profit at later duration is expected to be broadly neutral.
guaranteed benefit expressed as an amount of pension payable or Following the adoption of PS06 14 in 2006, as described in a guaranteed annuity option which exposes the Group to interest Note 37, the persistency assumption for non-participating protection rate and longevity risk.
These guarantees become more costly business allows for the expected pattern of persistency, adjusted to during periods when interest rates are low or when annuitant incorporate a margin for adverse deviation.
Previously, the liabilities mortality improves faster than expected.
The ultimate cost will also were established so that they were sufficient to cover the more depend on the take-up rate of any option and the final form of onerous of the two scenarios, in which the policies either remain annuity selected by the policyholder.
in force until maturity, or discontinue at the valuation date.
Other options provided by these contracts include an open There is no persistency risk exposure for annuities in payment.
market option on maturity, early retirement and late retirement.
These contracts do not provide a lapse or surrender option.
The Group would generally have discretion over the terms on which iii Morbidity rates these options are offered.
The cost of health related claims depends on both the incidence of Annuities policyholders becoming ill and the duration over which they remain ill. Higher than expected incidence and duration would increase Deferred and immediate annuity contracts are offered.
Immediate annuities provide a regular income stream to the policyholder, costs over the level currently assumed in the calculation of liabilities.
purchased with a lump sum investment, where the income stream iv Expense variances starts immediately after the purchase.
The income stream from Higher expenses and or expense ination will tend to increase the a deferred annuity is delayed until a specified future date.
Bulk value of the reserves required.
The Group is exposed to the risk that annuities are also offered, where the Group manages the assets its liabilities are not sufficient to cover future expenses.
and accepts the liabilities of a company pension scheme or a life fund.
v Geographic concentrations of risk Non-participating deferred annuities written by the Group do not Insurance risk may be concentrated in geographic regions, altering the risk prole of the Group.
The most significant exposure of this contain guaranteed cash options.
Annuity products provide guaranteed income for a specified type arises for the group protection business, where a single event time, usually the life of the policyholder, in exchange for a lump sum could result in a large number of related claims.
To reduce the overall exposure, current contracts include an event limit which capital payment.
No surrender value is available under any of these products.
The primary risks to the Group from annuity products are caps the total liability.
Additionally, excess of loss reinsurance therefore mortality improvements and investment risk.
arrangements further mitigate the exposure.
112 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 b Market risk 51.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued Investment of the assets backing the Group liabilities reects the nature of the liabilities being supported.
For non-participating vi Epidemics business the objective is to maximise profits, while ensuring stability, The spread of an epidemic could cause large aggregate claims by closely matching the cash ows of assets and liabilities.
To across the Groups portfolio.
Quota share reinsurance contracts achieve this matching, the strategy is to invest in xed income are used to manage this risk.
securities of appropriate maturity dates.
vii Accumulation of risks Interest rate risk is reduced by managing the duration and There is limited potential for single incidents to give rise to a large maturity structure of each investment portfolio in relation to the number of claims across the different contract types written by the estimated duration of the liabilities it supports.
In particular, there is little significant overlap between the derivatives are held to enable the matching of asset and liability to long term and short term insurance business written by the Group.
mitigate further exposure to interest rate movements, in particular However, there are potentially material correlations of insurance to limit the exposure to any options and guarantees in contracts.
risk with other types of risk exposure.
These correlations are difficult In addition, the exposure to these risks is allowed for in the actuarial to estimate though they would tend to be more acute as the valuation of liabilities under these contracts.
underlying risk scenarios become more extreme.
An example of the accumulation of risk is the correlation between reinsurer credit c Sensitivity analysis risk with mortality and morbidity exposures.
Table 7 shows the impact on pre-tax profit and equity, net of reinsurance, under each sensitivity scenario for the nonparticipating business written in the non profit part of the UK LTF.
Table 7 UK non profit life and pensions sensitivity analysis Impact on Impact on pre-tax profit equity net of net of reinsurance reinsurance 2006 2006 m m Sensitivity test Market interest rate increase of 1% 139 98 Market interest rate decrease of 1% 237 166 Reduction in the mortality rates for annuitants of 5% 234 164 Protection claims increasing by 5% 73 51 Increase in expenses of 10% 59 41 Increase in lapse rates of 10% 25 18 Decrease in lapse rates of 10% 27 19 In calculating the alternative values, all other assumptions are left unchanged.
In practice, items of the Groups experience may be correlated.
The Group seeks to actively manage its asset and liability position.
A change in market conditions would lead to changes in the asset allocation or charging structure which may have a more significant impact on the value of the liabilities.
The analysis also ignores any second order effects of the assumption change, including the potential impact on the Group asset and liability position and any second order tax effects.
The sensitivity of the profit to changes in assumptions may not be linear as implied by these results.
They should not be extrapolated to changes of a much larger order.
The change in market interest rate test assumes a 100 basis point change in the gross redemption yields on UK life and pensions xed interest securities together with a 100 basis point change in the real yields on variable securities.
Valuation interest rates move in line with market yields adjusted to allow for the impact of FSA regulations.
com 113 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued i Persistency At early durations, the nature of the persistency risks on with-profits Participating contracts business is largely the same as for non-participating business and Participating contracts are supported by the with-profits part of the is inuenced mainly by the ability to recover acquisition costs from Society LTF.
They offer policyholders the possibility of the payment product margins.
At later durations, there is less scope for withdrawal of benets in addition to those guaranteed by the contract.
to result in a loss for the Group as these contracts typically provide The amount and timing of the additional benets usually called explicit allowances for market conditions.
Allowance for future bonuses are contractually at the discretion of the Group.
withdrawals is made in the assessment of participating contract Policyholders and shareholders share in the risks and returns of liabilities.
The Group is generally exposed to the risk that future the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
The return to shareholders withdrawals are lower than assumed, resulting in higher future on virtually all participating products is in the form of a transfer to guarantee costs.
shareholders equity, which is analogous to a dividend from the Society LTF and is dependent upon the bonuses credited or declared b Market risk on policies in that year.
The bonuses are broadly based on historic The financial risk exposure for participating contracts is different and current rates of return on equity, property and xed income from that for non-participating business.
Greater emphasis is placed securities, as well as expectations of future investment returns.
on investing to maximise future investment returns rather than UK life and pensions allocates discretionary increases to matching assets to liabilities.
This results in holding significant equity benets on its participating contracts in one or both of regular and property investments.
Lower investment returns increase the and final bonus form.
These bonuses are set in accordance costs associated with maturity and investment guarantees provided with the principles outlined in the Groups PPFM for the on these contracts.
management of the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
These risks are managed by maintaining capital sufficient to These principles include: cover the consequences of mismatch under a number of adverse The with-profits part of the Society LTF will be managed with scenarios and by the use of derivatives.
In addition, different the objective of ensuring that its assets are sufficient to meet investment strategies are followed for assets backing policyholder its liabilities without the need for additional capital.
asset shares and assets backing other participating liabilities and With-profits policies have no expectation of any distribution from surplus.
The former include significant equity and property holdings, the with-profits part of the Society LTFs inherited estate.
The whilst the latter are invested largely in xed interest securities and inherited estate is the excess of assets held within the Society LTF are managed so as to provide a partial hedge to movements in over and above the amount required to meet liabilities, including xed interest yields.
those which arise from the regulatory duty to treat customers fairly The methodology used to calculate the liabilities for participating in setting discretionary benets.
contracts makes allowance for the possibility of adverse changes Bonus rates will be smoothed so that some of the short term in investment markets on a basis consistent with the market cost uctuations in the value of the investments of the with-profits of hedging the guarantees provided.
The methodology also makes part of the Society LTF and the business results achieved in the withallowance for the cost of future discretionary benets, guarantees profits part of the UK LTF are not immediately reected in payments and options.
The value of future discretionary benets depends on the return Some older participating contracts include a guaranteed minimum achieved on assets backing these contracts.
The asset mix varies rate of roll up of the policyholders fund up to the date of retirement or maturity.
with investment conditions reecting the Groups investment policy, The nature of the participating contracts written in the with-profits which aims to optimise returns to policyholders over time whilst part of the Society LTF is that more emphasis can be placed on limiting capital requirements for this business.
investing to maximise future investment returns.
This results in a The distribution of surplus to shareholders depends upon the broader range of investments being held within the fund.
bonuses declared within the fund.
Typically, bonus rates are set with regard to investment returns, although the Group has some With-profits bonds discretion setting rates and would normally smooth bonuses over These contracts provide an investment return to the policyholder time.
The volatility of investment returns could have both a favourable which is determined by the attribution of regular and final bonuses over the duration of the contract.
In addition, the contracts provide and unfavourable impact on the funds capital position and its ability a death benefit, typically of 101% of the value of units allocated to to pay bonuses.
If future investment conditions were less favourable the policyholder.
than anticipated, the lower bonus levels resulting would also reduce future distributions to shareholders.
Pension contracts However, business which is written in the with-profits part of the The Group has sold pension contracts containing guaranteed Society LTF is managed to be self-supporting.
The unallocated annuity options which expose the Group to both interest rate and divisible surplus in the fund would normally be expected to absorb longevity risk.
The market consistent value of these guarantees carried in the balance sheet is 75m 2005: 130m.
the impact of these investment risks.
Only in extreme scenarios, where shareholders were required to provide capital support to the Deferred annuity contracts with-profits part of the Society LTF, would these risks affect equity.
The Group has written some deferred annuity contracts which have The Groups approach to setting bonus rates is designed to treat guaranteed minimum pensions.
These options expose the Group customers fairly.
The approach is set out in the Societys PPFM for to interest rate risk as the cost would be expected to increase with the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
In addition, bonus interest rates.
These guarantees only apply with respect to premiums declarations are also affected by FSA regulations relating to already received.
The market consistent value of these guarantees Treating Customers Fairly TCF, which limit the discretion available carried in the balance sheet is 114m 2005: 120m.
The Groups approach to setting bonuses Key risk factors and meeting the FSAs TCF regulations may increase the Groups The insurance and market risk exposures for participating business exposure to market risk should the ability to cut bonuses, during are largely the same as those discussed for non-participating periods when investment returns are poor, be reduced.
The notable differences in the operation of these contracts are discussed below.
114 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 to cover the guaranteed rate.
LGA is also exposed to loss should 51.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued interest rates increase, as the underlying market value of assets will generally fall without a change in the surrender value.
The reserves c Sensitivity analysis for universal life and deferred annuities totalled $766m and $272m Future bonuses inuence both the current capital requirements of respectively at 31 December 2006 2005: $799m and $277m the fund and future profitability.
The guaranteed interest rates associated with those The unallocated divisible surplus is accounted for as a liability.
reserves ranged from 1.5% to 5.5%, with the majority of the policies This represents the assets within the with-profits part of the Society having a 4% guaranteed rate the same rates applied in 2005.
LTF, in excess of the realistic liabilities, which are available to pay The deferred annuity contracts also contain a provision that, future bonuses.
Changes in the key underlying variables will affect at maturity, a policyholder may move the account value into an the value of the assets and liabilities in the fund.
The level of immediate annuity, at rates which are either those currently in unallocated divisible surplus will be adjusted to allow for changes effect, or rates guaranteed in the contract.
The other annuity in assets and liabilities and, as a result, there would normally be no contracts have similar risks to those in the UK.
In extreme scenarios shareholders may be called upon to provide Legal & General Netherlands LGN additional capital support to the fund.
However, the Group has LGN principally writes non-participating individual unit linked discretion in the management actions it can take with regard savings, protection and annuity business.
The unit linked savings to participating policies to mitigate the extent of any additional business generally includes an element of exposure to mortality support required.
The individual term assurances provide death benets over Participating policyholders and shareholders share in all surplus the medium to long term.
Reinsurance is used to reduce the share arising in the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
10% of the surplus is of insurance risk.
The risk factors detailed in this The annuity contracts have similar risks to those in the UK: section could affect future distributions of surplus and shareholders however, the majority of annuity business has a term of three 10% share thereof.
Linked contracts Legal & General France LGF For linked contracts investment and insurance, there is a direct LGF writes a range of long term insurance and investment business link between the investments and the obligations.
Linked business through its subsidiaries.
The principal products written are life is written in both the Society LTF and in the LTF of Legal & General assurance and pensions savings, group protection, annuities and Assurance Pensions Management Limited.
The financial risk on open ended investment vehicles.
these contracts is borne by the policyholders.
The Group is, therefore, The group protection business consists of group term assurance, not exposed to any market risk, currency risk and credit risk for renewable on an annual basis, sickness and disability, and medical these contracts.
The Groups primary exposure to financial risk expenses assurance.
The group sickness and disability and medical from these contracts is the risk of volatility in asset management expenses policies integrate with the social security benets providing fees due to the impact of interest rate and market price movements a level of top-up to those benets.
Reinsurance is used to manage on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds, on which exposure to large individual and group claims.
investment management fees are based.
The Group is also exposed The annuity contracts have similar risks to those in the UK.
to the risk of an expense overrun should the market depress the level of charges which could be imposed, although for some General insurance contracts the Group has discretion over the level of management LGI offers a range of general insurance contracts, including: charges levied.
These provide cover in respect of policyholders homes, investment properties, contents, personal International life and pensions belongings and incidental liabilities which they may incur as Legal & General America LGA a property owner, occupier or private individual.
Exposure The principal products written by LGA are individual term assurance, is normally limited to the rebuilding cost of the home, the universal life insurance and smaller blocks of deferred and replacement cost of belongings and a policy limit in respect immediate annuities.
LGI uses reinsurance to manage the exposure The individual term assurances provide death benets over the to an accumulation of claims arising from any one incident, medium to long term.
The contracts have level premiums for an usually severe weather.
The catastrophe cover reinsures LGI for initial period with premiums increasing annually thereafter.
During losses between 30m and 250m 2005: 25m and 225m for the initial period, there is generally an option to convert the contract a single weather event.
After the initial period, the premium rates Motor insurance.
These contracts provide cover in respect of are not guaranteed, but cannot exceed the age related customers private cars and their liability to third parties in respect guaranteed premium.
Reinsurance is used to reduce the insurance risk on this portfolio of damage to property and injury.
Exposure is normally limited to and manage liquidity risks, through the reinsurance commission the replacement value of the vehicle, and a policy limit in respect of third party property damage.
Exposure to third party bodily received under quota share arrangements.
Reinsurance and securitisation are used to provide regulatory solvency relief injury is unlimited in accordance with statutory requirements.
including relief from regulation Triple X.
These practices lead to the Accident, sickness and unemployment ASU.
These contracts establishment of reinsurance assets on the Groups balance sheet.
provide cover in respect of continuing payment liabilities incurred The universal life insurance and deferred annuities provide a by customers when they are unable to work as a result of accident, savings element.
In addition to the savings component, the universal sickness or unemployment.
They protect predominantly mortgage life contract provides substantial death benets over the medium to payments.
Exposure is limited to the monthly payment level long term.
The savings element has a guaranteed minimum growth selected by the customer sufficient to cover the payment and rate.
LGA has exposure to loss in the event that interest rates associated costs, up to the duration limit specified in the policy.
decrease and it is unable to earn enough on the underlying assets www.
com 115 Notes to the Financial Statements cont.
ensuring that the risk acceptance policy, terms and premiums 51.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL continued both reect the expected claim cost associated with the location Healthcare.
These contracts are primarily private medical and avoid adverse selection.
Additionally, exposure and competitor insurance, which compensate customers for the costs of eligible activity is monitored by location to ensure that there is a geographic medical consultations, diagnostic tests, in-patient, day care and spread of business.
Catastrophe reinsurance cover reduces the outpatient treatment up to the limits specified in the policy.
They Groups exposure to concentrations of risk.
The level of catastrophe are mainly exposed to the underlying incidence of morbidity, cover is selected to manage the risk of an event which would be medical claims ination and advances in medical treatments.
expected to occur once in every 200 years.
These contracts primarily in run-off protect a mortgage lender should an insured property Subsidence be repossessed and subsequently sold at a loss.
Since 1993, the The incidence of subsidence can have a significant impact on the contract has included a maximum period of cover of 10 years, level of claims on household policies.
The Groups underwriting and and a cap on the maximum claim.
For business accepted prior reinsurance strategy mitigates the exposure to concentrations of risk to 1993, cover is unlimited and lasts until the insured property is arising from geographic location or adverse selection.
Unlimited motor claims Key risk factors A single motor policy can result in major multiple liability claims Weather events in extreme scenarios.
To mitigate this risk, accident excess of loss significant weather events such as windstorms, and coastal and reinsurance is in place for claims in excess of 1m 2005: 1m.
river oods can lead to significant claims.
The insurance of properties which are concentrated in high risk Sensitivity analysis areas, or an above average market share in a particular region, can Table 8 shows material sensitivities for the General insurance give rise to a concentration of insurance risk.
This risk is managed by business on pre-tax profit and equity, net of reinsurance.
Table 8 General insurance sensitivity analysis Impact on Impact on pre-tax profit equity net of net of reinsurance reinsurance 2006 2006 m m Sensitivity test Single storm event with 1 in 200 year probability 30 21 Subsidence event worst claim ratio in last 30 years 37 26 Repeat of 1990 recession on ASU DMI household accounts 52 36 5% decrease in overall claims ration 15 11 5% surplus over claims liabilities 75 For any single event with claims in excess of 30m but less than 250m, the ultimate cost to the Group would be 38.5m.
The impact of a 1 in 500 year event would exceed the catastrophe cover by approximately 100m.
116 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Supplementary Financial Statements European Embedded Value Basis Consolidated Income Statement For the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 Notes m m From continuing operations Life and pensions 16 17 1,030 901 Investment management 22 181 136 General insurance 9 14 Other operational income 23 13 41 Operating profit 1,233 1,092 Variation from longer term investment return 20 460 870 Effect of economic assumption changes 16 2 8 Property income attributable to minority interests 67 81 Corporate restructure 14 216 profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to equity holders 1,546 2,051 Tax charge on operating profit 361 314 Tax charge on other profits and losses 61 249 Tax charge on profit from ordinary activities 24 422 563 Effect of UK tax changes 25 276 Tax impact of corporate restructure 14 25 322 profit from continuing operations after tax 1,446 1,212 profit from discontinued operations 13 profit from ordinary activities after tax 1,446 1,225 profit attributable to minority interests 67 81 profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 1,379 1,144 p p Earnings per share 26 Based on operating profit from continuing operations after tax 13.45 12.02 Based on profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company 21.27 17.42 Diluted earnings per share 26 Based on operating profit from continuing operations after tax 13.36 11.74 Based on profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company 21.12 16.89 www.
com 117 Supplementary Financial Statements European Embedded Value Basis Consolidated Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2006 2006 2005 Notes m m Assets Investments 213,228 186,413 Long term in-force business asset 2,529 2,738 Other assets 4,614 5,427 220,371 194,578 Equity and liabilities Ordinary shareholders equity 28 29 7,931 6,970 Subordinated borrowings designated as equity 394 Minority interests 414 285 Total equity 8,345 7,649 Subordinated borrowings 818 415 Unallocated divisible surplus 2,178 1,894 Participating contract liabilities 19,770 20,277 Non-participating contract liabilities 183,618 158,956 Senior borrowings 1,607 1,634 Other liabilities and provisions 4,035 3,753 220,371 194,578 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense For the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 m m Fair value losses on cash ow hedges 3 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 41 22 Actuarial gains losses on dened benefit pension schemes 3 55 Actuarial gains losses on dened benefit pension schemes transferred to unallocated divisible surplus 1 22 Expense recognised directly in equity, net of tax 42 11 profit from ordinary activities after tax 1,446 1,225 Total recognised income and expense 1,404 1,214 Attributable to: Minority interests 67 81 Equity holders of the Company 1,337 1,133 118 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Supplementary Financial Statements 1.
NEW BUSINESS The supplementary financial statements have been prepared in New business premiums reect income arising from the sale of accordance with the European Embedded Value EEV Principles new contracts during the reporting period and any changes to issued in May 2004 by the European CFO Forum.
existing contracts, which were not anticipated at the outset of These supplementary financial statements have been audited the contract.
by  LLP and prepared in conjunction with In-force business comprises previously written single premium, our consulting actuaries Tillinghast Towers-Perrin and, in the US, regular premium and recurrent single premium contracts.
DWP rebates have not been treated as recurrent and are included in single premium new business when received.
COVERED BUSINESS New business contribution arising from the new business premiums written during the reporting period has been calculated The Group uses EEV methodology to value individual and group on the same economic and operating assumptions used in the life assurance, pensions and annuity business written in the UK, embedded value at the end of the financial period.
This has then Continental Europe and the US and within our UK managed been rolled forward to the end of the financial period using the pension funds company.
risk discount rate applicable at the end of the reporting period.
All other businesses are accounted for on the IFRS basis adopted The present value of new business premiums PVNBP has been in the primary financial statements.
calculated and expressed at the point of sale.
The PVNBP is There is no distinction made between insurance and investment equivalent to the total single premiums plus the discounted value contracts in the life and pensions businesses as there is under IFRS.
of regular premiums expected to be received over the term of the contracts using the same economic and operating assumptions 3.
DESCRIPTION OF METHODOLOGY used for the embedded value at the end of the financial period.
The new business margin is dened as new business contribution at The objective of EEV is to provide shareholders with more realistic the end of the reporting period divided by the PVNBP.
The premium information on the financial position and current performance of volumes and projection assumptions used to calculate the PVNBP the Group than is provided within the primary financial statements.
are the same as those used to calculate new business contribution.
The methodology requires assets of an insurance company, as reported in the primary financial statements, to be attributed 7.
PROJECTION ASSUMPTIONS between those supporting the covered business and the remainder.
The method accounts for assets in the covered business on an EEV Cash ow projections are determined using realistic assumptions basis and the remainder of the Groups assets on the IFRS basis for each component of cash ow and for each policy group.
adopted in the primary financial statements.
Future economic and investment return assumptions are based The EEV methodology recognises as profit from the covered on conditions at the end of the financial year.
Future investment business the total of: returns are projected by one of two methods.
The first method is i. cash transfers during the relevant period from the covered based on an assumed investment return attributed to assets at business to the remainder of the Groups assets: and their market value.
The second, which is used in the US, where ii.
the movement in the present value of future distributable profits the investments of that subsidiary are substantially all xed interest, to shareholders arising from the covered business over the projects the cash ows from the current portfolio of assets and relevant reporting period.
assumes an investment return on reinvestment of surplus cash ows.
The assumed discount and ination rates are consistent 4.
EMBEDDED VALUE with the investment return assumptions.
Detailed projection assumptions including, mortality, persistency, Shareholders equity on the EEV basis comprises the embedded value of morbidity and expenses, reect recent operating experience and the covered business plus the shareholders equity on other businesses, are reviewed annually.
Allowance is made for future improvements less the value included for purchased interests in long term business.
in annuitant mortality based on experience and externally The embedded value is the sum of the shareholder net worth published data.
Favourable changes in operating experience SNW and the value of the in-force business VIF.
SNW is dened as are not anticipated until the improvement in experience has those amounts, within covered business both within the LTF and held been observed.
outside the LTF but used to support long term business, which are All costs relating to the covered business, whether incurred regarded either as required capital or which represent free surplus.
in the covered business or elsewhere in the Group, are allocated The VIF is the present value of future shareholder profits to that business.
The expense assumptions used for the cash ow arising from the covered business, projected using best estimate projections therefore include the full cost of servicing this business.
assumptions, less an appropriate deduction for the cost of holding the required level of capital and the time value of financial options 8.
The projections take into account all tax which is expected to 5.
SERVICE COMPANIES be paid, based on best estimate assumptions, applying current legislation and practice together with known or expected future All services relating to the UK life and pensions business are charged changes.
This includes tax which would arise if surplus assets within on a cost recovery basis, with the exception of investment the covered business were eventually to be distributed.
The future management services provided to Legal & General Pensions benefit of certain current UK tax rules on the apportionment of Limited LGP, which are charged on an arms length fee basis.
income has not been reected.
It is expected that these rules will profits arising on the provision of these services are valued on be amended as part of the current consultation on life assurance a look through basis.
taxation, such that the benefit is not expected to be realised.
com 119 Notes to the Supplementary Financial Statements cont.
be able to continue operating on the existing basis.
ALLOWANCE FOR RISK is currently twice the level of capital at which the regulator is permitted to take control of the business.
Aggregate risks within the covered business are allowed for through the following principal mechanisms: For Legal & General Netherlands, required capital has been set at 100% of EU minimum solvency for all products which do not i. setting required capital levels with reference to both the Groups internal risk based capital models, and an assessment have any related financial options and guarantees FOGs.
For those products with FOGs, capital of between 112.5% and 130% of the strength of regulatory reserves in the covered business: ii.
allowing explicitly for the time value of financial options and of the EU minimum solvency margin has been used.
The level of capital has been determined using risk based capital techniques.
guarantees within the Groups products: and iii.
setting risk discount rates by deriving a Group level risk margin For Legal & General France, 100% of EU minimum solvency margin has been used for EV modelling purposes for all products to be applied consistently to local risk free rates.
both with and without FOGs.
The level of capital has been 10.
REQUIRED CAPITAL AND FREE SURPLUS determined using risk based capital techniques.
The contribution from new business for our overseas businesses Regulatory capital for UK life and pensions business is provided by reects an appropriate allowance for the cost of holding the assets backing the with-profits business or by the SNW.
comprises the sum of the values of the Shareholder Retained 11.
FINANCIAL OPTIONS AND GUARANTEES Capital SRC, the Sub-fund and the shareholder capital within LGP.
For UK with-profits business, the required capital is covered by In the UK, all FOGs are within the UK life and pensions business.
the surplus within the with-profits part of the fund and no effect is attributed to shareholders except for the burn-through cost, which Under the EEV Principles an allowance for time value of FOGs is required where a financial option exists which is exercisable at is described later.
This treatment is consistent with the Principles and Practices of Financial Management for this part of the fund.
the discretion of the policyholder.
These types of option principally arise within the with-profits part of the fund and their time value For UK non profit business, the required capital will be maintained at no less than the level of the EU minimum solvency is recognised within the with-profits burn-through cost described below.
Additional financial options for non profit business exist requirement.
This level, together with the margins for adverse deviation in the regulatory reserves, is, in aggregate, in excess of only for a small amount of deferred annuity business where guaranteed early retirement and cash commutation terms apply internal capital targets assessed in conjunction with the Individual Capital Adequacy ICA assessment.
when the policyholders choose their actual retirement date.
Further financial guarantees exist for non profit business, in In Society, the SRC is either required to cover EU solvency margin or is encumbered because its distribution to shareholders relation to index-linked annuities where capped or collared restrictions apply.
Due to the nature of these restrictions and the is restricted due to previous understandings with the Financial Services Authority.
It is therefore classied as required capital and manner in which they vary depending on the prevailing ination conditions, they are also treated as FOGs and a time value cost not as free surplus for the purposes of EEV reporting.
SRC is valued by assuming it is distributed from the LTF over a 20 year period recognised accordingly.
The time value of FOGs has been calculated stochastically with allowance for tax payable on distribution.
For this purpose, distribution of the SRC is restricted such that there is always using a large number of real world economic scenarios derived from assumptions consistent with the deterministic EEV assumptions sufficient SRC left to cover the EU solvency margin for in-force non profit business in Society.
and allowing for appropriate management actions where applicable.
The management action primarily relates to the setting of bonus In LGP, the shareholder capital covers the EU minimum solvency margin for the business.
Future regular and terminal bonuses on participating business within the projections are set in a manner consistent with expected The initial strains relating to new non profit business, together with the related EU solvency margin, are supported by releases future returns available on assets deemed to back the policies within the stochastic scenarios.
from existing non profit business, the SRC and LGP shareholder capital.
As a consequence, the writing of new business defers In recognising the residual value of any projected surplus assets within the with-profits part of the fund in the deterministic the release of capital from the SRC and LGP shareholder capital to free surplus.
Any assets in LGP shareholder capital in excess projection, it is assumed that terminal bonuses are increased to of those required to cover the EU minimum solvency margin are exhaust all of the assets in the part of the fund over the future treated as free surplus.
Cost of holding required capital is dened lifetime of the in-force with-profits policies.
However, under as the difference between the value of the required capital stochastic modelling, there may be some extreme economic and the present value of future releases of that capital.
For new scenarios when the total projected assets within the with-profits business, the cost of capital is taken as the difference in the value part of the fund are insufficient to pay all projected policyholder of that capital assuming it was available for release immediately claims and associated costs.
The average additional shareholder and the present value of the future releases of that capital.
cost arising from this shortfall has been included in the time value As the investment return, net of tax, on that capital is less than cost of options and guarantees and is referred to as the with-profits the risk discount rate, there is a resulting cost of capital which is burn-through cost.
reected in the value of new business.
The same economic scenarios have been used to assess The Sub-fund is also treated as required capital, because its distribution the time value of the financial guarantees for non profit to shareholders is restricted by Societys Articles of Association.
business by using the ination rate generated in each scenario.
For our UK managed pension funds business, managements The ination rate used to project index-linked annuities will be capital policy has been used to set the level of required capital.
constrained in certain real world scenarios, for example, where The balance of net assets within the UK Managed Funds business negative ination occurs but the annuity payments do not reduce is treated as free surplus.
The time value cost of FOGs allows for the For Legal & General America, the Company Action Level CAL projected average cost of these constrained payments for the of capital has been treated as required capital for modelling index-linked annuities.
It also allows for the small additional cost purposes.
The CAL is the regulatory capital level at which the of the guaranteed early retirement and cash commutation terms Company would have to take prescribed action, such as for the minority of deferred annuity business where such guarantees submission of plans to the State insurance regulator, but would have been written.
120 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 of the Groups regulatory reserves and the explicit deduction for 11.
FINANCIAL OPTIONS AND GUARANTEES continued the cost of options and guarantees, is appropriate to reect the risks within the covered business.
For these results the risk margin In the US, FOGs relate to guaranteed minimum crediting rates and surrender values on a range of contracts.
The guaranteed has been maintained at 3.0%.
A similar approach will be adopted when risk margins are surrender value of the contract is based on the accumulated value of the contract including accrued interest.
The crediting reassessed in future periods.
Key assumptions are summarised below: rates are discretionary but related to the accounting income for the amortising bond portfolio.
The majority of the guaranteed Risk free rate Derived from gross redemption yields minimum crediting rates are between 4% and 5%.
The assets backing these contracts are invested in US dollar denominated on relevant gilt portfolio Equity risk premium 3.0% UK only xed interest securities.
In the Netherlands, there are two types of guarantees which Property risk premium 2.0% UK only Risk margin 3.0% have been separately provided for: interest rate guarantees and maturity guarantees.
Certain contracts provide an interest 13.
ANALYSIS OF PROFIT rate guarantee where there is a minimum crediting rate based on the higher of 1-year Euribor and the policy guarantee rate.
Operating profit is identied at a level which reects an assumed This guarantee applies on a monthly basis.
Certain unit linked longer term level of investment return.
contracts provide a guaranteed minimum value at maturity The contribution to operating profit in a period is attributed to where the maturity amount is the higher of the fund value and four sources: a guarantee amount.
The fund values for both these contracts i. new business: are invested in Euro denominated xed interest securities.
the management of in-force business: In France, FOGs which have been separately provided for iii.
development costs: and relate to guaranteed minimum crediting rates and surrender iv.
return on shareholder net worth.
values on a range of contracts.
The guaranteed surrender value Further profit contributions arise from actual investment return of the contract is the accumulated value of the contract including differing from the assumed long term investment return investment accrued bonuses.
The bonuses are based on the accounting return variances, and from the effect of economic assumption income for the amortising bond portfolios plus income and changes.
releases from realised gains on any equity type investments.
The contribution from new business represents the value Policy liabilities equal guaranteed surrender values.
Local statutory recognised at the end of each period from new business written accounting rules require the establishment of a specic liability in that period, after allowing for the actual cost of acquiring the when the accounting income for a company is less than 125% of business and of establishing the required technical provisions and the guaranteed minimum credited returns, although this has never reserves and after making allowance for the cost of capital.
In general, the guaranteed annual bonus rates are business contributions are calculated using closing assumptions.
The contribution from in-force business is calculated using opening assumptions and comprises: 12.
RISK DISCOUNT RATE i. expected return the discount earned from the value of business in-force at the start of the year: The risk discount rate RDR is a combination of the risk free rate and a risk margin, which reects the residual risks inherent in the ii.
experience variances the variance in the actual experience over the reporting period from that assumed in the value of Groups covered businesses, after taking account of prudential margins in the statutory provisions, the required capital and the business in-force as at the start of the year: and iii.
operating assumption changes the effects of changes specic allowance for financial options and guarantees.
The risk margin has been determined based on an assessment in future assumptions, other than changes in economic assumptions from those used in valuing the business at the of the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC.
This assessment incorporates a beta for the Group, which measures the start of the year.
These changes are made prospectively from the end of the year.
correlation of movements in the Groups share price to movements in a relevant index.
Beta values therefore allow for the markets Development costs are associated with investment in building a new enterprise or exceptional development activity over a assessment of the risks inherent in the business relative to other companies in the chosen index.
The contribution from shareholder net worth comprises the The WACC is derived from the Groups cost of equity and debt, and the proportion of equity to debt in the Groups increase in embedded value based on assumptions at the start of the year in respect of: capital structure measured using market values.
Each of these three parameters should be forward looking, although informed i. encumbered assets within the covered business principally the unwind of the discount rate: by historic information.
The cost of equity is calculated as the risk free rate plus the equity risk premium for the chosen index ii.
LGP shareholder capital the expected investment return: and iii.
residual assets the expected investment return.
multiplied by the Companys beta.
Forward-looking or adjusted betas make allowance for the observed tendency for betas to Further profit contributions arise from actual investment returns differing from the assumed long term investment returns revert to 1 and therefore a weighted average of the historic beta and 1 tends to be a better estimate of the Companys beta for the investment return variances and from the effect of economic assumption changes.
We have computed the WACC using an arithmetical average of forward-looking betas against the FTSE 100 index.
Investment return variances represent the effect of actual investment performance and changes to investment policy on The cost of debt used in the WACC calculations takes account of the actual locked-in rates for our senior and subordinated long shareholder net worth and in-force business from that assumed term debt.
All debt interest attracts tax relief at a rate of 30%.
at the beginning of the period.
Whilst the WACC approach is a relatively simple and transparent Economic assumption changes comprise the effect of changes calculation to apply, subjectivity remains within a number of the in economic variables, beyond the control of management, assumptions.
Management believes that the chosen margin, including associated changes to valuation bases to the extent together with the levels of required capital, the inherent strength that they are reected in revised assumptions.
com 121 Notes to the Supplementary Financial Statements cont.
SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS Corporate restructuring On 31 December 2006, the non-linked non profit pensions and annuity business of Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Society was ceded to a new, wholly owned, reinsurance company, Legal & General Pensions Limited LGP.
The required capital and free surplus of LGP is included in the covered business.
LGP has been capitalised using 1.3bn of Society shareholder capital, 400m of this is represented by subordinated debt 200m upper tier II, 200m lower tier II and 900m by equity.
The reinsurance was effected on arms length terms resulting in an initial regulatory loss in LGP.
Further funds of 571m have been injected from Societys LTF into LGPs LTF by means of a contingent loan to cover this loss.
Prior to the capitalisation of LGP, the intra-group subordinated debt capital of 602m attributed to SRC was repaid to Group Plc and an equivalent amount was lent to Society shareholder capital on a subordinated basis 301m upper tier II, 301m lower tier II.
Overall, the corporate restructuring has increased the embedded value by 171m.
This arises from tax benets totalling 322m, which include a reversal of the adverse impact of the 2005 UK tax changes.
This is offset by an additional cost of solvency capital of 119m in LGP and other impacts of 32m which together total 151m.
The EEV impact of the net tax benets is reported within the tax section of the income statement.
The impact of the higher cost of solvency capital and other impacts is reported below operating profit and grossed up for tax at 30%.
The tax gross up of 65m is included in the tax charge.
The additional cost of solvency capital in respect of new business transferred to LGP has reduced the contribution from new business by 19m.
Implementation of changes to FSA reporting and capital rules Policy Statement 06 14 In 2006, the FSA introduced a more realistic reserving framework for certain non profit business.
As a result, there has been a reduction in the regulatory reserves required for term assurance business of 641m.
The associated financial reinsurance previously in place to finance these reserves was terminated.
The impact of these changes has been to increase the EEV operating assumption changes by 64m, and contribution from new business by 33m, due to the resulting lower capital requirements.
Review of annuity investment policy During 2006, Society undertook a review of its asset liability matching policy for annuity business.
Property assets backing annuity liabilities were replaced with corporate bonds and Society entered into ination swaps to mitigate negative ination risk.
As a result, a closer match between assets and liabilities was achieved.
Additionally, the margin within the reserves to cover an interest rate mismatch was reviewed and reduced.
EEV operating profit has increased by 18m due to the reduction in the capital requirement.
However, the EEV variation from longer term investment return is reduced by 27m due to the change in asset mix.
PRESENT VALUE OF NEW BUSINESS PREMIUMS PVNBP Present value of New Annual annual Single business premiums premiums Capitalisation premiums PVNBP margin For the year ended 31 December 2006 m m factor m m % UK 474 2,115 4.5 5,991 8,106 4.7 International 66 459 7.0 365 824 4.6 540 2,574 6,356 8,930 4.7 Present value of New Annual annual Single business premiums premiums Capitalisation premiums PVNBP margin For the year ended 31 December 2005 m m factor m m % UK 382 1,722 4.5 4,899 6,621 4.6 International 72 524 7.3 349 873 2.9 454 2,246 5,248 7,494 4.4 122 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 16.
PROFIT FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS AFTER TAX FROM COVERED BUSINESS Life and pensions Investment 1 UK International total management Total For the year ended 31 December 2006 Notes m m m m m Contribution from new business after cost of capital 380 38 418 61 479 Contribution from in-force business: expected return 323 70 393 24 417 experience variances 18 41 19 60 34 94 operating assumption changes 19 517 22 2648 Development costs 21 21 1 22 2 Contribution from shareholder net worth 146 12 158 7 165 Operating profit 874 156 1,030 151 1,181 3 Variation from longer term investment return 387 21 366 13 379 Effect of economic assumption changes 5 7 2 2 Corporate restructure 216 216 216 profit from continuing operations before tax 1,040 142 1,182 164 1,346 2 Tax 337 45 382 49 431 Tax impact of corporate restructure 322 322 322 profit from continuing operations after tax 1,025 97 1,122 115 1,237 Life and pensions Investment 1 UK International total management Total For the year ended 31 December 2005 Notes m m m m m Contribution from new business after cost of capital 306 25 331 49 380 Contribution from in-force business: expected return 294 62 356 21 377 experience variances 18 89 89 25 114 operating assumption changes 19 14 5 19 14 5 Development costs 20 20 1 21 2 Contribution from shareholder net worth 146 18 164 6 170 Operating profit 801 100 901 114 1,015 3 Variation from longer term investment return 653 53 706 35 741 Effect of economic assumption changes 3 5 8 8 profit from continuing operations before tax 1,457 158 1,615 149 1,764 Tax 421 51 472 45 517 Effect of UK tax changes 276 276 276 profit from continuing operations after tax 760 107 867 104 971 1.
For covered business, Investment management comprises managed pension funds and is included in the total Investment management result of 181m 2005: 136m.
In 2006, the contribution from shareholder net worth has been grossed up using a notional attributed tax rate of 30%.
The 2006 impact of changing the notional attributed tax rate on the shareholder net worth to 30% is to increase operating profit by 12m and decrease profit before tax, and tax, by 3m.
The contribution from shareholder net worth in 2005 has not been restated for this change in estimation technique.
If the notional attributed tax rate had been 30% in 2005, the impact would have been to increase operating profit by 14m and profit before tax, and tax, by 23m.
UK life and pensions variation from longer term investment return comprises 185m 2005: 357m relating to the value of in-force business and 202m 2005: 296m relating to shareholder net worth.
com 123 Notes to the Supplementary Financial Statements cont.
ANALYSIS OF EXPERIENCE VARIANCES Life and pensions Investment UK International total management Total For the year ended 31 December 2006 m m m m m Persistency 15 2 13 12 1 Mortality morbidity 10 9 1 1 Expenses 2 2 2 Other 44 26 70 22 92 41 19 60 34 94 2006 UK other experience variances of 44m principally comprise the impact of the release of prudent margins as more data is loaded onto the Bulk Purchase Annuity BPA administration system 33m and opening adjustments 34m primarily to reect a revision of assessments of prior and future tax.
These opening adjustments had a broadly neutral effect on the embedded value, with the positive variance here being offset by a negative variance in the contribution from shareholder net worth.
This is partially offset by differences between actual and modelled tax and an increase in deferred tax provisions -21m.
2006 International other experience variances relates primarily to the impact of Triple X nancing.
2006 Investment management other experience variances of 22m includes the effect of higher average fee rates than assumed 17m.
Life and pensions Investment UK International total management Total For the year ended 31 December 2005 m m m m m Persistency 2 2 4 15 19 Mortality morbidity 14 7 7 7 Expenses 6 1 5 2 3 Other 79 4 83 8 91 89 89 25 114 2005 UK other experience variances of 79m principally comprise the impact of the release of prudent margins as more data is loaded onto the BPA administration system 73m.
2005 Investment management other experience variances of 8m include the effect of higher average fee rates than assumed.
ANALYSIS OF OPERATING ASSUMPTION CHANGES Life and pensions Investment UK International total management Total For the year ended 31 December 2006 m m m m m Persistency 12 21 9 9 Mortality morbidity 5 7 12 12 Expenses 80 4 76 1 77 Other 102 1 101 27 128 517222648 2006 UK expenses of -80m relates to an assumed increase in future expenses in relation to the management of existing protection policies -33m and an anticipated rise in investment management costs -40m.
The latter relates to the move to new City premises in 2007 and the development of our structured solutions and US based xed income teams.
2006 UK other operating assumption changes of 102m primarily relate to the impact of PS06 14 on realistic protection reserving after the recapture of financial reinsurance 64m and changes to annuity investment policy 19m, together with a reassessment of future reserve releases as data is loaded onto the BPA administration system 23m.
2006 Investment management other operating assumption changes of 27m arise from the continuation of the ten year lapse assumption for all contracts through the extension of the modelling period 15m coupled with higher fee and income assumptions 12m.
Life and pensions Investment UK International total management Total For the year ended 31 December 2005 m m m m m Persistency 30 12 18 18 Mortality morbidity 11 11 Expenses 24 4 20 20 Other 31 14 17 14 3 14 5 19 14 5 2005 UK other operating assumption changes of -31m relate mainly to -24m of reserve strengthening in respect of endowment compensation.
2005 Investment management other operating assumption changes of 14m arise from the continuation of the ten year lapse assumption for all contracts through the extension of the modelling period.
124 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 20.
VARIATION FROM LONGER TERM INVESTMENT RETURN 2006 2005 m m Total covered business 379 741 1 Investment management 1 General insurance 7 8 Other operational income 89 121 460 870 1.
TIME VALUE OF OPTIONS AND GUARANTEES 2006 2005 m m Life and pensions UK non profit 4 21 UK with-profits 2 2 International 12 5 18 28 For UK non profit, the reduction in 2006 is primarily due to the purchase of negative ination hedges coupled with higher ination expectations resulting in a reduction in ination guarantees.
For International, the increase in 2006 arises primarily from the rise in US interest rates on universal life contracts which have a guaranteed minimum crediting rate and a guaranteed surrender value.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INCOME STATEMENT 2006 2005 m m From continuing operations Managed pension funds 151 114 Ventures 4 4 Property 6 4 Retail investments 11 7 Other external income 6 5 1 Other income 3 2 Operating profit from investment management 181 136 Variation from longer term investment return 13 35 profit on ordinary activities before tax 194 171 Tax 58 52 profit on ordinary activities after tax 136 119 Investment management comprises the managed pensions fund business on an EEV basis and other investment management business on an IFRS basis.
Other income excludes the element relating to managed pension funds on the IFRS basis.
OTHER OPERATIONAL INCOME 2006 2005 m m Shareholders other income 1 Investment return on ordinary shareholders equity 134 127 Interest expense 106 75 28 52 2 Other operations 2 5 Unallocated corporate and development expenses 13 6 13 41 1.
Investment return on ordinary shareholders equity exclude the element relating to LGP on the IFRS basis.
Principally the Regulated mortgage network and Cofunds.
com 125 Notes to the Supplementary Financial Statements cont.
ANALYSIS OF TAX profit loss Tax profit before charge before Tax tax credit tax charge 2006 2006 2005 2005 m m m m From continuing operations UK life and pensions 874 262 801 230 International life and pensions 156 51 100 33 1,030 313 901 263 Investment management 181 54 136 42 General insurance 9 2 14 4 Other operational income 13 8 41 5 Operating profit 1,233 361 1,092 314 Variation from longer term investment return 460 128 870 246 Effect of economic assumption changes 22 8 3 Property income attributable to minority interests 67 81 Corporate restructure 216 65 profit from continuing operations before tax Tax 1,546 422 2,051 563 25.
TAX IMPACT OF CORPORATE RESTRUCTURE EFFECT OF UK TAX CHANGES The tax benefit from the corporate restructure arose primarily from the reversal of the effect of the UK tax changes reported in 2005.
The tax charge in 2005 represented a one-off reduction in the embedded value arising from a change in tax law, which revised the way in which investment return was apportioned between categories of businesses for the purposes of computing taxable profits earned from writing pensions business.
126 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006
