Glossary 2D, 3D entitlement production costs per barrel two three dimensional in relation to with reference to reserves or production, that cost-of-sales, excluding those relating to nonseismic surveys share of the gross amount to which the Group E&P operations, excluding any hedging gains is entitled after taking account of the State share or losses, before deduction of depreciation, APSS under the terms of the relevant PSA or PSC and adjusted for movements in underlift Annual Profit Sharing Scheme overlift, divided by working interest production.
FOB Excluding overlift and underlift movements bareboat charter free on board allows the measure to be based on production a type of ship charter under which the rather than sales barrels, which fluctuate charterer hires the vessel without a crew HOEC according to the timing of liftings and bears all the expenses of operation Hindustan Oil Exploration Company Limited, an independent Indian E&P company listed production growth bbl inter alia on the Mumbai stock exchange.
the year-on-year growth in Group working barrel of oil HOEC is operator of fields in India interest production the definition of which excludes the Initial legacy Oil in the Burun bcf HSEC field in Turkmenistan which is attributable to billion cubic feet Health, Safety, Environment & Community the state and falls outside the terms of the PSA boe Initial Oil Gas barrel of oil equivalent the initial share of production from the Burun PSA, PSC field in Turkmenistan which is delivered to production sharing agreement contract bopd the state and falls outside the production barrels of oil per day sharing provisions of the PSA.
It represents reserves growth per share the production which the original Burren closing P P reserves bbls divided by the Burren or the Group consortium inherited upon taking over the closing number of shares in issue, as a ratio the Company and its subsidiaries field in 1997, after applying a decline factor of opening P P reserves bbls divided by the opening number of shares in issue.
This ratio bwpd internal reserves replacement ratio includes acquisitions and divestments of barrels of water per day additions to working interest reserves arising reserves, and is calculated on a rolling three from revisions and discoveries, divided by year basis.
It is a measure of the Groups ability the Company working interest production.
The ratio is to grow its reserves without resorting to Burren Energy plc calculated on a rolling three year historic increasing its share capital base, and is one basis.
This ratio excludes acquisitions and of the performance criteria in the Groups cash flow after development expenditure divestments of reserves so as to provide a Performance Share Plan, the awards under which net Cash from Operating Activities i. e. after measure of internally generated reserves vest over a three year performance period tax paid, less purchases of property, plant replacement.
The reason for using a rolling and equipment which relate to expenditure three year basis of calculation is that internally shut-in incurred to develop P P reserves i. e. excluding generated additions to reserves usually refers to an existing well which is closed expenditure in respect of exploration activities involve a project timescale in excess of and not producing and licence acquisition, and any non E&P one year related expenditure.
This gives a measure SNPC 2 of discretionary cash flow available to the km km Socit Nationale des Ptroles Congolais: Group after investment in the development kilometre square kilometres the state-owned oil company of Congo of its existing reserves KPI underlift Caspian key performance indicator produced crude oil representing the Groups the countries of the Former Soviet Union export entitlement which is awaiting lifting bordering the Caspian Sea including Maurel & Prom southern Russia an independent French oil exploration and water injection production company quoted on Euronext a technique whereby water is pumped into Congo stock exchange.
Maurel & Prom is operator the reservoir to maintain reservoir pressure the Republic of Congo Brazzaville of the fields in Congo in which Burren has and enhance oil recovery an interest discount to Brent working interest the weighted average price discount to Brent mcfd with reference to reserves or production, that taken on the date of price determination by thousand cubic feet per day share of the gross amount to which the Group cargo at which the Groups crude oil is sold is entitled before taking account of the state mcm share under the terms of the PSA or PSC earnings per share growth million cubic metres calculated after deduction of initial oil or gas the annual increase in basic earnings per share, as shown in the financial statements P P workover Proven and Probable reserves major repairs or modifications to a well which Eni restore or enhance production Eni Congo SA Eni, a wholly owned subsidiary of Italian group Eni S. p. A.
64 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Click to return to contents drilling rig at night.
photograph by stuart Holmes, #633& & &3 : 1-$ annual report and accounts 2006 www.
co. uk Officers and professional advisers board oF direCtors banKers auditors and tax advisers executive the royal bank of scotland deloitte & touche llp atul Gupta 54 lime street Hill House Finian osullivan london ec3 3tr 1 little new street andrew rose london ec4a 3tr natixis non-executive 45, rue sainte-dominique FinanCial publiC relations Keith Henry, chairman 75007 paris pelham public relations ltd Brian lavers France no 1 cornhill Michael calvey london alan cole soliCitors ec3V 3nd pierre lasry travers smith andrei pannikov 10 snow Hill petroleuM Consultants london ec1a 2al ryder scott Company, l. p. burren energy is an independent oil and gas exploration CoMpany seCretary 1100 louisiana, suite 3800 Hywel John FinanCial advisers Houston and production group with assets in four geographic regions: and stoCKbroKers texas 77002-5218 registered oFFiCe ubs investment bank usa the caspian, West africa, the Middle east north africa Kierran cross 1 Finsbury avenue 2nd Floor london ec2M 2pp registrars and India.
11 strand Computershare investor london Wc2n 5Hr KbC peel Hunt ltd services plc 111 old Broad street the pavilions our objectives are to grow our production and reserve base registered number 3492720 london ec2n 1pn Bridgwater road Bristol Bs99 7nH by further development of our existing fields, exploring our existing concessions and acquiring new assets with proven reserves and production.
Burrens shares are listed on the london stock exchange symbol: Bur.
l and are a constituent of the F tse 250 Index.
note era Silk is unique in its class in Britain.
It is the only coated paper & board certain sections of this annual report, in particular the Business review, may contain forward-looking range actually made from 50% recycled British waste.
the waste is collected statements concerning the financial condition and results of operations of Burren.
Forward-looking locally, mostly within a radius of 100 miles of the mill in Kent.
using 100% statements are statements of future expectations that are based on managements current expectations genuine printed waste in the recycling process means helping reduce the and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual pressure on uK landfill sites.
By collecting local waste paper it helps minimise results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements.
road transport is kept to a minimum, and close no assurances can be given as to future results, levels of activity and achievements and actual results, monitoring of all supplies of raw material ensure the highest standards.
levels of activity and achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied by any forwardlooking statements contained in this report.
Burren does not undertake any obligation to publicly update revive uncoated uses 100% post-consumer recycled material and the Click to return to contents or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information.
recycled papers used in this grade are mainly elemental chlorine Free ecF.
burren energy plc annual report and aCCounts 2006 burren energy plC burren energy plC annual report and accounts 2006 Kierran Cross 2nd Floor 11 strand london WC2n 5Hr t. 44 0 20 7484 1900 F. 44 0 20 7484 1910 www.
co. uk Click to return to contents
