11448 R&A 2006 Back 1 27 3 07 14:22 Page 140 140 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial information 26.
Related parties continued Bonita Trust The Bonita Trust was established in Gibraltar in 2004 effectively by the Groups Principal Shareholders to benefit the communities where the Group and its employees and service providers operate.
The Bonita Trust is operated by an independent professional trustee.
The Bonita Trust has philanthropic objectives and supports medical, cultural and educational programmes, principally directed to benefit the communities of Gibraltar, India and the UK.
In addition, employees of PartyGaming and their families are a beneficiary class of The Bonita Trust.
In December 2006, The Bonita Trust made or committed to make payments to certain individuals that were employed or had previously been employed by the Group.
These payments were made independently of the Group and were over and above the amounts that the Board had already determined should be paid by the Group to those employees and former employees.
However, as these payments were based primarily on the Companys share price, the Board considers these to fall under the criteria for share-based payments under IFRS 2 and in the year to 31 December 2006 has charged an amount to the income statement totalling $26.8 million, as if such amounts had been paid by the Group itself.
A corresponding amount has been recorded as a capital contribution in the Groups balance sheet.
Of the $26.8 million, $9.4 million relates to Discontinued operations.
The Group has been informed that during 2006 The Bonita Trust made donations and other payments in respect of its other objectives totalling $8.4 million 2005: nil.
Disclosure of these payments has been made as it is possible that the Groups name may be linked with them.
It is emphasised that neither The Bonita Trust nor any person or entity connected with The Bonita Trust sought any advice from, the Group, its Directors or key management in deciding whether these payments should be made.
In addition, none of the payments were made in respect of any obligations incurred, or services received, by the Group, nor did they fall within the scope of IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments.
Consequently, no entries have been made to the Groups financial statements in respect of these payments.
Further details on The Bonita Trust can be found at www.
Share-based payments The Group has designed a Share Option Plan the Plan as a reward and retention incentive for employees and selfemployed consultants of the Group, including the Executive Directors the Participants.
Certain individuals have nil-cost option arrangements under their service contracts, which were formally granted under the Plan during the year.
During the year, 136.2 million options over the share capital were granted to Participants, representing 3.4% of the total issued share capital.
Each option takes the form of a right, exercisable at nil-cost, to acquire shares in the Company.
Options granted under the share option scheme during the period generally vest in instalments over a four to five year period.
IFRS requires that the fair value of the options be amortised through the income statement over the life of the options.
In calculating fair value the Group has used the binomial options pricing model.
An appropriate discount has been applied to reflect the fact that dividends are not paid on options that have not vested or have vested and have not been exercised.
There are no performance conditions attached to options issued by the Group.
Details of modifications to share options are set out in note 4.
Share options 2006 2005 Number Number Year ended 31 December million million Outstanding at beginning of period 126.7 40.0 Options granted during the period 136.2 119.0 Options lapsed during the period 39.9 1.0 Exercised during the period 52.7 31.3 Outstanding at end of period 170.3 126.7 Exercisable at the end of period 3.6 4.9 Weighted average share price for options exercised 1.01 1.18 Weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding 1,077 days 756 days
