11448 R&A 2006 mid 2 27 3 07 14:20 Page 108 108 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the shareholders of PartyGaming Plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement the Company financial statements the financial reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions statements of PartyGaming Plc for the year ended of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review 31 December 2006 which comprises the Group Income by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance not required to consider whether the Boards statements Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cashflow on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statement opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 32. governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
These financial statements have been prepared under We read the Directors Report and the other information the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also contained in the Annual Report for the above period audited the information in the Directors Remuneration described in the contents section, including the unaudited Report that is described as having been audited.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors statements.
We consider the implications for our report The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
and IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our report has been prepared pursuant to the terms of our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
No person is Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and entitled to rely on this report unless such a person is a person the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be entitled to rely upon this report by virtue of the terms of our audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory engagement letter or has been expressly authorised to do requirements and International Standards on Auditing so by our prior written consent.
Save as above, we do not UK and Ireland.
PartyGaming Plc has complied with the accept responsibility for this report to any other person or for requirements of rules 9.8.
8 of the Listing Rules any other purpose and we hereby expressly disclaim any of the UK Financial Services Authority the Listing Rules and all such liability.
and Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985 in preparing its Annual Report, as if it was incorporated in the Basis of audit opinion United Kingdom.
As auditors, we have agreed that our We conducted our audit in accordance with International responsibilities in relation to the Annual Report will be those Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the as set out below.
An audit includes examination, We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and statements give a true and fair view and whether the disclosures in the financial statements and the part of financial statements have been properly prepared in the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts judgments made by the Directors in the preparation Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930, and the of the financial statements, and of whether the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups has been properly prepared in accordance with Schedule and Companys circumstances, consistently applied 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, and adequately disclosed.
in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper the information and explanations which we considered accounting records, if we have not received all the necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to information and explanations we require for our audit, or if give reasonable assurance that the financial statements information specified by the listing rules and Gibraltar and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be legislation is not disclosed.
audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
