11448 R&A 2006 Back 1 27 3 07 14:21 Page 114 114 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial information 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements comply with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930.
Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006 will be made available following the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with those International Financial Reporting Standards including International Accounting Standards IASs and interpretations, collectively IFRS, published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB which have been adopted by the European Commission and endorsed for use in the EU for the purposes of the Groups full year financial statements.
The following interpretations, issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the Group with no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
IFRIC 5 Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market: waste electrical and electronic equipment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 December 2005.
The following standards and interpretations, issued by the IASB or IFRIC, have not been adopted by the Group and the Group is currently assessing the impact these standards and interpretations will have on the presentation of its consolidated results in future periods: IFRS 8 Operating segments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under lAS 29 Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2006.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Accounting for share-based payments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006.
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006.
IFR1C 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment effective for annual periods beginning on or after I November 2006.
IFRIC 11 Group and treasury share transactions effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
IFRS 8 contains requirements for the disclosure of information about an entitys operating segments and also about the entitys products and services, the geographical areas in which it operates, and its major customers.
The standard is concerned only with disclosure and replaces lAS 14 Segment reporting.
The Group is currently assessing the impact this standard will have on the presentation of its consolidated results.
11448 R&A 2006 Back 1 27 3 07 14:21 Page 115 115 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and judgements that affect the application of policies and reported amounts.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Included in this note are accounting policies which cover areas that the Directors consider require estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
These policies together with references to the related notes to the financial information can be found below: Taxation note 6 Intangible assets and impairment of goodwill note 10 Payment processor receivables note 14 Provisions notes 14 and 20 Regulatory compliance and contingent liabilities note 22 Share-based payments note 27 Basis of accounting The Consolidated Financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention other than for the valuation of certain financial instruments.
The functional currency used in the preparation of this Consolidated Financial Statements is United States Dollars as is the presentation currency.
The functional currency is the currency in which the parent company operates and it reflects the economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances of the Group.
A small minority of Group companies operate in Pounds Sterling, Indian Rupees, Euros and Bulgarian Lev but the amounts involved are not material.
Assets, liabilities and expenses of the Group are translated from Pounds Sterling, Euros, Indian Rupees and Bulgarian Lev into US dollars as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate existing at the balance sheet date: income and expenses are translated at the exchange rates existing at the dates of the transactions or at a rate that approximates the actual exchange rates: equity items other than the net profit or loss for the period that are included within retained earnings are translated at the closing rate existing at the balance sheet date: and any exchange differences arising from the above translations are recognised in the income statement.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are those companies controlled, directly or indirectly by PartyGaming Plc.
Control exists where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Except as noted below, subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of acquisition i. e. the date on which control of the subsidiary effectively commences to the date of disposal i. e. the date on which control over the subsidiary effectively ceases.
Except as noted below, the financial information of subsidiaries is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements using the acquisition method of accounting.
On the date of acquisition the assets and liabilities of the relevant subsidiaries are measured at their fair values.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Under section 10 2 of the Gibraltar Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
11448 R&A 2006 Back 1 27 3 07 14:21 Page 116 116 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial information 1.
Accounting policies continued Accounting for the Companys acquisition of the controlling interest in PartyGaming Holdings Limited The Companys controlling interest in its directly held, wholly owned, subsidiary PartyGaming Holdings Limited formerly Headwall Ventures Limited was acquired through a transaction under common control, as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The Directors note that transactions under common control are outside the scope of IFRS 3 and that there is no guidance elsewhere in IFRS covering such transactions.
IFRS contain specific guidance to be followed where a transaction falls outside the scope of IFRS.
This guidance is included at paragraphs 10 to 12 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
This requires, inter alia, that where IFRS does not include guidance for a particular issue, the Directors may also consider the most recent pronouncements of other standard setting bodies that use a similar conceptual framework to develop accounting standards.
In this regard, it is noted that the United States Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB has issued an accounting standard covering business combinations FAS 141 that is similar in a number of respects to IFRS 3.
Further there is currently a major project being run jointly by the IASB and FASB to converge IFRS and US GAAP.
In contrast to IFRS 3, FAS 141 does include, as an Appendix, limited accounting guidance for transactions under common control which, as with IFRS 3, are outside the scope of that accounting standard.
The guidance contained in FAS 141 indicates that a form of accounting that is similar to pooling of interests accounting, which was previously set out in Accounting Principles Board APB Opinion 16, may be used when accounting for transactions under common control.
Having considered the requirements of IAS 8, and the guidance included within FAS 141, it is considered appropriate to use a form of accounting which is similar to pooling of interests when dealing with the transaction in which the Company acquired its controlling interest in PartyGaming Holdings Limited.
Associates Where the Group has the power to exercise significant influence over but not control the financial and operating policy decisions of another entity, it is classified as an associate.
Associates are initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profits and losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement, except that losses in excess of the Groups investment in the associate are not recognised unless there is an obligation to make good those losses.
Profits and losses arising on transactions between the Group and its associates are recognised only to the extent of unrelated investors interests in the associate.
The investors share in the associates profits and losses resulting from these transactions is eliminated against the carrying value of the associate.
Any premium paid for an associate above the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is capitalised and included in the carrying amount of the associate.
The carrying amount of the associate is tested under IAS 36 for impairment wherever the application of the requirements of IAS 39 indicate that the carrying value of the associate might be impaired.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries held by the Company are carried at cost less any impairment in value.
Foreign currency Transactions entered into by Group entities in a currency other than the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates the Functional Currency are recorded at the rate ruling when the transaction occurs.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into the Groups functional and presentational currency US dollars at exchange rates ruling at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to US dollars at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency differences are recognised directly in equity, and are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the foreign currency translation reserve is transferred to the income statement.
11448 R&A 2006 Back 1 27 3 07 14:21 Page 117 117 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Revenue Revenue from online gaming, comprising poker, casino and white label skins third-party entities that use the Groups platform and certain services, is recognised in the accounting periods in which the gaming transactions occur.
Poker and Emerging Games revenue represents the commission charged or tournament entry fees where the player has concluded his her participation in the tournament.
Casino and Sports Betting revenue represents net house win adjusted for the fair market value of gains and losses on open betting positions.
Revenue in respect of white label skin arrangements is the net commission invoiced.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and is net of certain promotional bonuses.
Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Segment information A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged either in providing products or services business segment, or products or services within a particular economic environment geographical segment.
Taxation Income tax expense represents the sum of the Directors best estimate of taxation exposures and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
It is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences other than where IAS 12 Income Taxes contains specific examples.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to profit or loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes directly attributable costs incurred in bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use, including professional fees.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
11448 R&A 2006 Back 1 27 3 07 14:21 Page 118 118 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial information 1.
Accounting policies continued Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost, less estimated residual values, of all property, plant and equipment, evenly over their expected useful lives.
It is calculated at the following rates: Leasehold improvements over length of lease Plant, machinery, computer equipment 33% per annum Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment, vehicles 20% per annum Where an item of property, plant or equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised where it is incurred to replace a component of an item of plant, property or equipment where that item is accounted for separately including major inspection and overhaul.
All other subsequent expenditure is expensed as incurred, unless it increases the future economic benefits to be derived from that item of plant, property and equipment.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups share of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity.
For acquisitions where the agreement date is on or after 31 March 2004, goodwill is not amortised and is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on earlier acquisitions was being amortised over its estimated useful life of 20 years.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the unamortised balance of goodwill at 31 December 2004 was frozen and reviewed for impairment, and will be reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Intangible assets Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The identified intangibles are amortised over the useful economic life of the assets.
For acquisitions during the year, the useful economic life of the intangible assets acquired is estimated to be between 18 months and five years.
Internally generated assets research and development expenditure Expenditure incurred on development activities, including the Groups software development, is capitalised only where the expenditure will lead to new or substantially improved products or processes, the products or processes are technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
All other development expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only where it clearly increases the economic benefits to be derived from the asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure, including that incurred in order to maintain the related intangible assets current level of performance, is expensed as incurred.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cashflows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cashflows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cashflows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
11448 R&A 2006 Back 1 27 3 07 14:21 Page 119 119 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and balances with financial institutions.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
They include unrestricted short-term bank deposits originally purchased with maturities of three months or less.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at amortised cost.
Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based, for those share options which contain only non-market vesting conditions, on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a suitable option pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the goods or services received and the liability incurred are measured at the fair value of the liability.
Up to the point at which the liability is settled, the fair value of the liability is re-measured at each reporting date and at the date of settlement, with changes being recorded in the income statement.
The Group records the expense based on the fair value of the share-based payments on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For cash payments made by The Bonita Trust, the charge is recorded when the Trustees commit to make the payment.
Where equity instruments of the parent company or a subsidiary are transferred, or cash payments based on the companys or a subsidiarys share price are made, by shareholder s or entities that are effectively controlled by one or more shareholder s, the transaction is accounted for as a share-based payment, unless the transfer or payment is clearly for a purpose other than payment for goods or services supplied to the Group.
Where equity instruments are transferred by one or more shareholder s, the amount recorded in reserves is included in the share-based payment reserve.
Where a cash payment is made, this is recorded as a capital contribution.
Treasury shares The consideration paid or received for the purchase or sale of treasury shares is recognised directly in equity.
The cost of treasury shares held is presented as a separate reserve.
Any excess of the consideration received on the sale of treasury shares over the weighted average cost of the shares sold is credited to the share premium account.
Provisions and contingent liabilities The Group recognises a provision in the balance sheet when it has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Where the Group has a possible obligation as a result of a past event that may, but probably will not, result in an outflow of economic benefits, no provision is made.
Disclosures are made of the contingent liability including, where practicable, an estimate of the financial effect, uncertainties relating to the amount or timing of outflow of resources, and the possibility of any reimbursement.
Where time value is material, the amount of the related provision is calculated by discounting the cashflows at a pre-tax rate that reflects market assessments of the time value of money and any risks specific to the liability.
