11448 R&A 2006 mid 1 27 3 07 14:14 Page 105 105 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Governance Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Group and parent company financial statements records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at Company law requires the Directors to prepare such any time the financial position of the Company, for financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the Gibraltar safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 and the and for the preparation of a Directors Report which Gibraltar Companies Act 1930. complies with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts statements present fairly for each financial year the Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930, and a Groups and the Companys financial position, financial Directors Remuneration Report which complies with the performance and cashflows.
This requires the faithful requirements of the UK Companies Act 1985. representation of the effects of transactions, other events Financial statements are published on the Groups website and conditions in accordance with the definitions and in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and governing the preparation and dissemination of financial expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards statements, which may vary from legislation in other Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the all applicable IFRS.
A fair presentation also requires the financial statements contained therein.
Directors to: The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report consistently select and apply appropriate and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to accounting policies: prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance present information, including accounting policies, in a with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, and manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and have also chosen to prepare financial statements for the understandable information: and Company in accordance with IFRS.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
11448 R&A 2006 mid 1 27 3 07 14:15 Page 106 From our origins... 11448 R&A 2006 mid 1 27 3 07 14:15 Page 107... to the orient Asian games At PartyGaming we are always looking to the horizon for new opportunities.
The Far East remains, as yet, an untapped market but one with considerable potential.
We hope to make good progress in the region in 2007.
