11448 R&A 2006 Back 1 27 3 07 14:21 Page 124 124 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial information 3.
Reorganisation costs continued During the year, reorganisation costs totalling $250.4 million were incurred.
Of this amount, $243.2 million related to reorganisation costs arising from the decision to terminate all real money games to customers in the US following the enactment of the UIGEA and has been included in Discontinued operations.
Due to the significance of Discontinued operations on the business, costs relating to the reorganisation have been disclosed as a separate line item within the income statement.
The primary components of these reorganisation costs related to the consequent impairment of intangible assets, principally Empire Poker, totalling $115.5 million: provisions made in respect of potential payment processor bad debts of $63.9 million are detailed in note 14: the write-off of committed marketing expenditures of $32.3 million relating to contracts entered into before the enactment of the UIGEA for which no benefit to the Group arises: impairment of technology licences relating to onerous contracts: and redundancy and other costs totalling $17.0 million.
3. a IPO-related expenses The 2005 total IPO-related expenses were $88.0 million of which the Company incurred $22.6 million.
Given that no new money was being raised for the Company, the IPO-related expenses were apportioned between the selling shareholders and the Company based on contractual arrangements.
There were no IPO-related expenses incurred in 2006.
3. b Skin-related settlement costs At the time of the IPO, the Group made it clear that it would seek to change the basis of its relationships with its skins partners, the rationale for them having diminished following the Groups rapid expansion since 2003.
In November 2005, the Group announced the acquisition of the player database and intellectual property of MultiPoker for US$14.5 million in cash.
MultiPoker was a leader in online poker in Scandinavia with more than 255,000 registered players.
The Group also announced the termination of its skin arrangement with IntertopsPoker.
com which has since become an affiliate of PartyPoker, allowing PartyPoker to market its services to IntertopsPoker.
At the same time the Group announced that it had agreed to terminate its skin arrangement with Coral Eurobet.
Also in November 2005, the Group announced that it was in discussions regarding a possible offer to acquire the business and assets of Empire Online Limited EOL.
Those discussions were terminated on 21 November 2005 and EOL announced that it was proposing to commence legal proceedings against the Group for, inter alia, breach of contract following the separation of PartyPoker from the rest of the Groups skins.
On 14 February 2006, the Group announced that it had agreed to acquire the business and assets of EmpirePoker.
com, its last remaining skin, from EOL as well as some other associated assets, for a total cash consideration of $250 million.
As part of the transaction, EOL agreed to withdraw all legal claims against the Group.
As required under International Financial Reporting Standards, a non-recurring charge of $145.8 million was included in the 2005 financial year within administrative expenses to reflect the settlement of disputes arising from the separation of PartyPoker players from EmpirePoker and all of the other third-party skins.
Share-based payments Prior to flotation, the founding shareholders established a share option plan for the benefit of the current and future workforce.
Under the terms of the plan, employees were granted a number of nil-cost options to be satisfied by existing shares which had been issued to a dedicated employee trust.
As such, the exercise of these options had no dilutive effect on shareholders who subscribed at the IPO and will have no cash impact on the Company.
IFRS requires that the fair value of the options be amortised through the income statement over the life of the options.
The share-based payments also reflect payments made by the Bonita Trust to certain employees see note 26.
As a result there is a charge of $113.9 million 2005: $65.6 million, which has been included within the income statement in the period.
