11448 R&A 2006 Back 2 27 3 07 14:43 Page 150 150 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Other information Notice of AGM Notice is hereby given that the 2007 Annual General Meeting of PartyGaming Plc will be held on Thursday 10 May 2007 at 11.00 a. m. at the Caleta Hotel, Catalan Bay, Gibraltar to consider the following business with the exception of Resolution 7, which is a Special Resolution, all Resolutions are proposed as Ordinary Resolutions.
All resolutions will be decided on a poll : 1.
To receive the financial statements, Directors Report and Auditors Report for the year ended 31 December 2006.
To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2006.
To re-appoint BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Limited as the Companys auditors with BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Limited acting as the auditor for the purposes of section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999.
To authorise the Directors to set the auditors remuneration.
To re-appoint Mitch Garber as a Director.
To re-appoint Rod Perry as a Director.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 79 of the Companies Act 1930 of ordinary shares of 0.0015 pence each of the Company Shares provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 411,519,384: b the minimum price that may be paid for any such Share is 0.0015 pence, the nominal value of a Share: c the maximum price that may be paid for any such Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is contracted to be purchased: and d the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date of the AGM of the Company in 2008 or, if earlier, 10 November 2008: but a contract for purchase may be made before such expiry, that will or may be executed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of ordinary shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board of Directors David Abdoo General Counsel and Company Secretary PartyGaming Plc 711 Europort Gibraltar 21 March, 2007 Notes: 1.
General The Notice of AGM is an important document.
If there is anything you do not understand then you should consult with the appropriate professional adviser.
If you have any questions regarding how to attend and or vote at the AGM then please contact the Registrar.
If you have recently sold all of your PartyGaming Shares and or Depositary Interests then please send this document and the enclosed forms to the person who sold the Shares Depositary Interests for you.
They can then send them to the new owner of the Shares Depositary Interests.
References to times in the Notice are to the time in Gibraltar which is one hour ahead of British Summer Time BST.
The business of the meeting is set out in the AGM notice and a summary of and rationale for each resolution is set out in the Corporate Governance section of the 2006 Annual Report.
Biographies of Messrs. Garber and Perry are set out in the Board of Directors section of this Annual Report.
The Board unanimously recommends the re-appointment of these Directors for the reasons set out in the Directors Report and the Corporate Governance section of the 2006 Annual Report.
Right of attendance 2.1 Shareholders To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must be a Shareholder of the Company holding Shares entered on the Companys register of members by 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 8 May 2007.
If you are planning on attending the AGM the Company would be grateful if you could also return the enclosed attendance card.
This assists us in ensuring we have sufficient seating and refreshments for those planning to attend.
2.2 Depositary Interest Holders To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must be entered on the Companys register of Depositary Interests by 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 8 May 2007 and bring to the AGM a letter of corporate representation validly executed on behalf of the Depositary.
A letter of corporate representation can be obtained from the Depositary.
Voting 3.1 Shareholders Shareholders may attend the AGM in person and vote on a show of hands or on a poll.
A Shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may also appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, vote in his her place.
A proxy need not be a Shareholder of the Company.
A proxy may demand or join in demanding a poll but has no right to speak at the meeting, except with the permission of the Chairman.
A proxy form may be submitted in hard copy form by post or courier or electronically via the www.
Hard copy proxy forms must be completed by or on behalf of the Shareholder.
If the Shareholder is a corporation then the proxy form must be executed by a duly authorised person or under its common seal or in a manner authorised by its constitution.
A proxy form is enclosed with the Annual Report.
To be valid, completed proxy forms must be returned to The Registrar, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU to be received no later than 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 8 May 2007.
Shareholders wishing to submit proxy forms electronically should visit the www.
com website and select the Annual General Meeting tab on the left hand side of the page.
To be valid electronic proxy instructions must be received by The Registrar no later than 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 8 May 2007.
3.2 Depositary Interest Holders Depositary Interest Holders may attend in person and vote on a show of hands or on a poll if the Depositary has appointed them a corporate representative see section 2.2 above].
Depositary Interest Holders not wishing to attend the AGM but wishing to vote in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM can do so by instructing the Depositary.
This may be done in one of two ways: i Depositary Interest Holders who are CREST members may give such an instruction utilising the CREST electronic voting service in accordance with the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal Depositary Holders or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for an instruction made by CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST proxy instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos requirements and must contain information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, in order to be valid, must be transmitted so as to be received by the Depositarys agent, ID RA10 by 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 7 May 2007.
The time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host from which the Depositarys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Depositary may treat as invalid a CREST voting instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
Please refer to the CREST Manual for further guidance.
11448 R&A 2006 Back 2 27 3 07 14:43 Page 152 152 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Other information Notice of AGM ii Depositary Interest Holders who cannot give voting instructions via CREST should complete the enclosed form of direction and submit it to the Depositary.
If the Depositary Interest Holder is a corporation then the form of direction must be executed by a duly authorised person or under its common seal or in a manner authorised by its constitution.
To be valid forms of direction must be received by the Depositary no later than 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 7 May 2007.
PartyGaming employees PartyGaming employees who have exercised their PartyGaming options and have retained all some of the resultant Shares and hold these Shares through the PartyGaming Nominee Account Service, Capita IRG Trustee Nominees Limited and wish to attend the AGM should request Capita IRG Trustee Nominees Limited to appoint them as a corporate representative.
This is done by completing the Nominee Account Instruction form enclosed with their Annual Report.
Whether an eligible employee wishes to attend the AGM or not, they are recommended to complete the Nominee Account Instruction form and send it to The Registrar, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, United Kingdom, to be received no later than 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 7 May 2007.
Documents for inspection Copies of the following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office at 711 Europort, Gibraltar.
These documents will also be available for inspection at the Caleta Hotel, Catalan Bay, Gibraltar on the day of the meeting from 10.30 a. m. until the conclusion of the meeting: Memorandum and Articles of Association: Listing Particulars: Executive Directors Service Agreements: Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment: The signed Annual Report for the year ended 2006: and Register of Members.
