Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the financial statements These are the Groups first consolidated financial statements The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above prepared in accordance with IFRS.
requirements in preparing the financial statements, and having a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the applicable law and regulations.
UK Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial unaware: and the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European to have taken as directors to make themselves aware of any Union EU and have elected to prepare the parent company relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's financial statements in accordance with UK accounting standards.
auditors are aware of that information.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group or the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are also responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Group and of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate Governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
A copy of the financial statements of the Company is posted on the Cable and Wireless plc website www.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the website.
Information published on the Internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
66 2005 06 Annual report 68 Independent auditors report Consolidated 69 Consolidated income statement financial 70 Consolidated balance sheet 71 Consolidated statement of statements recognised income and expenses 72 Consolidated cash flow statement 73 Notes to the financial statements 2005 06 Annual report 67 Consolidated financial statements
