Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 1 General information Cable and Wireless plc the Company and its subsidiaries together Cable & Wireless or the Group is an international telecommunications company, incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
It operates through two standalone businesses International and UK.
The International business operates integrated telecommunications companies in 33 countries offering mobile, broadband, domestic and international fixed line services to residential and business customers, with principal operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and the Channel Islands.
The UK business provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services across the UK, US, continental Europe and Asia, and consumer and small business broadband services in the UK through Bulldog.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation As required by EU regulation, these consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRS.
Adopted IFRS are similar to IFRS issued by the IASB, except for certain provisions concerning hedge accounting that have no impact on the financial statements of the Group and therefore these financial statements comply with IFRS.
These are the Groups first consolidated financial statements prepared under IFRS and IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has been applied.
An explanation of how the transition to IFRS has affected the reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group is provided in note 42.
The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except for those financial instruments held for trading which includes derivatives or classified as available for sale or as fair value through the income statement.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the coming year are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently, to the extent required by IFRS 1 see note 2.2 below, to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 April 2004 for the purposes of the transition to IFRS.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
2.2 Application of IFRS 1 The Group established its IFRS accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2006 and applied these standards retrospectively to determine the IFRS opening balance sheet at its date of transition, 1 April 2004, except where permitted or required by IFRS 1 or other applicable standards.
On transition to IFRS, the Group recognised all assets and liabilities as required by IFRS and derecognised all assets and liabilities not permitted by IFRS.
Assets and liabilities were measured in accordance with IFRS.
Except where noted below, IFRS recognition and measurement principles were applied retrospectively.
The impact of transition from UK GAAP to IFRS on the Groups shareholders funds as at 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005, and on the Groups income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005 is discussed in note 42.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Directors have elected to adopt IAS 32 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation, IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement and IFRS 4 Insurance contracts from 1 April 2005.
The Group has continued to account for and disclose financial 2005 06 Annual report 73 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 instruments in accordance with FRS 4 Capital instruments and FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures for periods ending before that date.
The impact of the adoption of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 is set out in note 43.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Directors have elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business combinations to business combinations that occurred before the date of transition.
Business combinations that occurred before the date of transition are accounted for in accordance with UK GAAP.
The Group had no unamortised positive goodwill recognised under UK GAAP as at 1 April 2004, so no review of the goodwill for compliance with the IFRS measurement principles was necessary.
Negative goodwill has been credited to reserves on transition as it is not carried on the balance sheet under IFRS 3.
The Directors have elected to take advantage of the IFRS 1 exemption from the provisions of IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates for the cumulative translation differences that existed at the date of IFRS transition.
Consequently, cumulative translation differences on retranslation of subsidiaries net assets as at 1 April 2004 have been set to zero.
IFRS 2 Share-based payments has been applied only to grants of equity settled share-based payments made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 January 2005.
2.3 Early adoption of IFRS As permitted by IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, the Group has applied the standard to assets held for sale and discontinued operations occurring from its date of transition to IFRS as the necessary valuation information was available to do so.
In 2004 the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits, giving an option to recognise actuarial gains and losses in full, outside the income statement, in a statement of changes in equity.
This amendment applies to financial statement periods beginning after 1 January 2006.
However, as permitted by the amendment, the Group has elected to adopt this amendment early and has applied the new option in these financial statements for both the current and comparative periods.
2.4 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Groups share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The accounts of the Groups main trading subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are made up to 31 March.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
b Associates and joint ventures Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost, in accordance with IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
The Groups investment in joint ventures includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of its associates and joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
74 2005 06 Annual report When the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interest or participation, including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest or participation.
Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
2.5 Segmental reporting The Group operates in a number of geographical and business segments.
The primary reporting segmentation is by business segment as the Directors consider that this is the most appropriate distinction between the source and nature of risks and returns associated with its activities.
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Revenues and expenses are allocated to business segments based on the type of service to which they relate.
Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure are allocated to particular business segments if they substantially relate to a single identifiable segment.
Assets and capital expenditure that relate to a range of services falling under different business segments are reported as unallocated.
Revenues are allocated to geographical segments based on the location where the telecommunication services are delivered.
Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure are allocated to geographical segments based on their location.
2.6 Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into sterling as follows: i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions: and iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
There are no material Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, are taken to shareholders equity.
Cumulative translation differences at the date of transition have been set to zero, as permitted by IFRS 1.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Where net investments are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency borrowings and the hedge is effective, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such borrowings are also recorded as movements on the Groups translation reserves and any excess taken to the income statement.
2005 06 Annual report 75 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 2.7 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing the asset and restoring the site on which it is located are included in the cost of property, plant and equipment.
The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision under IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other subsequent costs primarily repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Interest costs of borrowings made specifically to finance separately identifiable major capital projects incurred up to the time that those projects are ready for service are also capitalised as part of the cost of assets when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or projects under construction.
On other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is provided on the difference between the cost of an item and its estimated residual value, in equal annual instalments over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Lives Cables up to 20 years Network equipment 3 to 25 years Ducting 40 years Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Surpluses and deficits on disposals of property, plant and equipment are determined by reference to sale proceeds and net book values.
These are recognised in the income statement.
Engineering spares held for use by the Group over a period exceeding one year are included in Assets under construction and are stated at cost, including appropriate allocation of labour and overheads.
Provision is made for deterioration and obsolescence.
The cost is determined on a weighted average basis.
2.8 Investments As permitted by IFRS 1, the Directors have elected not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 to the comparative figures.
For the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group has recognised its financial investments as previously accounted for under UK GAAP.
a From 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005 Listed and unlisted securities are carried at purchase price net of any diminution in value that is expected to be permanent.
Any diminution in value is charged in the income statement.
b From 1 April 2005 The Group classifies its investments into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, originated loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, and available for sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
The basis of determining fair values are set out in note 2.12 b.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within a year of the balance sheet date.
76 2005 06 Annual report Receivables Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than a year after the balance sheet date: these are classified as non-current assets.
Receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within a year of the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available for sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available for sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active or for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the issuers specific circumstances.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
2.9 Trade and other receivables a From 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005 Trade and other receivables are carried at the original invoice amount to customers less provision made for doubtful receivables based on a periodic review of all outstanding amounts.
Bad debts are written off through the income statement when identified.
b From 1 April 2005 Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
2.10 Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures is included in investments in joint ventures.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investments in associates.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
2005 06 Annual report 77 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 b Software and licences Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are recognised as intangible assets.
Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programmes beyond their original specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Intangible assets are amortised over their respective lives.
The useful lives of licences including concessions to provide telecommunication services are determined based on the terms of the underlying agreements including renewal periods if there is evidence to support renewal by the Group without significant cost.
Intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation on a straight line basis over the following periods: Lives Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter Software 35 years Other 35 years 2.11 Impairment of assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
All other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgmental and susceptible to change.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
The expected cash flows generated by the assets are discounted using asset specific discount rates which reflect the risks associated with the groups of assets.
These risks vary with the nature and the location of the cash generating units.
2.12 Financial instruments As permitted by IFRS 1, the Directors have elected not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 for the financial year ended 31 March 2005.
The Group has continued to adopt UK GAAP in the accounting for and disclosure of financial instruments for the year ended 31 March 2005.
From 1 April 2005, IAS 32 and IAS 39 have been applied.
a From 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005 Swaps and forward rate agreements The net interest paid or received under any interest rate and cross currency swaps and forward rate agreements FRAs is recorded on an accruals basis and included within net financing cost in the income statement.
The notional amounts of interest rate swaps and FRAs are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Cross currency swaps are used to hedge the initial draw down and final repayment of certain foreign currency denominated debt, and the related foreign currency interest flows.
Forward exchange contracts Forward exchange contracts are carried on the balance sheet at the difference between the amounts of the payable and receivable currency revalued at the closing exchange rate.
The interest differential, being the difference between the contract rate and the spot rate on the date of entering into the forward exchange contract, is charged to the income statement as interest over the life of the contract.
Exchange gains and losses Exchange gains and losses on revaluation and maturity of any forward exchange contracts and cross currency swaps are treated according to the underlying exposure they hedge: for any contracts that hedge firm third party commitments, the exchange gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the same period as the underlying transaction: for any contracts over underlying currency assets or liabilities, the exchange gains and losses are offset against the equal and opposite exchange gains or losses arising on the retranslation of the underlying assets or liabilities: for any contracts taken out to hedge overseas equity investments, the exchange gains and losses are taken to reserves to offset against the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets of the investments on consolidation: and for any contracts that hedge general trading flows, the exchange gains or losses are taken to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Where the underlying exposure changes, or ceases to exist, the contract would be terminated and the exchange gain or loss arising taken to the income statement.
78 2005 06 Annual report b From 1 April 2005 Derivative financial instruments and associated gains or losses are recognised as balance sheet items and recognised gains or losses respectively.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, network assets or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives, and trading and available for sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current ask price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
2005 06 Annual report 79 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 2.13 Borrowings a From 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005 Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received from the borrowing agreement, net of any related issue costs.
Those issue costs are amortised into the income statement over the life of the instrument using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least a year after the balance sheet date.
b From 1 April 2005 Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Where the terms of a borrowing arrangement contain a separable embedded derivative, the initial values of the debt component and the derivative component s are determined using the appropriate fair value calculations.
The liability portion is recorded on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
If the conversion option is a derivative it is accounted for as such.
Where the conversion option is considered to be equity, it is recognised and included in shareholders equity, net of income tax effects.
2.14 Inventories Materials and consumables are stated at cost less any provision for obsolescence.
Inventories held for resale are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value which is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less selling expenses.
When necessary, provision is made for obsolete and slow moving inventories.
The cost of inventory held for resale comprises acquisition costs and associated expenses determined on a weighted average basis.
2.15 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at cost.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and bank, short-term deposits, marketable securities and overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
2.16 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the issue proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, for the acquisition of a business, are included in the cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys shareholders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
2.17 Leases Property leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into the two component parts.
Each component part is then tested to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
Lessee Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property, plant and equipment or the present value of minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other long-term payables.
These payments are split between capital and interest elements using the annuity method.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
80 2005 06 Annual report Lessor Assets leased out under finance leases or contractual arrangements similar in substance to finance leases are derecognised at the inception of the lease.
Lease receivables are recorded at an amount equal to the sum of the present value of the minimum lease payments and any unguaranteed residual value.
The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the lease payments is recognised as unearned finance income.
Lease income is recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method, which reflects a constant periodic rate of return.
Assets leased out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment in the balance sheet.
They are depreciated over their expected useful lives on a basis consistent with similar fixed assets.
Rental income is recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
2.18 Assets held for sale Assets classified as assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and recoverable value, defined as market value less costs of disposal, as their value will be recovered principally through the sale transaction rather than through continuing usage.
The Group adopted IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations from 1 April 2004 in accordance with the standards provisions.
Assets or disposal groups held for sale at 31 March 2006 have been separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet.
Income and expenditure related to these assets, or those disposed of during the year, including gains or losses on their disposal, have been presented as a single line in the income statement.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges but separately disclosed.
2.19 Employee benefits Pension obligations Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions to defined contribution schemes if the funds do not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
The asset and liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans are the present values of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
Defined benefit obligations for each scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligations are determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions in the period in which they occur directly in the statement of recognised income and expenses.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Other post-employment obligations Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are dealt with in the same way as for defined benefit pension schemes.
Independent qualified actuaries value these obligations annually.
2005 06 Annual report 81 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 Share-based compensation The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Where continuing employees withdraw from share-based compensation plans the remaining charge is recognised immediately.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than a year after balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
Bonus plans The Group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
2.20 Tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from: the initial recognition of goodwill: or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
2.21 Provisions These comprise liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Property provisions are recognised for unavoidable lease payments representing the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sub-let.
Redundancy provisions, relating to both continuing and discontinued operations, comprise employee termination payments.
Legal provisions comprise legal fees and expected settlement costs.
Provisions are presented in the balance sheet at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The discount rate is the pre-tax rate reflecting the assessment of the settlement date.
Provision charges and reversals are recognised in the income statement as operating costs.
Discount unwinding is recognised as part of interest expense.
82 2005 06 Annual report 2.22 Revenue recognition Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided to customers and is accounted for on the accruals basis.
It includes sales to joint ventures and associated companies but does not include sales by joint ventures and associated companies or sales between Group companies.
Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided.
In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as services are provided.
Charges are negotiated separately and are subject to continual review.
Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Mobile revenue comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, the provision of other mobile telecommunications services, including data services and information provision and turnover from the sale of equipment, including handsets.
Mobile monthly access charges are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle.
Airtime, either from contract customers as part of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid top-up cards, is recorded in the period in which the customer uses the service.
Unbilled revenue resulting from mobile services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of each period is accrued.
Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content on its network originated by third-party providers.
The Group assesses whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following indicators: whether the Group holds itself out as an agent: establishment of the price: provision of customer remedies: performance of part of the service: and assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunication equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue-generating activities generally the sale of telecom equipment and ongoing service is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently based on the fair value of the components.
Revenue from the sale of the telecom equipment and services is recognised on the basis set out above.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which the service is provided.
2.23 Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend income is included within Other income.
2.24 Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
2005 06 Annual report 83 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 2.25 New IFRS standards and interpretations not yet applied During 2005, the IASB and IFRIC issued additional standards and interpretations, which are effective for periods starting after the date of these financial statements.
The following standards and interpretations have yet to be adopted by the Group: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IAS IFRS 1 Amendment relating to IFRS 6 IFRS 4 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Financial guarantee contracts IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral assets IFRS 6 Amendment relating to IFRS 6 IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures IAS 1 Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements: capital disclosures IAS 39 Fair value option IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Financial guarantee contracts International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease IFRIC 5 Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market waste electrical and electronic equipment IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives The Group will apply the above standards, excluding IFRIC 8 and 9, in its financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2007 and subsequent periods.
IFRIC 8 and 9 will be applied in financial statements for periods ending 31 March 2008 or later.
The amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 dealing with financial guarantee contracts may have an effect on the Groups financial statements but any such impact has not yet been quantified.
The Group anticipates that the adoption of the other standards and interpretations listed above will not have a material effect on its results or financial position.
84 2005 06 Annual report 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, a number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the financial condition of the Group.
Results may differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Groups most critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the presentation of its consolidated financial condition and results.
These particular policies require subjective and complex judgements, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
3.1 Valuation of assets for purchase accounting The cost of acquired companies is allocated to tangible and other identifiable intangible assets and liabilities acquired by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition.
The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill.
Any value assigned to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent appraisal, or estimated by our management based on cash flow projections which include estimates and judgements regarding expectations for the economic useful lives of the products and technology acquired.
In the latter situation, where appropriate, third party valuation specialists are involved.
Goodwill is allocated to the cash generating units to which it relates.
3.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use for those assets.
Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives or residual values differing from initial estimates.
Where the Group determines that the useful life of property and equipment should be shortened or residual value reduced, it depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Any change in asset lives or residual value would be reflected in the Groups financial statements when the change in estimate is determined.
3.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The Directors assess the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that are considered important and which could trigger an impairment review include the following: obsolescence or physical damage: significant changes in technology and regulatory environments: significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: significant changes in the use of its assets or the strategy for its overall business: significant negative industry or economic trends: and significant decline in its stock price for a sustained period and its market capitalisation relative to net book value.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill, which is not amortised, at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets or cash generating units requires significant judgement concerning the identification and validation of impairment indicators, the timing and amount of expected cash flows and applicable discount rates.
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Groups cash generating units to their recoverable amounts which is the higher of net realisable value and the value in use.
Net realisable value represents market value in an active market less cost to sell.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset or the cash generating unit to which it refers.
Future cash flows are determined with reference to the Groups own projections using discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the respective businesses.
The approach, assumptions and results of the impairment test are set out in note 14.
3.4 Revenue recognition Revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax or other sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided to customers and is accounted for on the accruals basis to match revenue with the provision of service.
Revenue is recognised monthly as services are provided.
Revenue in respect of services invoiced in advance is deferred and recognised on provision of the service.
Revenue in respect of unbilled services is accrued.
Judgement is required in assessing the application of these principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenues, including the presentation of revenue as principal or as agent in respect of income received from transmission of content provided by third parties.
2005 06 Annual report 85 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 3.5 Interconnection with other operators and similar supply arrangements As part of the normal course of business, the Group interconnects with other telecommunications operators.
In certain instances it uses estimates to determine the amount of income receivable from or payments to these other operators.
The prices at which these services are charged are sometimes regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely impact of these adjustments.
In a similar way, the Group enters into supply arrangements.
In certain instances it uses estimates of price or usage to determine the expense charged in any period.
These estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual pricing or usage as such information becomes available or is agreed with suppliers.
Credits and charges on adjustments to both interconnect and other supply arrangements are taken to operating profit in the period in which the adjustments are made.
3.6 Impairment of receivables and provision for bad and doubtful debts The allowance for impairment of receivables at 31 March 2006 or provision for bad or doubtful debts at 31 March 2005 reflects estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Groups customers to make required payments.
The allowance provision is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer credit worthiness and the Groups historical write-off experience.
Changes to the allowance provision may be required if the financial condition of its customers improves or deteriorates.
An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs.
Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
3.7 Taxation The tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of Cable & Wireless and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
3.8 Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition therefore involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
3.9 Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation in respect of a past event as explained in the accounting policy in note 2.21.
Judgement is required to quantify such amounts.
3.10 Pensions The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees.
The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: the life expectancy of the members: the length of service: the rate of salary progression: the rate of return earned on assets in the future: the rate used to discount future pension liabilities: and future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by Cable & Wireless are set out in note 30 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but are comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by other FTSE 100 companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially impact the size of the defined benefit schemes deficits and assets disclosed in note 30.
86 2005 06 Annual report 3.11 Fair value estimation The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.12.
Where market values are not available fair values are based on valuation methodologies which require inputs and forecasts to be made.
Judgement is required in determining the appropriate assumptions underlying those inputs and forecasts.
2005 06 Annual report 87 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 4 Segment information Primary reporting format business segments Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications service provider.
During the year Cable & Wireless operated three primary business segments: International business: UK corporate business: and Bulldog.
The UK corporate business provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services across the UK, US, continental Europe and Asia.
Bulldog Communications Limited Bulldog provides consumer and small business telephony and broadband services in the UK.
From 1 April 2006 Bulldog became part of the UK corporate business.
Continuing operations The segment results for the year ended 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 are presented below: 1 International UK corporate Other and business business Bulldog eliminations Total 2006 m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 1,212 2,028 33 43 3,230 Pre-exceptional operating costs 937 2,002 153 1 3,093 Exceptional operating costs 20 245 7 258 Group operating profit loss 255 219 120 37 121 Share of post-tax profit of associates and joint ventures 60 6 54 Total operating profit loss 315 225 120 37 67 Other income 168 Net finance costs 11 Profit before income tax 112 Tax 27 Net profit 85 1 Other includes Central revenues and expenses.
1 International UK corporate Other and business business Bulldog eliminations Total 2005 m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 1,124 1,835 11 22 2,948 Pre-exceptional operating costs 863 1,761 41 49 2,714 Exceptional operating costs 22 99 30 151 Group operating profit loss 239 25 30 101 83 Share of post-tax profit of associates and joint ventures 56 8 48 Total operating profit loss 295 33 30 101 131 Other income 2 Net finance costs 34 Profit before income tax 167 Tax 25 Net profit 192 1 Other includes Central revenues and expenses.
Inter segment sales are not significant but are charged at arms length prices.
88 2005 06 Annual report The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 and for the year ended on these dates are: 1 International UK corporate Other and business business Bulldog eliminations Total Year ended 31 March 2006 m m m m m Continuing operations Segment assets 1,809 1,629 138 959 4,535 Associates and joint ventures 186 10 176 Total assets 1,995 1,619 138 959 4,711 Total liabilities 366 965 48 1,400 2,779 Capital expenditure 142 207 70 3 416 Acquisitions 2 608 610 Depreciation and amortisation 142 123 15 6 274 Impairment charge 237 237 Movement on provisions 20 8 2 26 1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets and liabilities.
1 International UK corporate Other and business business Bulldog eliminations Total Year ended 31 March 2005 m m m m m Continuing operations Segment assets 1,733 919 81 1,804 4,537 Associates and joint ventures 245 245 Total assets 1,978 919 81 1,804 4,782 Total liabilities 428 911 29 1,650 3,018 Capital expenditure 171 155 40 8 374 Acquisitions 55 3 19 77 Depreciation and amortisation 126 61 2 1 190 Impairment charge 3 5 8 Movement on provisions 39 92 75 206 1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets and liabilities.
The 237 million impairment charge against assets in the UK corporate business is primarily due to the change in the UK strategy to focus on fewer, larger customers, supporting them with the migration from legacy to IP solutions, and duplication arising from the combination with Energis.
The impairment has been recorded as an exceptional item within Operating expenses in the income statement.
During 2005, the Group recorded an impairment charge of 8 million in respect of network assets.
The basis of calculation of the impairment is set out in note 14.
Segment assets include goodwill related to the acquisitions of Energis arising in the year ended 31 March 2006 and Monaco Telecom SAM Monaco Telecom and Bulldog recognised in the year ended 31 March 2005.
Goodwill of 384 million relating to Energis is included in the UK corporate business segment.
Goodwill of 29 million 2005 39 million relating to Monaco Telecom is included in the International segment and the 20 million 2005 20 million relating to Bulldog is included in the Bulldog segment.
Other and eliminations includes assets and liabilities held centrally by the Group, primarily cash and borrowings, and other non-operating items including tax balances.
2005 06 Annual report 89 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 Discontinued operations Details of those businesses categorised as discontinued are set out in note 12.
The segment results of the discontinued operations for the year ended 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 are presented below: International UK business business Other Total 2006 m m m m Discontinued operations Revenue 55 Operating costs 3 3 Group operating profit 22 Reversal of unutilised provisions 68 68 Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 173 20 Profit before income tax 19 36890 Tax Net profit 90 International UK business business Other Total 2005 m m m m Discontinued operations Revenue 13 207 220 Operating costs 9 189 198 Exceptional operating costs 2 2 Group operating profit 416 20 Reversal of unutilised provisions 22 22 Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 3 38 41 Proceeds from US exit 66 66 Other non-operating income 16 16 Net finance costs 1 1 Profit before income tax 76988 164 Tax 2 Net profit 162 Other includes amounts recognised in respect of previously discontinued operations not included in the current segments.
These are primarily transactions arising from the Groups exit from its former US operations in prior years.
The UK segment includes Spain and Japan.
The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at 31 March 2006 and for the year ended on this date are 1 million segment assets and 1 million total liabilities relating to the mobile and fixed line telecommunications businesses in Sakhalin the Sakhalin Operations which is part of the International business segment.
Movement of provisions was a release of 68 million in the other segment.
The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at 31 March 2005 and for the year ended on this date are: International UK corporate 1 business business Other Total 2005 m m m m Discontinued operations Segment assets 108 18 Total liabilities 2 2 4 Capital expenditure 310 13 Depreciation and amortisation 1 1 Movement on provisions 22 22 1 Other includes corporate and non-operating assets.
Discontinued operations represent those businesses discontinued and disposed of or held for sale at the year end.
There were no discontinued operations held for sale at the year end.
In 2005 the assets and liabilities included within the UK represent the business in Spain.
The assets and liabilities within International represent the Sakhalin Operations.
Both these businesses were identified as held for sale at 31 March 2005.
These businesses were disposed of during 2006.
Refer to note 12 for further information.
90 2005 06 Annual report Secondary reporting format geographical segments Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications company with continuing operations in six geographical segments: UK including the United Kingdom, Europe, US and Asia, Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and Rest of the World.
The segment results for the year ended 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 are presented below: 1 Other and Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW UK eliminations Total 2006 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 564 284 136 124 104 2,040 22 3,230 Operating costs 440 214 99 105 79 2,134 22 3,093 Exceptional operating costs 16 3 1 245 7 258 Group operating profit loss 108 70 37 16 24 339 37 121 Share of post-tax profit of associates and joint ventures 115 44 6 54 Total operating profit loss 119 70 37 21 68 345 37 67 Other income 168 Net finance costs 11 Profit before income tax 112 Tax 27 Net profit 85 1 Other includes Central revenue and expense.
1 Other and Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW UK eliminations Total 2005 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 550 257 117 100 100 1,843 19 2,948 Operating costs 442 182 82 84 73 1,799 52 2,714 Exceptional operating costs 21 1 99 30 151 Group operating profit loss 87 75 35 16 26 55 101 83 Share of post-tax profit of associates and joint ventures 141 41 8 48 Total operating profit loss 101 75 35 17 67 63 101 131 Losses on sale of non-current assets 3 Net finance costs and other income 39 Profit before income tax 167 Tax 25 Net profit 192 1 Other includes Central revenue and expense.
The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 and for the year ended on these dates are: 1 Other and Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW UK eliminations Total 2006 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Segment assets 808 376 128 237 260 1,767 959 4,535 Associates 1277 52 10 176 Total assets 935 376 128 244 312 1,757 959 4,711 Total liabilities 169 63 26 80 28 1,013 1,400 2,779 Capital expenditure 78 25 11 10 18 277 3 416 Acquisitions 2 608 610 Depreciation and amortisation 63 35 16 13 15 138 6 274 Impairment charge 237 237 Movement on provisions 18 2 8 2 26 1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets.
2005 06 Annual report 91 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 1 Other and Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW UK eliminations Total 2005 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Segment assets 787 396 104 289 157 1,000 1,804 4,537 Associates 1181 126 245 Total assets 905 396 104 290 283 1,000 1,804 4,782 Total liabilities 208 60 22 107 31 940 1,650 3,018 Capital expenditure 104 44 14 3 6 195 8 374 Acquisitions 55 22 77 Depreciation and amortisation 58 31 15 11 11 63 1 190 Impairment charge 3 5 8 Movement on provisions 4 35 92 75 206 1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets.
Revenue is based on the location where the telecommunication services were delivered.
It does not follow necessarily that the international telecommunication traffic transiting the Groups networks originates in that location.
The Group does not have access to information on the original source or ultimate destination of international telecommunication traffic.
The impairment has been recorded within Operating expenses in the income statement.
Of the charge, 5 million was included in the results of the UK segment.
The remaining 3 million was reflected in the results of the Caribbean segment.
Segment assets include goodwill related to the acquisitions of Energis arising in the year ended 31 March 2006 and Monaco Telecom and Bulldog recognised in the year ended 31 March 2005.
Goodwill of 384 million relating to Energis is included in the UK segment.
Goodwill of 29 million 2005 39 million relating to Monaco is included in the Monaco segment and the 20 million 2005 20 million relating to Bulldog is included in the UK segment.
Discontinued operations 2005 06 2004 05 ROW UK Total ROW UK Total m m m m m m Discontinued operations Revenue 55 13 207 220 Total segment assets 11 10 8 18 Capital expenditure 31013 5 Revenue 2005 06 2004 05 Note m m Continuing operations Sales of telecommunication services and related operations 3,145 2,890 Sales of telecom equipment and accessories 85 58 3,230 2,948 Revenue from discontinued operations 12 5 220 Total revenue 3,235 3,168 92 2005 06 Annual report 6 Operating costs The split of the operating costs incurred by the Group, in accordance with the nature of cost is presented below: 2005 06 2004 05 Pre-exceptional Exceptional Total Pre-exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Outpayments 1,350 1,350 1,099 1,099 Employee and other staff expenses 527 34 561 527 70 597 Operating lease rentals networks 62 62 66 66 property 38 38 40 40 plant and equipment 3 3 33 Other administrative costs 261 12 273 270 270 Foreign exchange losses 8 8 7 7 Other network maintenance costs 226 1 227 188 8 196 Property taxes and utility costs 83 7 76 70 56 126 Cost of equipment sold 274 274 256 256 Other operating expenses 3 19 16 12 9 21 2,819 21 2,840 2,524 143 2,667 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 46 60 106 20 20 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 228 177 405 170 8 178 Total operating costs 3,093 258 3,351 2,714 151 2,865 Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the establishment or release of accruals.
The nature of telecommunications industry is such that estimates are often required to be made in relation to customer or supplier commitments, the final outcome of which may not be known for some time.
As issues arise or are resolved, accruals are created or released as appropriate the net impact of this is included in operating costs within the relevant line item.
The nature of the industry and of these items is such that the amount of the credits or charges vary from year to year.
2005 06 2004 05 Note m m Exceptional items Staff costs i 34 68 Hurricane related charges ii 6 17 Other costs iii 12 4 Property costs iv 7 54 21 143 Asset impairment v 237 8 Total exceptional operating costs 258 151 i Staff costs principally relate to redundancy costs arising from the restructuring of the Groups operations in continuing businesses.
International business 9 million 2005 2 million, UK business 14 million 2005 57 million and Corporate 11 million 2005 9 million.
ii Hurricane Ivan adversely affected the Groups operations in the Caribbean.
As a result, exceptional restoration costs of 6 million 2005 12 million were incurred in rectifying damage caused to the network.
In 2005 the hurricane related exceptional restoration costs also included employee costs 2 million, property costs 2 million and 1 million of other costs.
iii Other costs include 4 million of restructuring costs and 2 million of other costs in the International business, Energis integration costs of 8 million, 5 million provided to a joint venture to assist with Tsunami related restoration costs and 2 million corporate restructuring costs.
These were offset by provision releases of 33 million.
In 2005 other costs included charges of 11 million relating to onerous network costs in the UK corporate business and other restructuring charges in the UK corporate business of 8 million, partially offset by provision releases of 15 million relating to a joint venture operation.
iv Property costs include provision releases relating to prior period restructuring provisions in the UK corporate business of 6 million and centrally of 1 million.
In 2005 the property costs related to the restructuring of Group operations being 32 million in the UK corporate business and 22 million elsewhere.
v An impairment charge of 237 million has been recognised relating to property, plant and equipment 177 million and intangible assets 60 million arising in the UK corporate business.
In 2005 an impairment charge of 3 million was recognised relating to property, plant and equipment that were damaged by the hurricane and tsunami.
In addition, as a consequence of the restructuring in the Groups European operations, an impairment charge of 5 million was recognised in respect of property, plant and equipment.
Refer to note 14 for further information on the impairments.
2005 06 Annual report 93 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 Auditors remuneration The remuneration of the auditor and its associates in respect of audit services provided to the Group during the year was 3.9 million including 1.1 million relating to the prior year 2005 3.2 million including 300,000 relating to 2004.
The audit remuneration in respect of prior years resulted from additional audit work in the Cayman Islands following Hurricane Ivan and additional work to comply with SEC disclosures.
Regulatory reporting fees principally related to compliance with IFRS and the review of interim financial statements.
The remuneration of the auditor and its associates in respect of non-audit services to the Company and its UK subsidiaries during the year was 900,000 2005 900,000 and to overseas subsidiaries 300,000 2005 600,000 as summarised below: 2005 06 2004 05 m m Audit services Statutory audit services 2.8 2.9 Audit services in respect of prior years 1.1 0.3 Audit-related regulatory reporting 0.8 1.4 4.7 4.6 Further assurance services 0.2 0.2 Tax services Compliance 0.5 1.0 Tax services Advisory services 0.2 0.2 Other services 0.3 0.1 5.9 6.1 7 Employee and key management personnel expenses Costs of employees of the Group excluding temporary and contract staff 2005 06 2004 05 Note m m Wages and salaries 434 503 Social securities costs 41 44 Share-based payments 33 14 10 Pension costs defined benefit plans 30 6 19 defined contribution plans 30 9 12 504 588 Less: Staff costs capitalised 18 51 Staff costs 486 537 Average number of employees The average monthly number of persons, including Executive Directors employed by the Group in continuing operations during the year was: 2005 06 2004 05 International business Caribbean 4,083 4,149 Panama 1,825 1,894 Macau 960 908 Monaco 477 434 Rest of the World 700 887 Total International business 8,045 8,272 UK corporate business 5,604 5,224 Bulldog 511 223 Other 165 329 Continuing operations 14,325 14,048 Discontinued operations pro-rated 647 14,325 14,695 94 2005 06 Annual report Key managements remuneration Included in staff costs are key management expenses, including 6 million 2005 4 million aggregate Directors emoluments, as follows: 2005 06 2004 05 m m Salaries and short-term employment benefits 9 9 Termination and relocation benefits 3 2 Share-based payments 4 3 16 14 Directors remuneration is disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on page 61.
8 Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 2005 06 2004 05 Pre-exceptional Exceptional Total Pre-exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 2 81 83 5 8 3 Gains less losses on disposals of non-current assets before exceptional items amount to 2 million 2005 5 million.
These gains and losses arise on the sale of businesses that do not meet the definition of a discontinued operation, investments or fixed assets.
The tax charge attributable is nil 2005 nil and the minority interest share is nil 2005 1 million.
Exceptional gains on disposals of non-current assets total 81 million 2005 8 million loss.
This is made up of 70 million gains on the sale of the Groups stake in MobileOne and 11 million on the sale of Coventry College, the Groups training centre.
In 2004 05 the loss of 8 million is attributable to the disposal of operations.
The tax charge attributable is nil 2005 nil and the minority interest share is 34 million 2005 nil.
The cash proceeds on disposal of MobileOne were 87 million, of which 43 million is attributed to the minority interest.
This was loaned to the minority interest during the year.
9 Other income 2005 06 2004 05 Pre-exceptional Exceptional Total Pre-exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Other income 7 78 85 55 Pre-exceptional other income of 7 million 2005 5 million primarily relates to dividends from investments.
Exceptional other income of 78 million 2005 nil comprises 6 million of insurance receipts in respect of Hurricane Ivan and 72 million resulting from the resolution of claims and other matters in respect of Pender Insurance Limited Pender, the Groups insurance subsidiary.
10 Interest income and expense 2005 06 2004 05 m m Interest income Interest on cash and deposits 80 102 Interest expense and similar charges Interest on bank loans 9 9 Interest on other loans 58 60 Finance charges on leases 2 Unwinding of provision discount 3 1 72 70 Less: Interest capitalised 3 2 Total interest expense and similar charges 69 68 Tax relief of nil is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2006 2005 nil.
Interest has been capitalised at a rate of 9% 2005 6%.
2005 06 Annual report 95 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 11 Income tax expense credit 2005 06 2004 05 m m Current tax expense UK tax at 30% 35 4 Double tax relief 35 4 Overseas tax 48 49 Adjustments relating to prior years 34 96 Total current tax expense credit 14 47 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 8 10 Effect of change in tax rates 1 2 7 8 Adjustments relating to prior years 6 16 Total deferred tax charge 13 24 Total tax expense credit 27 23 Continuing operations 27 25 Discontinued operations 2 27 23 The 48 million 2005 49 million overseas tax expense is net of a 2 million credit 2005 4 million credit in respect of the exceptional operating costs included in note 6.
The 2005 96 million overseas tax credit relating to prior years includes an exceptional release of 85 million in respect of settlement and clarification of various long-standing overseas tax items at less than their expected cost.
The Groups effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows: 2005 06 2004 05 %% UK statutory tax rate 30.0 30.0 Effect of overseas tax rates 19.6 5.0 Effect of accounting for associates 2.0 1.4 Effect of intra-group dividends less double tax relief 6.5 8.6 Effect of income not taxable disallowed expenditure 2.0 10.0 Effect of other temporary differences 0.5 0.1 Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 14.3 25.3 Adjustments relating to prior years 14.3 23.9 Effective tax rate 13.4 7.1 12 Discontinued operations There were no businesses classified to discontinued operations during the current year.
The amounts being reflected in the discontinued operations for the current year represent business classified as discontinued in the previous years.
Businesses Disposal date Gain on disposal m 2006 Cable & Wireless SLU C&W Spain 8 April 2005 3 The Sakhalin Operations 13 July 2005 17 20 2005 C&W Japan 17 February 2005 38 96 2005 06 Annual report The profit for the 2005 06 year from discontinued operations includes the results of C&W Spain and the Sakhalin Operations up to the dates of disposal of 2 million as well as the gain of 20 million on their disposal and the reversal of 68 million unutilised provisions relating primarily to US operations discontinued in a prior financial year.
The profit for the 2004 05 year from discontinued operations included the results of C&W Japan up until the date of disposal of 16 million and the results of the Sakhalin Operations and C&W Spain of 4 million.
Profits from discontinued operations also include the following items: profit of 38 million on the disposal of C&W Japan.
profit of 16 million arising from the disposal of certain investments held by C&W Japan, before its disposal by the Group: cash proceeds of 66 million arising from the Chapter 11 process of the US operations which were discontinued during the previous financial year and a reversal of unutilised provisions of 22 million: and deferred consideration of 3 million received on the disposal of the Groups Yemen operation, which was sold in a prior year.
2005 06 2004 05 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total Note m m m m m m Revenue 5 55 220 220 Operating expenses 3 3 197 2 199 Depreciation 1 1 Operating profit loss 2 2 22 2 20 Gain on disposals of discontinued operations 2020 3838 Profit on disposal of investments 1616 Proceeds from US exit 6666 Reversal of unutilised provisions 6868 2222 Deferred consideration received from disposal of Yemen operations 33 Profit before finance cost and tax 28890 25 140 165 Net financing cost 1 1 Profit before income tax 2 88 90 24 140 164 Income tax expense 11 2 2 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 2 88 90 22 140 162 In 2005 06 C&W Spain and Sakhalin Operations contributed 27 million to net cash from investing activities.
In 2004 05 C&W Japan contributed 2 million to net cash from operating activities and 6 million inflow from investing activities.
The aggregate assets and liabilities at the disposal dates were the following: 2005 06 2004 05 Spain and Sakhalin Japan Carrying amount Carrying amount m m Property, plant and equipment 5 43 Current assets 11 56 Trade and other payables 3 55 Non-current liabilities 24 Cumulative foreign currency translation reserve 3 Net assets 13 23 Minority interests 3 2 Net assets disposed 10 21 Total disposal consideration received 30 62 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 3 14 Transaction costs 3 Net cash inflow on disposal of discontinued operations 27 45 In 2005 the Group also received cash inflows from the disposal of its Yemen operations 7 million and from the Chapter 11 bankruptcy process of its US operations 44 million.
2005 06 Annual report 97 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 13 Earnings per share Basic earnings per Ordinary Share are based on the profit for the year attributable to shareholders and the weighted average number of shares in issue, excluding Ordinary Shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares.
2005 06 2004 05 m m Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 79 294 Interest saved on loan stock conversion 20 11 Diluted profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 99 305 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 2,286 2,322 dilution effects of: share options 38 28 convertible unsecured loan stock 178 178 Diluted weighted average number of shares 2,502 2,528 Basic earnings per share p share 3.5p 12.7p 1 Diluted earnings per share p share 3.4p 12.1p Continuing operations Loss profit from continuing operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 10 132 Diluted profit loss from continuing operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 10 143 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations p share 0.4 p 5.7p 2 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations p share 0.4 p 5.7p Discontinued operations Profit from discontinued operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 89 162 Diluted profit from discontinued operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 89 162 Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations p share 3.9p 7.0p Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations p share 3.6p 6.4p Cable & Wireless uses the non-IFRS financial measure Basic earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items as one of the key performance indicators for evaluating the financial performance of the business.
The Group believes that this measure provides an important measure of the underlying operating performance of the Group because it excludes non-recurring items.
For the year ended 31 March 2006, the Basic Earnings per Ordinary Share before Exceptional Items was 5.2 pence 2005 9.5 pence computed as: 2005 06 2004 05 m m Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 79 294 Impact of exceptional items after tax and minority interest 41 73 Profit for the financial year before exceptional items 120 221 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 2,286 2,322 Basic earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items 5.2p 9.5p 1 In determining the diluted earnings per share, we have excluded the convertible loan stock because it is anti-dilutive in 2006.
2 In determining the diluted earnings per share for continuing operations, we have excluded the share options and the convertible loan stock because both are anti-dilutive in 2006.
98 2005 06 Annual report 14 Impairment review Cable & Wireless assesses the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that are considered important, which could trigger an impairment review, are set out in note 3.3.
Non-current assets Year ended 31 March 2006 The UK corporate business comprises two cash generating units CGUs Energis acquired during the year and the legacy Cable & Wireless UK business.
As the performance and cash flows are separately identifiable in this year, these are treated as separate CGUs for the purpose of impairment review as permitted by IAS 36.
The change in focus and strategy of the UK corporate business and the recent performance of the legacy C&W UK corporate business triggered a review of the carrying value of that legacy business' assets.
A number of these assets are of continuing strategic value to the combined business and have a market value in excess of their carrying value.
These include the core network, the investment in the Next Generation Network 'NGN' and certain properties.
The impaired assets relate primarily to technologies that are becoming obsolete as customers move towards IP network solutions, support customers falling outside the UK corporate business future strategy or are duplicated as the business combines with Energis.
A discounted cash flow analysis using the business approved business plan reflecting a negative growth rate of 1% as these businesses migrate to the NGN and a discount rate of 10.6% indicates that the carrying value of these remaining assets should be written off, which is reflected in the impairment charge of 237 million.
The Group reviewed the carrying values of its interests in joint ventures at the end of the year.
An impairment totalling 4 million has been considered appropriate being 3 million in a Chinese joint venture, CITIC Cable & Wireless Broadband, and 1 million in a Solomon Islands joint venture, Solomon Telecom Company Limited.
Year ended 31 March 2005 The Group was in the process of restructuring its European operations part of the UK Group segment to focus on the Carrier business.
As a consequence of this restructuring, a general review was undertaken of the carrying value of the network assets within the European geography.
The European geography, which excludes the main UK corporate business, the Groups remaining operations in the US and Asia and Bulldog, was treated as a single cash generating unit reflecting the basis on which the business is managed.
The recoverable amount of the network assets was determined by reference to the value in use.
An impairment charge of 5 million was identified.
Value in use was determined by discounting to present value the future cash flows obtainable as a result of the continued use of the cash generating units property, plant and equipment.
Future cash flows were determined with reference to the Groups three-year management projections.
Cash flows beyond this forecasting period were extrapolated using an estimated long-term growth rate of 2.5%.
This growth rate is in line with the long-term growth rate projections for the countries in which the cash generating unit operates.
Future cash flows were discounted by a rate of 15%, which represents the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the cash generating unit.
In the first half of 2005, Hurricane Ivan caused damage to certain network assets in the Groups operations in the Caribbean.
As a consequence, specific network assets that had been recorded within the Plant and equipment asset class within property, plant and equipment were identified as damaged beyond repair and were written off.
The total value of this specific impairment was 3 million.
Goodwill During the year the Group acquired a controlling interest in Chelys Limited, the parent company of Energis 2005 controlling interests in Monaco Telecom and Bulldog.
Goodwill of 384 million 2005 36 million and 20 million, respectively, arose on this acquisition.
As required by IFRS 3, impairment tests of this goodwill were performed as at 31 March 2006.
In performing these tests, the recoverable amount of goodwill was determined by reference to the value in use of continuing to operate these businesses.
Assumptions relating to the significant elements of goodwill are: Energis Energis represents a single cash generating unit for impairment purposes therefore all goodwill has been allocated to that unit.
The Directors consider that the purchase price of Chelys Limited continues to represent the fair value less costs to sell of the business and therefore no impairment is necessary.
2005 06 Annual report 99 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 Monaco Telecom Three cash generating units were identified for the purposes of assessing the carrying value of Monaco Telecoms network assets, namely, domestic business, cable television business and the international business.
Goodwill has been allocated to this group of cash generating units as permitted by IAS 36.
The value in use was determined for each cash generating unit by discounting future cash flows based on managements three-year projections extrapolated at long-term growth rates of between 0% and 2.5% at discount rates of between 8% and 40% dependent on the risk adjusted cost of capital of different parts of the business.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use relate to revenue growth, operating margin and the level of maintenance capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
Monaco Telecom operates under an exclusive concession in Monaco and managements forecasts were based on historical experience for the business.
No impairment was considered necessary.
15 Dividends declared and paid 2005 06 2004 05 m m Final dividend in respect of the prior year 60 73 Interim dividend in respect of the current year 32 27 Total dividend paid 92 100 During the year ended 31 March 2006 the Group declared and paid a final dividend of 2.6 pence per share 2005 2.1 pence per share but paid with the interim dividend for the 2003 04 year of 1.05 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2005.
The Group has also declared and paid an interim dividend of 1.4 pence per share 2005 1.2 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2006.
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 3.1 pence per share 2005 2.6 pence per share, totalling 75 million 2005 60 million for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 21 July 2006 in respect of the year ended 31 March 2006.
These financial statements do not reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2007.
The number of shareholders electing to take all or part of their dividends in shares varies from dividend to dividend.
13,644 shareholders 2005 14,076 shareholders owning 528 million shares 2005 106 million shares elected to take the interim dividend wholly or partly in shares.
13,795 shareholders 2005 13,488 shareholders owning 180 million shares 2005 68 million shares elected to take the final dividend wholly or partly in shares.
The total shares were issued with a value of 12 million 2005 3 million.
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the trust.
100 2005 06 Annual report 16 Intangible assets Customer Licences and contracts and Goodwill Software concessions relationships Other Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2004 650 32 682 Business combinations 56 1 66 14 137 Acquired 43 43 Disposals 84 30 114 Exchange adjustments 3 2 1 At 1 April 2005 59 608 66 16 749 Business combinations 384 16 3 132 535 Reassessment of previous business combinations note 38 b 8 8 Acquired 26 5 5 36 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 21 21 Disposals 2 2 Exchange adjustments 2 3 1 At 31 March 2006 433 672 74 132 21 1,332 Amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2004 607 31 638 Charge for the year 14 3 3 20 Disposals 84 30 114 Exchange adjustments 1 1 At 1 April 2005 536 3 4 543 Charge for the year 32 4 5 5 46 Impairment 60 60 Exchange adjustments 1 1 At 31 March 2006 629 7 5 9 650 Net book value At 31 March 2006 433 43 67 127 12 682 At 31 March 2005 59 72 63 12 206 The goodwill recognised during the year relates to the acquisition of Energis 384 million.
In 2005 the goodwill recognised was 36 million from the Monaco Telecom and 20 million from Bulldog.
Disclosure of these business combinations is set out in note 38.
Intangible assets recognised in the business acquisitions made during the current and previous year represent: Amortisation Acquisition Intangible asset Useful life method 2006 Energis Customer contracts and relationships 415 years Straight line Energis Software 3 years Straight line Atlas Customer contracts and relationships 6 years Straight line 2005 Monaco Concession licence 18.6 years Straight line Monaco International managed service contracts 15 years Straight line Bulldog Brand name 4 years Straight line XM Mobile Intellectual property 5 years Straight line Monaco Telecom has been awarded a concession agreement by the principality of Monaco.
This concession agreement gives Monaco Telecom a monopoly over fixed line, mobile and Cable TV until 2023.
The carrying amount of this concession asset at 31 March 2006 is 61 million 2005 62 million and the remaining amortisation period is 16.8 years.
As at 31 March 2006, the Group carried out an asset impairment review as disclosed in note 14.
An impairment charge of 60 million 2005 nil was recognised in relation to intangible assets included in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2006.
Other than goodwill, there are no intangible assets with an indefinite life.
2005 06 Annual report 101 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 17 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Assets under buildings equipment construction Total m m m m Cost At 1 April 2004 509 6,068 406 6,983 Additions 2 67 275 344 Business combinations 32 32 Disposals 55 467 13 535 Transfers 4 410 414 Transfer to held for sale assets 13 13 Exchange differences 7 45 7 59 At 31 March 2005 453 6,052 247 6,752 Additions 9 77 294 380 Business combinations 25 172 41 238 Disposals 17 24 8 49 Transfers 53 175 228 Transfers to intangibles 21 21 Exchange differences 10 118 8 136 At 31 March 2006 533 6,570 333 7,436 Depreciation At 1 April 2004 283 5,403 154 5,840 Charge for the year 13 157 170 Impairment 628 Disposals 26 446 12 484 Transfers 144 144 Transfer to held for sale assets 8 8 Exchange differences 2 40 42 At 31 March 2005 268 5,216 5,484 Charge for the year 15 213 228 Impairment 49 76 52 177 Disposals 9 22 31 Transfers 17 17 Exchange differences 584 89 At 31 March 2006 345 5,550 52 5,947 Net book value At 31 March 2006 188 1,020 281 1,489 At 31 March 2005 185 836 247 1,268 Included in the cost of plant and equipment at 31 March 2006 is 16 million 2005 6 million relating to assets held under finance leases.
Accumulated depreciation on these assets is 4 million 2005 1 million.
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction period of certain assets of 3 million 2005 2 million and 45 million 2005 51 million respectively.
An impairment charge of 177 million 2005 8 million was recognised in relation to property, plant and equipment included in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2006.
The 52 million of projects under construction impaired during the year primarily relates to consultancy, IT projects and capitalised labour.
Certain items identified as being fully written down at 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, have been included in cost at nil.
102 2005 06 Annual report 18 Investments in associates and joint ventures Interest in Interest in associates joint ventures Total m m m Gross book value At 1 April 2004 Cost valuation 21 54 75 Equity loans 11 Share of post-acquisition reserves 55 148 203 77 202 279 Investment during the year Net assets 1414 Share of after tax profit 26 22 48 Dividends 14 17 31 Disposals 9 9 Exchange differences 3 7 10 At 31 March 2005 86 205 291 At 1 April 2005 Cost valuation 21 59 80 Equity loans 11 Share of post-acquisition reserves 64 146 210 86 205 291 Investment during the year Net assets 67 13 Share of after tax profit 25 29 54 Dividends 20 20 40 Disposals 1 1 Transfer to non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 105 105 Exchange differences 86 14 At 31 March 2006 226 226 Impairment provision At 1 April 2004 4 42 46 Impairment charge At 31 March 2005 4 42 46 Impairment charge 4 4 At 31 March 2006 4 46 50 Net book value At 31 March 2006 4 180 176 At 31 March 2005 82 163 245 2005 06 Annual report 103 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 Investments in associates and joint ventures are stated using the equity method of accounting.
The investment is comprised of the cost of the investment together with Groups share of post acquisition profits or losses less any impairments.
The Groups aggregated interest in its associates and joint ventures is presented below: 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Associates Non current assets 51 Current assets 50 Non current liabilities 5 2 Current liabilities 18 Share of net assets 5 81 Loan to associates 1 1 4 82 Revenue 63 60 Operating costs 40 36 Operating profits 23 24 Net interest income 2 2 Share of profits before tax 25 26 Taxation charge Dividends paid to Group companies 20 14 Share of retained profits 5 12 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Joint ventures Non current assets 225 157 Current assets 104 72 Non current liabilities 92 17 Current liabilities 57 49 Share of net assets 180 163 Revenue 199 151 Operating costs 165 121 Operating profits 34 30 Net interest financing costs 1 1 Share of profits before tax 33 29 Taxation charge 4 7 Dividends paid to Group companies 20 17 Share of retained profits 9 5 There are no significant restrictions on associates or joint ventures ability to transfer funds to the Group.
The associates and joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interest in joint ventures and associates.
The Groups associates and joint ventures have not discontinued any operations during the year ended 31 March 2006 2005 nil.
104 2005 06 Annual report 19 Investments At 1 April 2005, the Group adopted the International Accounting Standards relating to financial instruments: IAS 32 and IAS 39.
We have applied the exemption given in IFRS 1 which permits non-application of these standards to the comparative figures.
Therefore part a of this note discloses the current year investments under IFRS.
Part b gives the comparative period under the Groups previous GAAP UK GAAP.
a Investments Fair value through Available income statement for sale Total m m m At 31 March 2005 Transferred from trade investments 78 27 105 IAS 39 remeasurement 6363 At 1 April 2005 78 90 168 Disposals 40 15 55 Fair value gain to income statement 11 Fair value gain to equity 1010 Recycling of fair value changes to income statement 70 70 At 31 March 2006 39 15 54 Less Current portion 39 39 Non-current portion 1515 Year end financial investments comprise the following: 31 March 2006 m Listed securities UK Government Gilts 15 Unlisted securities Credit Linked Notes 39 The Group disposed of its holding in MobileOne Limited during the year.
The unlisted investments are not considered to be financial assets and are included in non-current receivables.
The Credit Linked Notes were issued by two AA-rated banks and are aligned with the Companys 2012 bond.
These transactions have a similar economic effect to repurchasing the bonds for the period of the investment.
In return for the Company receiving interest on the Credit Linked Notes, at rates similar to those payable on the underlying bond, the final redemption to be received by the Company would be less than face value if a credit event, as defined in the terms of the notes, occurs in respect of Cable and Wireless plc.
Reflecting the terms of the underlying bond, credit events in the notes are as follows: Bankruptcy: Failure to make any payment due under any of its debt obligations, after expiration of any grace period and subject to a threshold of 25 million: and Restructuring of any of its debt subject to a threshold of 25 million.
If a credit event should take place, the counterparties to the Credit Linked Notes are entitled to deliver to Cable and Wireless plc its own bonds or debt obligations with a face value equivalent to that of the Credit Linked Notes, or a cash amount equal to the market value thereof.
b i Non-current trade investments m Cost At 1 April 2004 94 Business combinations 2 Additions 2 Disposals 42 Exchange differences 1 At 31 March 2005 55 Provisions and amounts written off At 31 March 2005 22 Trade investments at 31 March 2005 33 2005 06 Annual report 105 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 Year end financial investments comprise the following: 31 March 2005 m Listed securities MobileOne Limited 15 UK Government Gilts 12 Unlisted securities Other 6 b ii Current trade investments 31 March 2005 m Cost At 1 April 2004 50 Additions Credit Linked Notes 80 Disposals Credit Linked Notes 50 At 31 March 2005 80 A provision of 2 million reflecting a temporary reduction in value was held at 31 March 2005.
20 Trade and other receivables 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Trade receivables 661 677 Other debtors 145 128 Prepayments and accrued income 248 128 Taxation and social security receivables 5 4 Lease receivables 1 1 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 8 4 Total gross amounts 1,068 942 Less provision against receivables 81 94 Total trade and other receivables 987 848 Non-current portion 43 43 Current portion of trade and other receivables 944 805 Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated.
The provision comprises 81 million 2005 94 million related to trade receivables.
An impairment charge of 19 million 2005 bad debt provision charge of 24 million incurred in the normal course of business is recognised as pre-exceptional in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2006.
All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless products and services, network and access charges.
There were no material transactions with joint ventures and associated companies during the year.
On 1 April 2005, the Group adopted the International Accounting Standards relating to financial instruments: IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Accordingly, trade receivables at 31 March 2006 are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, while comparative period disclosures remain under the Groups previous GAAP.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of receivables at 31 March 2006.
106 2005 06 Annual report 21 Inventory Inventories are presented net of a provision of 13 million 2005 10 million against slowing moving or obsolete items.
The cost of consumables and accessories held for sale included in operating costs is 274 million 2005 256 million.
During the year, the Group recorded additional inventory provisions of a net 3 million 2005 1 million.
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Groups borrowings.
22 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents typically include bank deposits, money market funds, commercial paper and government securities.
These deposits generally have short maturities not exceeding one year.
31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Cash in bank and hand 371 125 Short-term bank deposits 756 1,896 1,127 2,021 Short-term bank deposits include money market and fixed income instruments, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice.
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits is 4.6% 2005 4.7%.
These deposits have an average maturity of 71 days 2005 145 days.
Included within cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year is an amount of 17 million 2005 30 million held by the Groups insurance subsidiary, Pender.
This amount is pledged against potential future claims arising from insurance written in prior years.
As such, it is not readily available for the general purposes of the Group.
Due to the lack of foreign exchange reserves, the Group cannot generally remit earnings from its Seychelles subsidiary.
As such, cash totalling 60 million 2005 55 million held by this subsidiary has been excluded from the Group balance.
Included within short-term deposits is 33 million 2005 42 million which is pledged as cash collateral against bank loans and guarantees.
23 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale At the end of the year the Groups interest in Bahrain Telecommunications Company BSC Batelco had been identified as non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 2005 C&W Spain and the Sakhalin Operations.
The Group announced on 22 February 2006 its intention to dispose of its 20% interest in Batelco.
The assets and liabilities of these businesses are carried in the balance sheet at the lower of carrying value or expected proceeds less disposal costs as set out below: 2005 06 2004 05 m m Non-current assets held for sale Investments in associates 105 Total non-current assets held for sale 105 Assets of disposal groups held for sale Property, plant and equipment 5 Other current assets 13 Total assets of disposal groups held for sale 18 Total assets held for sale 105 18 Liabilities directly associated with disposal groups held for sale Trade and other payables 4 4 The above assets and liabilities represent those which the Group is committed to dispose of at 31 March 2006, and were available for immediate sale at that date.
The market value of non-current assets, for which there are published price quotations, is 335 million 2005 386 million, which relates to the market value of the Groups interest in Batelco.
The disposal groups C&W Spain and the Sakhalin Operations were sold during the year ended 31 March 2006.
The proceeds and gain on disposal are disclosed in Note 12.
2005 06 Annual report 107 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 24 Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Trade payables 475 430 Payments received on account 4 4 Other taxation and social security 61 38 Other creditors 142 189 Accruals 501 568 Deferred income 198 64 1,381 1,293 Less non-current portion Trade and other payables current portion 1,381 1,293 On 1 April 2005, the Group adopted the International Accounting Standards relating to financial instruments: IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Accordingly, March 2006 trade payables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, while comparative period disclosures remain under the Groups previous GAAP.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables at 31 March 2006.
25 Loans and obligations under finance leases On 1 April 2005, the Group adopted the International Accounting Standards relating to financial instruments: IAS 32 and IAS 39.
One impact of this adoption has been to reduce the principal value of the convertible bond as at 1 April 2005 by 60 million and to recognise a derivative liability of 47 million.
We have applied the exemption given n IFRS 1 which permits non-application of these standards to the comparative figures.
Therefore, the current year 2006 disclosures below have been prepared under IFRS applying IAS 32 and IAS 39, but the comparative year 2005 disclosures have been prepared under the Groups previous GAAP UK GAAP.
31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Loans and bonds 4% convertible unsecured bond due end 2010 202 252 Sterling repayable at various dates up to 2019 364 379 US dollars repayable at various dates up to 2038 82 84 Euro loan repayable in 2006 106 106 Other currencies repayable at various dates up to 2017 1 1 755 822 Less current portion 134 22 Non-current portion of loans and convertible bonds 621 800 Finance lease payables Obligations under finance leases 29 2 Less current portion 9 1 Non-current portion of obligations under finance leases 20 1 Total non-current portion of loans and obligations under finance leases 641 801 Total current portion of loans and obligations under finance leases 143 23 Other than a portion of the 33 million 2005 42 million of cash held as collateral against certain bank loans the Groups borrowings are not secured.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to two and a half times the capital and reserves of the Group.
108 2005 06 Annual report The payment profile of loans and obligations is: 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Loans and bonds Due in less than one year 134 22 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 11 142 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 228 29 Due in more than five years 382 629 Total loans and convertible bonds 755 822 Finance leases minimum lease payments Due in less than one year 11 1 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 11 1 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 12 Total obligations under finance leases 34 2 Less future finance charges on finance leases 5 Present value of finance lease liabilities 29 2 The present value of net finance lease liabilities is as follows: 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Due in less than one year 9 1 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 9 1 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 11 Due in more than five years Present value of finance lease liabilities 29 2 Interest is payable on loans and obligations falling due after more than five years at rates of between 5.25% and 8.75%.
Convertible unsecured bond On 16 July 2003, 257,714,000 4% convertible unsecured bonds were issued at par.
Each bond entitles the holder to convert the conversion amount of such bond into fully paid Ordinary Shares of 25 pence each at the rate of 457.930 Ordinary Shares for each 1,000 held at an initial conversion price of 1.45 per Ordinary Share at any time prior to 9 July 2010.
Full conversion of the bonds would result in an additional 177,733,748 shares being issued.
The bond also has a take-over protection clause, which adjusts the share conversion price, pro-rated over the life of the bond, in the event of a change of control.
Also, after 16 July 2007, if Cable & Wireless share price exceeds an amount calculated in accordance with the terms and conditions for a specified number of days, Cable & Wireless has the right to give not less than 30 days and not more than 90 days notice that it will redeem all unconverted bonds still outstanding on a given date at par plus accrued interest.
If the bonds have not been converted, purchased and cancelled or redeemed by 16 July 2010 they will be redeemed at par on that date.
Prior to 1 April 2005, the finance costs charged in the profit and loss accounts comprise the aggregate of the coupon and the proportion of issue costs that relate to the financial year.
On the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 at 1 April 2005 the fair value of the liability component and the equity conversion component was determined as at the date of issue of the bond.
The fair value of the liability component, included in long-term borrowings, was calculated using an interest rate of 10.7% for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
At 1 April 2005, the debt element was reduced by 60 million primarily reflecting the unamortised value of the conversion option.
The debt element is accounted for on an amortised cost basis.
The conversion option and takeover protection feature were marked to market at 1 April 2005 and recognised on balance sheet giving rise to a derivative liability of 62 million.
As at this date, the derivative elements were carried on a fair value basis with changes in value being taken to the income statement.
This was required by IAS 39 because, when originally issued, the convertible bonds included a cash settlement option whereby the Company had the right to settle part of any conversion with cash rather than shares.
Subsequent to 1 April 2005 this cash settlement option was removed and the conversion option reclassified as a component of equity hence it is no longer revalued through the income statement.
2005 06 Annual report 109 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 The convertible bond is recognised on the balance sheet as follows: m Face value of convertible bond issued on 16 July 2003 258 Issue costs 6 Equity conversion component on initial recognition 75 Previous years amortisation of the liability component 15 Liability component on 1 April 2005 192 Interest expense 20 Interest paid 10 Liability component at 31 March 2006 202 Interest expense on the bond is calculated on the effective yield basis by applying the effective interest rate 10.7% for an equivalent non-convertible bond to the liability component of the convertible bond.
The cash coupon paid on the convertible bond is unchanged at 4% per annum.
Sterling loans The Group has the following sterling loans: a 200 million listed bond due in 2012 with a balance at 31 March 2006, net of costs, of 184 million 2005 184 million.
Interest is payable at 8.75% per annum annually.
During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group repurchased but did not cancel 16 million of this bond at an average price of 101.625 pence.
b 200 million listed bond due in 2019 with a balance at 31 March 2006, net of costs, of 180 million 2005 180 million.
Interest is payable at 8.625% per annum annually.
During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group repurchased but did not cancel 19.9 million of bond at an average price of 99.83 pence.
US dollar loans Various US dollar based loans of approximately 82 million 2005 84 million held by various subsidiaries across the Group.
Interest on these loans ranges between 3% and 7.8%.
The loans are repayable over a period up to 2038.
Euro loans a European Investment Bank Loan with a balance at 31 March 2006, net of costs, of 106 million 2005 106 million.
This loan bears interest at LIBOR minus 0.15% and interest is payable quarterly.
26 Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial investments are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet of Cable & Wireless from 1 April 2005, the date of adoption of IAS 39.
The fair value of the Groups derivative financial investments is presented below.
31 March 2006 m Liabilities current Cross currency swaps 15 Cross currency swaps The Group has a Euro denominated loan the Loan and a related euro-sterling cross currency swap the Swap with terms matching those of the Loan.
Under UK GAAP, the Loan and Swap were accounted for as if they were a single loan denominated in sterling.
Under IFRS the components have been separated.
The Loan has been translated at the closing rate at 31 March 2006 giving rise to a reduction in the balance of 15 million.
The Swap was marked to market at the same date and recognised on balance sheet giving rise to a derivative liability of 15 million.
The Group has not applied hedge accounting to the Loan and Swap.
Both the Loan and Swap are revalued at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on the instruments which will materially offset each other are recognised in the income statement.
Forward currency purchases The Group has a forward exchange contract matching US$44 million deposits held as cash collateral against certain bank guarantees.
The Group has not applied hedge accounting to the deposits and the forward exchange contract.
Both the deposits and forward exchange contract are revalued at each balance sheet date.
110 2005 06 Annual report 27 Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups loans and obligations under finance leases.
Market values obtained from third parties have been used to determine the fair value of cross currency swaps, the convertible bond, Euro loan, sterling repayable and the US dollar loan.
All other financial liabilities have a short maturity in which case the carrying amount has been used.
Carrying amount Fair value 31 March 31 March 2006 2006 m m Financial liabilities Convertible bond 202 228 Sterling repayable at various dates up to 2019 364 371 US dollars repayable at various dates up to 2038 82 82 Euro loan repayable in 2006 106 106 Other currencies repayable at various dates up to 2017 1 1 Obligations under finance leases 29 29 Cross currency swap 15 15 At 31 March 2006, the effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: Currency Interest rate % 4% convertible unsecured bond due end 2010 10.7 Sterling repayable at various dates up to 2019 8.7 US dollars repayable at various dates up to 2038 US$ Floating Other currencies repayable at various dates up to 2017 Other Floating Short-term loans and overdrafts Other Floating Obligations under finance leases 9.2 The carrying amounts of the Groups cash and short-term investments and loans and borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 March 31 March 2006 2006 financial financial assets liabilities m m Sterling 783 581 US dollar 115 82 Euro 114 106 Other currencies 115 1 1,127 770 2005 06 Annual report 111 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 28 Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax and liabilities during the year are as follows: Capital allowances on Balance non-current sheet assets Tax losses Pensions Other offset Total m m m m m m Deferred tax assets 21 26 29 Deferred tax liabilities 42 5 2 49 At 1 April 2005 21 3 4 20 Profit and loss charge 17 12 5 3 13 Tax charged to equity 2 2 Exchange adjustments 1 111 At 31 March 2006 39 13 10 2 34 Deferred tax assets 17 13 1 7 21 17 Deferred tax liabilities 56 11 5 21 51 At 31 March 2006 39 13 10 2 34 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences: Capital allowances on non-current assets Tax losses Pensions Other Total m m m m m At 1 April 2005 1,841 12,058 295 158 14,352 At 31 March 2006 3,666 12,330 121 91 16,208 Tax losses of 17 million 2005 nil expire within one year, 16 million 2005 nil expire within three years, 48 million 2005 65 million expire within five years, 19 million 2005 nil expire within ten years and 64 million 2005 15 million expire after more than ten years.
Other deferred tax assets are not subject to expiry.
The 12,330 million 2005 12,058 million losses principally arise in overseas holding companies in which the opportunity to realise benefits therefrom is considered remote.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates where the Group controls the timing of remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of unremitted earnings on which no provision has been made is 2,829 million 2005 2,713 million.
112 2005 06 Annual report 29 Provisions for liabilities and charges Network and asset Redundancy retirement Property costs obligations Other Total m m m m m At 1 April 2004 151 27 127 63 368 Charged to income statement additional provision 54 68 26 80 228 amounts used 66 30 18 114 unused amounts reversed 20 6 25 7 44 Acquisitions 27 27 Discount adjustment 11 Exchange adjustments 11 At 31 March 2005 119 59 112 177 467 Less current portion 60 57 48 114 279 Non-current portion 59 2 64 63 188 Charged to income statement additional provision 443231989 amounts used 43 57 27 53 180 unused amounts reversed 28 9 41 53 131 Acquisitions 3 21 10 34 Discount adjustment 33 Exchange adjustments At 31 March 2006 55 36 91 100 282 Less current portion 636113689 Non-current portion 49 80 64 193 Property Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sub-let.
The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Redundancy Provision has been made for the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to 1 April 2006.
Agreement had been reached with the local employee representatives that specified the number of staff involved and quantified the total amounts payable to those made redundant.
The provision is expected to be used within one year.
Network and asset retirement obligations Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity.
Provision has also been made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, domestic and sub sea cabling.
This provision is expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arises.
Other Other provisions include amounts relating to the disposal of the previously discontinued US businesses, amounts relating to specific claims held against the Groups insurance subsidiary Pender and amounts relating to acquisitions and disposals of Group companies and investments.
The reversal of unused amounts reflect the resolution of claims and other risks during the year.
30 Retirement benefits obligations The Company and its principal subsidiaries operate pension and other retirement schemes, which cover the majority of employees in the Group.
These schemes include both defined benefit schemes, where retirement benefits are based on the employees remuneration and length of service, and defined contribution schemes, where retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect of, employees.
Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries who value the schemes.
Defined contribution schemes The pension cost for the year for the defined contribution schemes was 9 million 2005 12 million.
2005 06 Annual report 113 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 Defined benefit schemes UK main scheme funding valuation The latest triennial actuarial valuation was carried out by Watson Wyatt Limited as at 31 March 2005.
The projected unit method was used and the principal actuarial assumptions adopted were that the annual rate of inflation would be 2.7% and that future increases in pensionable earnings would be 3.7% per annum: investments held in respect of pensions before they become payable would average 6.6% annual rate of return: investments held in respect of pensions after they become payable would average 5.25% annual rate of return: and pensions would increase at an annual rate of 3% for fixed guarantee pensions and 2.7% for inflation related pensions.
As at 31 March 2005 the mid-market value of the assets of the defined benefit section of the scheme was 1,610 million and the value of the assets represented approximately 95% of the actuarial value of benefits due to members calculated on the basis of pensionable earnings and service at 31 March 2005 on an ongoing basis and allowing for projected increases in pensionable earnings.
The latest generally adopted mortality tables were used for the funding valuation, adjusted to reflect the schemes actual experience, and including an allowance for future improvements in life expectancy.
Under these assumptions the average life expectancy is 26.5 years for a man aged 60 and 28.1 years for a woman aged 60.
A one year increase or decrease in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased or decreased the scheme liabilities by around 40 million.
A 0.25% change in the assumed rate of return on scheme investments would have increased or decreased the funding required by around 86 million.
A 0.25% change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have increased or decreased the funding required by around 7 million.
The actuarial valuation showed that based on long-term financial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet future benefit accrual was 25% of pensionable earnings 20.3% employers and 4.7% employees.
This contribution rate will be reviewed when the next independent actuarial valuation is carried out, which will be based on the position at 31 March 2008.
The terms of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund Trust Deed also allow the Trustees or the Company to call for a valuation at any time.
The future service contribution rate does not include an allowance for administration expense or the Pension Protection Fund PPF levy.
Contributions to meet these costs are reviewed annually.
From 1 April 2005 contributions equal to 2% of pensionable earnings have been paid to cover the administration costs and PPF levy.
Employers therefore paid a total contribution rate of 22.3% in 2005 06, or 13.4 million.
The actuarial valuation revealed that the deficit at 31 March 2005 was 81 million in the defined benefit section on the basis of the funding assumptions adopted by the actuary.
The 98 million contribution made to the scheme by Cable & Wireless on 31 March 2006 was calculated on the basis of the 81 million deficit at 31 March 2005, together with the investment returns that would have been made during the year to 31 March 2006 had the contribution been made at the valuation date, and the back-dating of the increased employers contribution rate to the valuation date.
As a result of the 98 million contribution the scheme is fully funded on an ongoing basis, based on the 2005 valuation.
The Occupational Pension Schemes scheme funding Regulations 2005 did not apply to the 31 March 2005 valuation, but will apply to future funding valuations.
IAS 19 valuation The actuarial valuations of the major defined benefit schemes and medical plans operated by the Group have been updated to 31 March 2006 by qualified independent actuaries for all subsidiaries.
Watson Wyatt Limited prepared the valuation for the UK main scheme and unfunded schemes, and reviewed the actuarial valuations prepared for subsidiaries.
The main financial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes assets are as follows.
Other schemes include unfunded liabilities in the UK relating to pension provisions for former Directors and other senior employees in respect to their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap.
Also included are the Groups overseas schemes in Macau, Jamaica, Barbados, Guernsey, Hong Kong, Ireland and the US.
UK main scheme Other Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Year ended 31 March 2006 m % m % Inflation assumption 2.8 4.4 Salary increases 3.3 6.3 Pension increases 2.8-3.0 3.0 Discount rate 4.9 7.5 Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Equities 995 7.5 83 8.2 Bonds and gilts 715 4.5 39 5.4 Property 131 6.0 31 6.9 Cash Other 137 4.3 83 5.2 1,978 236 114 2005 06 Annual report UK main scheme Other Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Year ended 31 March 2005 m % m % Inflation assumption 2.7 3.9 Salary increases 3.2 5.9 Pension increases 2.7-3.0 2.9 Discount rate 5.4 7.2 Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Equities 877 8.0 75 8.3 Bonds and gilts 539 4.9 52 6.2 Property 92 6.5 24 5.2 Other 103 4.0 64 4.6 1,611 215 The UK main scheme assumptions used by the actuaries are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The assumptions shown above for Other represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes.
The assumptions are more conservative than those used to prepare the 2005 funding valuation for the UK main scheme.
The overall expected rate of return for each pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class.
The expected asset return for each asset class has been set as a best estimate of the long-term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the country in question having regard to investment yields on the measurement date.
The UK main defined benefit scheme is closed to new entrants and under the projected unit method, all else remaining constant, for closed schemes the current service cost will increase as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group are presented below: 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 UK main UK main scheme Other Total scheme Other Total m m m m m m Total fair value of plan assets 1,978 236 2,214 1,611 215 1,826 Present value of funded obligations 2,067 200 2,267 1,787 175 1,962 Excess of liabilities of funded obligations 89 36 53 176 40 136 Present value of unfunded obligations 38 38 31 31 Effect of asset ceiling 11 11 34 34 Net deficit in defined benefit schemes 89 13 102 176 25 201 Retirement benefit obligations 89 54 143 176 51 227 Retirement benefit assets 41 41 2626 Included within this liability is an amount of 15 million 2005 13 million to cover the cost of former Directors pension entitlements.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 UK main UK main scheme Other Total scheme Other Total m m m m m m Current service cost 16 5 21 20 6 26 Interest cost 95 14 109 94 13 107 Expected return on plan assets 105 19 124 97 16 113 Losses gains on curtailment or settlement 1 2 1 Total expense 6 6 18 1 19 The defined benefit expense has been included in employee benefit expenses note 7.
The actual return on plan assets was 330 million 2005 171 million.
2005 06 Annual report 115 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 Net actuarial losses amounting to 32 million 2005 actuarial gain 85 million have been recognised directly in equity and are presented in the statement of recognised income and expenses.
In addition a gain of 23 million 2005 loss of 9 million has been recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses due to the change in the effect of the asset ceiling.
The total amount recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses in the current financial year and cumulatively to 31 March 2006 is an expense of 9 million 2005 income 76 million and income of 67 million 2005 76 million respectively.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: UK main scheme Other Total m m m Obligation at 1 April 2004 1,758 207 1,965 Service cost 20 6 26 Interest cost 94 13 107 Actuarial gains losses recognised in equity 36 9 27 Employee contributions 4 2 6 Liabilities extinguished due to divestiture 99 Settlement curtailments 1 2 1 Exchange differences on foreign plans 44 Benefits paid 54 16 70 Obligation at 31 March 2005 1,787 206 1,993 Service cost 16 5 21 Interest cost 95 14 109 Actuarial losses recognised in equity 224 14 238 Employee contributions 3 2 5 Exchange differences on foreign plans 6 6 Benefits paid 58 9 67 Obligation at 31 March 2006 2,067 238 2,305 Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets are as follows: UK main scheme Other Total m m m Fair value of assets as at 1 April 2004 1,406 192 1,598 Expected return 97 16 113 Actuarial gains recognised in equity 43 15 58 Contributions by employer 115 12 127 Employee contributions 426 Exchange differences on foreign plans 6 6 Benefits paid 54 16 70 Fair value of assets as at 31 March 2005 1,611 215 1,826 Expected return 105 19 124 Actuarial gains recognised in equity 206 206 Contributions by employer 111 4 115 Employee contributions 325 Exchange differences on foreign plans 55 Benefits paid 58 9 67 Fair value of assets as at 31 March 2006 1,978 236 2,214 Experience gains for the period: 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 UK main UK main scheme Other scheme Other Year ended 31 March m m m m Defined benefit obligation 2,067 238 1,787 206 Plan assets 1,978 236 1,611 215 Deficit surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 89 2 176 9 Experience loss gain on plan liabilities 15 14 36 9 Experience gain adjustments on plan assets 206 43 15 116 2005 06 Annual report The best estimate of contributions for the following year is: 2006 07 UK Other Total m m m Employer contributions excluding one-off contributions 12 2 14 Employee contributions 314 31 Share capital 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Authorised 2006 and 2005 3,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 25p each 875 875 Issued, called up and fully paid 605 599 2006 2,421,046,668 Ordinary Shares of 25p each 2005 2,394,822,240 Ordinary Shares of 25p each Number of shares m Issued, called up and fully paid At 1 April 2004 2,385,467,990 596 Allotted under share options scheme 6,328,947 2 Allotted under scrip dividends 3,025,303 1 At 31 March 2005 2,394,822,240 599 Allotted under share options scheme 16,731,953 4 Allotted under scrip dividends 9,492,475 2 At 31 March 2006 2,421,046,668 605 The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was 6.6 million 2005 2.3 million.
The Company repurchased 14.45 million shares 2005 60.5 million shares, representing 0.6% 2005 2.53% of issued share capital at 31 March 2006, during the year for consideration of 17.4 million 2005 75 million.
None of these shares were cancelled as at 31 March 2006.
The nominal value and market value of treasury shares held at 31 March 2006 was 18.7 million 2005 15 million and 81.9 million 2005 78.2 million, respectively.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, each share other than those held in treasury entitles the holder to one vote at General Meetings of Cable & Wireless.
The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Allotments of Ordinary Shares of 25p each were made during the year in respect of the following: 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 Gross Gross Number of consideration Number of consideration allotted shares received allotted shares received Savings Related Share Option Scheme 8,699,598 3,574,305 1,499,690 678,675 Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2,463,200 1,221,971 408,757 305,970 Share Option Plan Approved 78,495 90,001 28,929 29,999 Share Option Plan Unapproved 5,490,660 5,908,034 4,391,571 4,558,778 1 1 Scrip dividends 9,492,475 3,025,303 Total 26,224,428 10,794,311 9,354,250 5,573,422 1 Scrip dividends with a cash equivalent value of 12,156,491 2005 3,368,237 were issued during the year.
2005 06 Annual report 117 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 32 Share premium and other reserves Foreign currency Share Treasury Special Other Fair value translation Retained premium shares reserve reserves reserve reserve earnings Total m m m m m m m m At 1 April 2004 2 152 1,745 105 986 714 Premium on shares issued during the year 6 9 96 Own shares purchased 75 75 ESOP Trust shares issued to satisfy share awards 3 3 Profit for the year 294 294 Fair value adjustment on sale of investment 2 2 Actuarial gains recognised net of deferred taxation 73 73 Foreign currency translation reserves 39 39 Recycled translation reserves on disposal of subsidiary 33 Share-based payment costs 10 10 Dividends 100 100 At 31 March 2005 8 224 1,736 105 36 705 884 Adoption of IAS 32 39 32 13 45 Premium on shares issued during the year 16 22 22 16 Own shares purchased 17 17 ESOP Trust shares issued to satifsy share awards 10 10 Conversion element of convertible bond transferred to equity 47 47 Profit for the year 79 79 Fair value gain on available for sale assets 77 Fair value gain on available for sale assets recycled to income statement 36 36 Actuarial gains recognised net of deferred taxation 10 10 Foreign currency translation reserves 48 48 Share-based payment costs 14 14 Dividends 92 92 At 31 March 2006 24 231 1,714 152 3 12 689 985 Treasury shares Treasury shares relate to shares held in the Company directly or indirectly by the Group and include those shares held by the Groups Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust ESOP Trust.
Special reserve The special reserve relates to the cancellation of share premium account approved by the Company at the 2003 AGM and confirmed by the Court in February 2004.
It is reduced from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid up share capital and share premium account of the Company after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration or upon a capitalisation of distributable reserves.
The special reserve will not be treated as realised profits of the Company until any debt or claim against the Company outstanding as at 20 February 2004 has been repaid or remedied.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than that of the Company.
Other reserves Other reserves include a capital redemption reserve of 105 million 2005 105 million and an equity reserve of 47 million 2005 nil resulting from the transfer of the conversion element of the Groups convertible bond from derivative financial instruments to equity.
118 2005 06 Annual report 33 Share-based payments Share option schemes The share option schemes operating as at 31 March 2006 or having options outstanding as at this date, are as follows: Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Global savings related share option scheme Under the Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme SAYE scheme, UK employees can enter a savings contract with a bank to save regular monthly sums of between 5 and 250 for a period of either three, five or seven years.
At the end of the savings contract, the participant receives interest from the bank on their savings.
The savings and the interest may then be used to exercise an option over Ordinary Shares of the Company, which are issued at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Companys Ordinary Shares at the date of grant.
The Company has extended the SAYE scheme to its overseas employees by the Cable & Wireless Global savings related share option scheme GSAYE scheme.
The GSAYE scheme is offered in various of the Groups territories excluding the UK and it operates along similar lines to the SAYE scheme with local variations to accommodate local legal and tax consideration.
The SAYE was last offered in June 2004 and GSAYE was last offered in December 2004.
Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Senior employees share option scheme Prior to July 2001, Cable & Wireless granted share options under the Cable & Wireless Senior employees share option scheme SESOS and the Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme RESOS.
Options awarded under these plans between June 1999 and July 2001 are subject to performance conditions based on Cable & Wireless TSR performance relative to the FTSE 100 Index, underpinned by real growth in EBITDA and turnover.
TSR is share price growth adjusted for dividends and capital actions.
TSR performance is averaged over a three-month period at the beginning and end of the performance period.
This moderates the effect of short-term share price volatility.
For full vesting, Cable & WirelessTSR must achieve at least upper quartile level against the FTSE 100 between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Half vesting applies for TSR at the median level, with a sliding scale between median and upper quartile.
If the performance conditions are not met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the options lapse.
As at the date of this report, none of these options have achieved their performance conditions.
Options granted under RESOS and SESOS before June 1999 became exercisable if growth in Companys published earnings per share excluding exceptional items measured over any period of three consecutive financial years, commencing not earlier than the financial year in which the option was granted, exceeded by not less than 6% of the percentage growth of the Retail Price Index over the same three-year period.
All such options became exercisable in full.
No further grants will be made under the RESOS and SESOS plans.
Cable & Wireless Share option plan approved and unapproved The level of any share option award is determined by the Remuneration Committee each year by reference to total remuneration within a market peer group, subject to an overriding annual limit of ten times salary for Executive Directors.
The vesting of share options awarded to the Executive Directors and to all employees outside the US is subject to relative TSR performance conditions.
For options granted before May 2004, full vesting occurs only if the TSR performance of the Company meets or exceeds the upper quartile between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Where TSR performance meets the median, 50% of the initial award vests.
A sliding scale operates between median and upper quartile, and nothing vests for TSR performance below the median.
If performance conditions have not been met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the options lapse.
For options granted from May 2004, the re-testing of performance conditions for share options granted from that date will cease.
If performance conditions for these options have not been met by the third anniversary of the date of grant the option lapses.
For options granted from June 2005, 33.33% of options vest where TSR performance meets the median and if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the group warrants the release of the shares.
Performance conditions are applied in determining the level of awards to employees in the US, but do not normally apply to the vesting of such awards.
In addition, 25% of awards to employees in the US vest on the first anniversary of the date of the grant with a further 25% on each subsequent anniversary.
These terms reflect normal practice in the US.
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust The Cable & Wireless ESOP Trust is a discretionary trust, which has been funded by loans from the Company to acquire shares in Cable and Wireless plc.
At 31 March 2006 the Trust holds 50,990,339 shares with a cost of 139 million and a market value of 56 million.
The costs of running the Trust are included in the profit and loss account as they accrue.
The Trustees of the plan may notionally allocate Ordinary Shares in the Company annually to Executive Directors or other senior executives and other key staff.
Shares are held in trust until such time as they may be transferred to employees in accordance with the terms of the Performance share plan, the Restricted share plan, the Deferred short-term incentive plan and the Share option plan, details of which are given below.
The shares will be provided from existing Ordinary Shares in issue acquired by the Trustees.
Surplus shares may be held to satisfy future awards.
The Trust has waived its rights to dividends.
At 31 March 2006, there were 2,069,870 shares under contingent awards in relation to the Performance share plan, 19,070,363 shares under restricted share awards in relation to the 2005 06 Annual report 119 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 Restricted share plan, 245,636 shares under the Deferred bonus plan, 1,752,339 shares under the Deferred short-term incentive plan, 280,392 shares under the Stock appreciation rights plan, and 24,557,918 shares under options in relation to the Share option plan.
Other equity instrument awards Deferred short-term incentive plan Deferred STIP The Deferred STIP is designed to encourage participants to invest in shares to align their interests more closely with those of shareholders.
Under this plan any bonus deferred is used to purchase shares in the Company, which are held in trust for three years before being released to the participant.
Participants may also be awarded up to two matching shares for every one purchased share based on the relative TSR performance of the Company measured over a three-year period see Performance conditions for share-based awards.
A dividend award supplement also operates on the Deferred STIP.
Dividends that would have been paid on the purchased shares and the actual award of matching shares during the performance period are reinvested in additional shares.
For the 2005 06 financial year, Executive Directors were able to elect to pay up to two-thirds of any net annual bonus and senior executives could elect to pay up to one-third of any net bonus into the Deferred STIP.
Conditional matching shares were awarded on a gross basis i. e. for every 100 of net bonus invested in the Deferred STIP, participants have the potential to receive matching shares with a face value on grant of 333.
Deferred bonus scheme Executive Directors and selected senior executives were able voluntarily to defer between 10% and 50% of their post-tax senior management bonus to purchase shares in the Company, which will be held in Trust.
Half of the purchased shares will be held in Trust for a two-year deferral period and the remaining half will be held in Trust for a three-year deferral period.
Participants will be awarded matching shares when the purchased shares vest at the end of the deferral periods.
No award has been made under the deferred bonus scheme since June 2004.
Performance share plan PSP Under the PSP, Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The plan rules limit the value of shares that can be granted to an individual in any year to 100% of salary.
The vesting of performance shares is subject to relative TSR performance conditions see Performance conditions for share based awards.
A dividend award supplement operates on the PSP.
Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares, which vest, will be regarded as having been re-invested in additional shares.
Restricted share plan RSP The RSP provides for awards of restricted shares to executives and selected employees below the Executive Directors, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool to compensate for the forfeiture of long-term incentive arrangements when transferring to the Company.
50% of any restricted shares awarded under this plan vest after one year with the remaining 50% vesting after three years.
During the year, the restricted share plan was also used to award matching shares with performance conditions to Executive Directors who invested their own funds into Company shares.
Attainment of these matching shares is dependent on the Executive continuing to hold the invested shares and on meeting the required TSR performance conditions.
100% of any shares awarded under this plan vest after three years.
Performance conditions for share based awards TSR is the main performance measure used in the share option plan, the Deferred STIP and the PSP as it provides an objective external measure of financial performance.
The Remuneration Committee considers that it is important to measure and reward relative performance against an appropriate set of companies.
The Companys relative TSR performance is assessed against a comparator group comprising the FTSE Global Telecoms Sector Index FTSE GTSI, which provides a global benchmark of independently selected industry peers.
Awards vest depending upon the Companys TSR ranking relative to the comparator group at the end of a single three-year performance period.
Cash-based awards Stock appreciation rights plan SARs The SARs is used to exactly replicate the plans described above but rewards are delivered as a cash equivalent.
It is used in exceptional cases for countries in which tax or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share options.
120 2005 06 Annual report Other schemes Cable & Wireless share purchase plan The Company also offers its employees who are chargeable to income tax, under Section 15 Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003, the Cable & Wireless share purchase plan the Plan which is a Revenue approved share incentive plan.
Under the Plan, employees can contribute up to a value of 1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year whichever is the lower, to buy partnership shares in the Company.
Shares are held in a UK resident trust and can be withdrawn from the trust at any time, but there may be pay as you earn taxation and national insurance contributions payable in such events if the shares have not been held in the trust for five years.
Dividends on the partnership shares are reinvested in additional Dividend Shares.
Share options Options are exercised on a regular basis throughout the year.
Options exercised during the year ended 31 March 2006 resulted in 18.7 million shares 31 March 2005 6.3 million shares being issued at the average exercise price of 69p each 31 March 2005 88p each.
The related market weighted average share price at the time of the exercise was 125p per share 31 March 2005 117p per share.
The weighted average fair value, at measurement date, of the 14 million 2005 26 million options granted during the year ended 31 March 2006 was 34.41 pence 2005 30.17 pence.
The Company computes the fair value of its share option awards using the Black-Scholes-Merton formula model for the Savings related and Global savings related share option schemes and the Monte Carlo pricing model for the share option plans Approved, Unapproved and US.
2005 06 Annual report 121 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 The following assumptions were used in the fair value exercise as at 31 March 2006 for the options granted during 2006: 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 Monte Carlo Black Scholes Monte Carlo Black Scholes Weighted average share price 128.83 109.18p 122.32p Weighted average exercise price 130.86 111.2p 98.14p Dividend yield 3.4%-3.9% 3.6% 3.6% Expected volatility 27.9%-39.6% 39.4%-47.4% 32.9%-47.7% Risk-free interest rates 4.1%-4.4% 4.6%-5.1% 4.4%-5.1% Expected lives of the options 4 4 3-7 The expected volatility was determined based on the statistical analysis of daily shares prices over a historical period equal to the expected lives of the options.
During 2002 and 2003, significant restructuring was carried out at Cable & Wireless and the Directors consider the share price volatility over that period is unrepresentative of future volatility.
Accordingly, for the purposes of calculating historical volatility and share price correlations Cable & Wireless share price movements from 1 August 2002 to 31 December 2003 have been replaced with a synthetic stock.
This synthetic stock takes as a starting point the share price of Cable & Wireless on 31 July 2002.
The daily share price movements then track the average daily share price movements of six companies from the FTSE GTSI from that time until 31 December 2003.
From 31 December 2003 onwards the daily share price movements track the actual daily share price movements of Cable & Wireless.
The companies used to derive this synthetic share price were selected as those whose daily share price returns were most closely correlated with those of Cable & Wireless prior to and immediately after the synthetic period.
The synthetic Cable & Wireless share price was not used other than for calculating share price volatility and share price correlations.
Share price correlations and volatilities were calculated using daily return data for Cable & Wireless including the synthetic data for the relevant period and, where relevant, other comparator companies.
Performance and other market conditions attached to awards were reflected in the calculation of fair value as part of the Monte Carlo simulations.
Other awards Awards granted during 2006 Weighted average Features incorporated Award Shares fair value in schemes DSTIP 1,361,186 119.00 TSR conditions RSP 17,694,393 118.52 PSP 2,102,358 56.41 TSR conditions Awards granted during 2005 Weighted average Features incorporated Award Shares fair value in schemes DSTIP 461,806 73.95 TSR conditions DBS 848,706 127.00 RSP 721,950 106.21 RSP matching performance shares 706,400 54.96 TSR conditions No share-based payment arrangements were modified during the period.
The total expense relating to share-based payments which are all equity settled transactions was 14 million 2005 11 million.
As the Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2, the charge only includes grants made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 January 2005.
122 2005 06 Annual report 34 Minority interests m Balance brought forward at 1 April 2004 202 New acquisitions 64 Share of total recognised income and expenditure for the year 59 Dividends paid 28 Disposals 2 Balance as at 31 March 2005 295 Share of total recognised income and expenditure for the year 115 Dividends paid 59 Disposals 9 Balance as at 31 March 2006 342 35 Cash flows from operating activities Reconciliation of net profit to net cash inflow from operating activities: 2005 06 2004 05 Note m m Continuing operations Profit for the year from continuing operations 85 192 Adjustments for: Tax expense credit 27 25 Depreciation 17 228 170 Amortisation 16 46 20 Impairment 14 237 8 Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 8 83 3 Other income 7 5 Interest and similar income 10 80 102 Interest and similar charges 10 69 68 Decrease increase in provisions Operating activities 135 95 Non-operating activities 34 Share-based payments 14 10 Defined benefit pension expense 6 19 Defined benefit pension contributions includes pension top-up of 98 million 2005 100 million 115 127 Share of results after tax of associates 54 48 Operating cash flows before working capital changes 204 278 Changes in working capital excluding effects of acquisitions and disposal of subsidiaries Increase in inventories 4 5 Decrease in trade and other receivables 8 116 Decrease in payables 108 120 Cash generated from continuing operations 100 279 Discontinued operations Profit for the year from discontinued operations 90 162 Adjustment for Tax expense 12 2 Depreciation 12 1 Profit on disposal of investments 16 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 Interest and similar charges 12 1 Profit on sale of operations 20 130 Decrease in provisions 64 Changes in working capital 1 8 Cash generated from discontinued operations 3 28 Cash generated from operations 103 307 2005 06 Annual report 123 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 36 Commitments Capital commitments at the end of the financial year, for which no provision has been made, are as follows: 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 m m Property, plant and equipment 77 71 Other 13 Total capital commitments 77 84 In addition to the capital commitments above, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Groups business.
The most significant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs.
In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
Of the above, 33 million 2005 28 million relates to the Groups share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures and associates.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2006 is disclosed in note 6.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under operating leases are: 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 m m No later than one year 97 89 Later than one year but not later than five years 206 203 Later than five years 128 150 Total minimum operating lease payments 431 442 37 Guarantees Guarantees at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows: 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 m m Trading guarantees 184 178 Other guarantees 61 65 Total guarantees 245 243 Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds or contracts issued in the normal course of business guaranteeing the Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.
The guarantees also enable the customer to obtain repayment of any advance payment in the event of the relevant subsidiary failing to carry out its contractual obligations in full.
Some of these guarantees are uncapped.
Other guarantees include guarantees in respect of financial obligations of subsidiary undertakings principally in respect of leases, borrowings and letters of credit.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials.
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Pender, the Groups Isle of Man insurance subsidiary, has written policies in favour of the Group and third parties.
Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and disputes with reinsurers.
Legal proceedings continue against Pender and the Company in respect of certain insurance claims as set out in note 40.
Other matters In addition the Company has, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years.
Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given.
In relation to the sale of CWC ConsumerCo in May 2000, the Company gave a number of standard warranties and indemnities.
There is no time limit or cap that applies generally, the Company also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
124 2005 06 Annual report 38 Business combinations The acquisitions made during the year are summarised below: 2005 06 2004 05 Monaco Bulldog Energis Atlas Total Telecom SA XM Mobile Total Note m m m m m m Consideration paid 705 2 707 114 25 139 Goodwill arising on acquisitions 16 384 384 36 20 56 Fair value of net assets acquired 321 2 323 78 5 83 Cash outflows on acquisitions 705 2 707 112 23 135 Less: cash acquired in subsidiaries 97 97 57 1 58 Cash outflow on acquisitions 608 2 610 55 22 77 Details of these are presented below: a 2005 06 Acquisition of Energis On 11 November 2005, Cable & Wireless purchased the entire share capital of Chelys Limited, the parent company of the Energis Group Energis, for a total consideration of 705 million.
The consideration was made up of 675 million debt repayment, 15 million to acquire the share capital of Chelys Limited and 15 million of direct costs incurred to acquire Energis.
As part of the Energis acquisition, Cable & Wireless agreed to pay contingent consideration of between nil and a maximum of 80 million.
The amount of contingent consideration is tied to the Companys share price and may be satisfied, at the Companys option, in either cash or shares of the Company.
Payments will be based on a ratio of 1.25 million for every one penny by which the maximum three month volume weighted average Cable & Wireless share price in the third year following completion exceeds the reference price of 135 pence.
Any payments would begin in March 2008, would be payable once a month until December 2008 and will be based upon Cable & Wireless volume weighted average share price for the three months prior to any relevant payment date.
The terms and conditions of the contingent consideration include anti-dilution mechanisms similar to those in the 4% convertible bond issued by Cable & Wireless due 2010.
In addition, in the event of a change of control of Cable & Wireless, or in the event of its shares ceasing to be admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange's market for listed securities, a sum calculated in accordance with the terms of the contingent consideration will be payable in cash within ten business days.
Energis contributed 266 million to revenues and 35 million to EBITDA from the date of acquisition.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2005 the contribution to Group revenue would have been 709 million and the contribution to EBITDA would have been 93 million.
Net assets and acquired goodwill are: Energis acquisition Note m Purchase consideration: Cash paid 690 Contingent consideration Direct costs related to acquisitions 15 Fair value of assets acquired 321 Goodwill 16 384 The Directors have assessed the fair values of the assets and liabilities as follows: Alignment of Book value accounting policy Revaluations Fair value m m m m Software 19 19 Customer contracts and relationships 130 130 Property, plant and equipment 402 28 136 238 Trade and other receivables 124 6 130 Cash and cash equivalents 97 97 Trade and other payables 250 9 259 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 13 21 34 Total 360 24 15 321 2005 06 Annual report 125 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 m Purchase cost settled in cash 705 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired subsidiary 97 Cash outflow on acquisition 608 The acquiree's carrying amounts were recorded under UK GAAP.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Energis includes expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing UK corporate business, workforce valuations and other intangible assets that do not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible assets.
Cash and cash equivalents is stated net of amounts paid in respect of Energis management incentive plan.
b Reassessment of Monaco acquisition Cable & Wireless purchased the Monaco Telecom business in the financial year 2004 05, when the transaction was recorded at provisional values.
A reassessment of the fair values at the date of acquisition was performed during the current financial year, within one year of the acquisition date.
The adjustment to the goodwill balance is as follows: m Goodwill on acquisition 36 Exchange rate adjustment 3 Carrying value of goodwill at 31 March 2005 39 Reassessment of fair value adjustments 8 Exchange rate adjustment 2 Carrying value of goodwill at 31 March 2006 29 c 2004 05 Acquisition of Monaco Telecom SA On 18 June 2004 Cable & Wireless purchased a 55% beneficial stake in Monaco Telecom for a total consideration of 162 million 108 million.
In its last audited financial year to 31 December 2003, prepared under Monegasque GAAP, Monaco Telecom made a profit after tax and minority interests of 12 million.
From that date to the date of acquisition Monaco Telecom made a profit after tax and minority interests of 7 million.
Monaco Telecom contributed 13 million to the Groups net operating cash flows, 1 million outflow for return on investment and servicing of finance, 5 million outflow for capital expenditure and 1 million outflow for repayment of debts, 10 million inflow of liquid resources and a decrease in cash of 2 million.
Monaco Telecom contributed 100 million to revenues and 17 million to profit before tax from the date of acquisition.
Disclosure of the contribution Monaco Telecom would have made to Group revenue and net profit had it been also acquired on 1 April 2004 is impracticable: Monaco Telecom prepares its local accounts in Monegasque GAAP and does not have revenue and net profit numbers in an IFRS comparable format for the period prior to acquisition.
Net assets acquired and goodwill are: Monaco Telecom SA acquisition Note m Purchase consideration: Cash paid 108 Deferred consideration 2 Direct costs related to acquisitions 4 Fair value of assets acquired 78 Goodwill 16 36 126 2005 06 Annual report The assets and liabilities arising from acquisition were: Acquirees carrying amount Fair value m m Cash and cash equivalents 57 57 Property, plant and equipment 25 28 Concession agreements 65 International managed service contracts 10 Trade investments 22 Trade and other receivables 80 82 Inventories 11 Trade and other payables 78 80 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 36 23 Net assets 51 142 Minority interests 64 Net assets acquired 78 Purchase cost 114 Less deferred consideration 2 Purchase settled in cash 112 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired subsidiary 57 Cash outflow on acquisition 55 Acquirees carrying amounts were recorded under Monegasque GAAP.
No reconciliation to IFRS is available.
Goodwill arising on the Monaco acquisition includes transaction costs and other intangible assets that do not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible assets.
d Other acquisitions Bulldog and XM Mobile were acquired on 28 May 2004 and 9 September 2004, respectively.
Cable & Wireless paid 19.5 million in respect of the acquisition of 100% of Bulldog and 1.5 million in respect of the acquisition of 100% of XM Mobile BV.
A further 2 million of purchase consideration has been accrued in respect of the XM Mobile acquisition.
This is contingent on certain operational and financial conditions being met in the period to 31 December 2007.
Bulldog and XM Mobile contributed revenues of 11 million and net loss of 27 million from the date of acquisition.
If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 April 2004 the contribution to Group revenue would have been 12 million and the contribution to net profit would have been a loss of 28 million.
Net assets acquired and goodwill are: Other acquisitions Note m Purchase consideration: Cash paid 21 Accrued purchase consideration 2 Direct costs related to acquisitions 2 Fair value of assets acquired 5 Goodwill 16 20 2005 06 Annual report 127 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 The assets and liabilities arising from acquisition were: Acquirees carrying amount Fair value m m Cash and cash equivalents 11 Property, plant and equipment 44 Trade and other receivables 11 Trade and other payments 6 6 Intangible assets brand 1 Intangible assets intellectual property 4 Net assets acquired 5 Purchase cost 25 Less deferred consideration 2 Purchase settled in cash 23 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired subsidiaries 1 Cash outflow on acquisition 22 Goodwill of 20 million arising on the Bulldog acquisition includes transaction costs and other intangible assets that do not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38.
39 Related party transactions Transactions with joint ventures and associates All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless products and services, network and access charges.
There were no material trade transactions with joint ventures and associated companies during the year.
The Group made a payment of 5 million to Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Limited, an associate, towards the restoration cost incurred as a result of the Tsunami.
The Group received 20 million 2005 14 million dividends from associates and 20 million 2005 17 million from joint ventures for the year ended 31 March 2006 as set out in note 18.
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates in respect of trading balances are set out in note 20.
Cable & Wireless has an interest free loan of 1 million 2005 1 million with Quantum Communications Limited, an associate of the Group, as set out in note 18.
Transactions with key management personnel There were no material transactions with key management personnel, including loans advanced to Directors or other key managers, except for those relating to remuneration, disclosed in notes 7 and 33, and shareholdings.
Transactions with other related parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Group.
There were no material transactions with Directors, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
128 2005 06 Annual report 40 Legal proceedings Arbitration between AT&T Corp, Alascom Inc, Cable and Wireless plc and Japan Telecom On 28 January 2005, AT&T Corp and Alascom, Inc.
Claimants filed a Request for Arbitration before the ICC against the Company and Japan Telecom Respondents relating to the Respondents alleged duties as Founding Signatories and Maintenance Authorities under the Construction and Maintenance Agreement for the North Pacific Cable System NPC.
The Claimants allege breach of contract and breaches of fiduciary duty against the Respondents in connection with alleged overcharging of operations and maintenance fees by PT Cable Inc. a now bankrupt former Founding Signatory of NPC.
The complaint is for US$23,867,909 in damages plus interest US$16 million through to 31 December 2005 and punitive damages.
The Companys US Counsel has advised that, in their opinion, all of the Claimants claims are weak.
A hearing date is yet to be set.
Pender Insurance Limited Australia-Japan Cable Limited AJC, a policyholder of Pender has brought proceedings in London against Pender and Cable & Wireless.
AJC claims that it is entitled to insurance cover for loss of revenue following damage caused to an undersea cable by a cargo vessel.
It also claims that, if it does not have such cover, Pender or the Group is liable for its losses because of representations made to AJC that it was entitled to such insurance cover.
The claim is for US$130 million 75 million.
Pender and the Group have been advised by legal counsel that the claim is unmeritorious and accordingly are defending it vigorously.
The trial is set for 3 July 2006 and is estimated to last four weeks.
Certain of Penders re-insurers of the AJC risk have instituted proceedings seeking a declaration that they are entitled to avoid their obligations.
Pender is also vigorously defending these proceedings.
In February 2006 a settlement was reached of the suit commenced by Cable and Wireless plc and Pender on 30 March 2004 against five companies and six individuals five of whom were former Cable & Wireless employees, the terms of which are confidential.
As part of that settlement Pender has also resolved all outstanding issues with QBE International Insurance Limited and others.
Claim against the Minister of Finance and Economy, Panama On 16 December 2002, a complaint was filed by two Panamanian lawyers exercising a public action at the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Panama questioning the validity of the Operating Agreement executed between Cable and Wireless CALA Management Services Limited Cable & Wireless CALA and INTEL, SA now Cable & Wireless Panama, SA C&W Panama as part of the privatisation agreements, which they claim violated the law governing, and rules of, Public Bid No.
06 96 won by Cable and Wireless plc for the purchase of 49% of the shares of C&W Panama.
Complaints filed at the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice must be filed against the public officer who enacted the relevant regulation or act.
This complaint was filed against the Minister of Finance and Economy in Panama specifically alleging that the Operating Agreement was null and void ab initio, on the grounds that it had not been published in the Official Gazette in Panama.
The Operating Agreement enables C&W Panama to use the technical and management know-how of Cable & Wireless CALA to fulfil more effectively its obligations under the concession granted to it by the Government of Panama to install, operate and exploit telecommunication services in Panama.
C&W Panama, due to its close interest in the outcome of the complaint, requested recognition by the Court and permission to participate in the proceedings.
On 21 March 2003, the Court permitted the claim to proceed.
C&W Panama filed an appeal against the admission of the claim to proceed, however the Court confirmed its decision to permit the claim to proceed on 17 March 2004.
During the bid process, and as required by the Bid rules of Public Bid No.
06 96, the Administrations Attorney General provided an opinion to the Minister of Economy and Finance stating that the Share Purchase Agreement and the Operating Agreement were legal and valid.
Then, at the request of the Court, and within the complaint process, the Administrations Attorney General opined that the Concession Contract, the Share Purchase Agreement, and the Operating Agreement complied with all the requirements established by the law and by the rules of Public Bid No.
The contract was also countersigned by the Comptroller General of the Republic acting with due authorisation.
On 1 April 2005, C&W Panama tendered its response to the claim and submitted evidence for consideration by the Court.
The plaintiff has requested, on two occasions, that the effect of the Operating Agreement be suspended temporarily, an issue which the Court, in both instances rejected.
On 7 September 2005, the submission of evidence before the Court was completed and both parties filed their closing arguments.
The Courts ruling is still pending to be issued.
Panamanian counsel considers this claim to be without merit and none of Cable and Wireless plc, C&W Panama or Cable & Wireless CALA is party to the complaint.
If the complaint were to be successful, the concession under which C&W Panama operates would not be affected.
However, the Operating Agreement could be declared null and void and then the complainants could file a complaint against Cable & Wireless CALA requiring the return of all management fees collected under the agreement since its execution on 20 May 1997.
This would amount to approximately 60 million.
2005 06 Annual report 129 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 Telecarrier Inc. vs. C&W Panama On 5 May 2004, Telecarrier Inc. Telecarrier, a new telecommunications operator, lodged a claim in the Sixth Circuit Civil Court of Panama alleging non-compliance by C&W Panama with the Interconnection Agreement between the parties in connection with the invoicing and collection process.
Telecarrier requested the Court to order the continued provision of a pre-determined billing and charging process and to prevent C&W Panama from using an alternative process.
They also claimed US$18 million 10 million damages and costs.
On 9 September 2004, C&W Panama submitted a defence to the claim and on 30 December 2004, the parties presented a petition for suspension of the process for a period of 45 days to allow them to negotiate with each other.
In a resolution dated 30 December 2004, the Court admitted the petition and negotiations with the plaintiff were initiated.
Negotiations between C&W Panama and Telecarrier concluded and no agreement was reached.
The Court re-opened proceedings on 13 May 2005.
In a separate action, on 25 August 2004, C&W Panama lodged a claim against Telecarrier in the Seventeenth Circuit Civil Court of Panama claiming unjustified enrichment by Telecarrier through the use of C&W Panamas fixed telephone network to allow the rerouting of traffic for internet public use.
C&W Panama is claiming US$14 million 8 million.
The claim was admitted by the Court on 2 September 2004.
On 23 December 2004, the parties agreed to suspend the process for a period of 30 days to allow for a period of negotiation a move endorsed by the Court on 23 December 2004.
The proceedings are pending the submission of evidence before the Court.
On 25 August 2005, Telecarrier petitioned the Court to join the unjust enrichment claim brought by C&W Panama with its non-compliance claim against C&W Panama discussed above.
The Court ruled in favour of the two cases being joined and a ruling on what evidence is admissible is still pending.
Arbitration between Mrs. Beatriz Anguizola fide Arosemena, on behalf of The Nation and C&W Panama On 21 December 2004 Mrs. Beatriz Anguizola fide Arosemena, on behalf of the Panamanian Government, filed a request for arbitration against C&W Panama demanding that it return to The Nation monies collected for telephone services rendered to the National Assembly, the Judicial Branch and the Attorney Generals Office, when, it is alleged these should have been provided for free under a state franchise.
The amount claimed is approximately US$11.6 million 7 million.
The arbitration process is currently suspended following a writ of unconstitutionality filed by C&W Panama on 2 February 2005 to the Supreme Court for a ruling of unconstitutionality against the resolution issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance which invested Mrs. Beatriz Anguizola with the authority to file suit against C&W Panama on behalf of the Nation.
C&W Panama have been advised that if the writ of unconstitutionality is rejected by the Supreme Court, then the arbitration process would resume.
Universal Telecom & Energy vs. C&W Panama Universal Telecom & Energy Universal lodged a claim against C&W Panama on 10 February 2005 in the Thirteenth Circuit Civil Court alleging C&W Panama breached a contract between them for Universal to make an inventory of C&W Panamas ducts.
Universal alleges that C&W Panama did not deliver the materials necessary to complete the work and that therefore the work had to be stopped.
The amount claimed is approx US$12.6 million 7 million, of which US$10 million 6 million is claimed as moral damages, although the contract is worth approx US$800,000 460,000.
On 7 April 2005 C&W Panama answered the complaint and submitted a separate petition requesting the court to declare the action res judicata cosa juzgada, on the basis that the parties had previously entered into an extrajudicial transaction out of court settlement on 9 May 2003 which settled the issues covered in the subsequent lawsuit filed by Universal.
C&W Panama is waiting for a decree from the Court in response to this petition, and for the Court to make a pronouncement as to the admission of evidence, counter-evidence and objections to the same.
TechLink Services Corporation vs. C&W Panama TechLink Services Corporation TechLink brought a petition against C&W Panama that one contract between the parties be terminated and that another be declared null and void.
TechLink also claimed damages of approx US$10.9 million 6 million in respect of a third contract and US$1.5 million 800,000 for moral damages.
Judgment was found in favour of C&W Panama on 15 July 2005 by the First Circuit Civil Court.
TechLink has appealed this judgment and C&W Panama is vigorously defending the appeal.
The parties are waiting for the appeal decision of the First Superior Tribunal.
Galaxy Communications Corp. vs. C&W Panama On 2 February 2006 Galaxy Communications Corp. GCC filed a claim against C&W Panama alleging that C&W Panama has committed monopolistic practices and has abused its dominant market position by denying GCC interconnection to its network.
GCC is seeking punitive damages of approx US$135 million 78 million.
C&W Panama filed its response on 17 April 2006.
C&W Panama believe the case to be without merit and will be strongly defending the case.
At this stage GCC have not filed any evidence to support their allegations.
130 2005 06 Annual report Per Second Billing case On 28 July 2005, the Regulator of Public Services issued a Resolution ordering C&W Panama to retroactively refund to customers of basic local, national and international telecommunications services an initial minimum call charge which had been levied between February 2003 and May 2005.
C&W Panama has filed a motion for reconsideration with the Regulator on the basis that C&W Panama does not have an obligation to refund these amounts to its customers and the Regulator has no jurisdiction to make decisions imposing compensation payments.
In addition, C&W Panama filed a Warning of Illegality with the Supreme Court of Panama, arguing that the rule invoked by the Regulator to impose this obligation on Cable & Wireless Panama should be declared illegal.
The Regulator cannot decide on the motion for reconsideration presented by C&W Panama until after the Supreme Court reaches a decision on the Warning of Illegality.
Other litigation From time to time, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to legal or regulatory claims, proceedings, investigations or reviews.
Other than the above, there are no pending claims, proceedings, investigations or reviews against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, which the Company believes will, if determined adversely to the Group, have a material adverse effect on the Groups liquidity or operations.
41 Licences and concessions In a number of countries the Group hold licences or concessions to operate.
These licences take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary significantly.
The Group assumes that it will renew licences as they expire as it has done in the past.
Were renewal not to occur, in most cases the business or its assets would be transferred to the new operator or government at market value or net book value.
In a small number of locations, transfer is at a value below carrying value: in these places the Group monitors closely the likelihood of licence renewal in order to ensure that should a licence not be renewed, the business assets have been written down to their recoverable value at the point of transfer.
There were no significant changes to the terms of the Groups licenses in the year.
42 First time adoption of IFRS Cable & Wireless reported under UK GAAP in its published financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005.
The Group is required by EU regulation to prepare consolidated financial statements under IFRS for periods commencing after 1 January 2005.
As such, IFRS applies for the first time in Cable & Wireless consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2006.
As a SEC registrant the Group would normally be required to present two years comparative information.
However, the terms of an accommodation granted by the SEC permit first time adopters of IFRS to present only one years IFRS comparatives in the year of adoption.
Consequently, the Groups date of transition to IFRS is 1 April 2004.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Directors have elected not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 prior to 31 March 2005.
Accordingly, the comparative information in the Financial Statements reflects the Group continuing to account for and disclose financial instruments in accordance with FRS 4 Capital instruments and FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures.
The Group has also elected not to apply IFRS 4 Insurance contracts prior to 31 March 2005.
As permitted by IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, the group has applied the standard to assets held for sale and discontinued operations occurring from its date of transition to IFRS as the necessary valuation information was available to do so.
2005 06 Annual report 131 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 Property, plant and equipment that has been fully written down has been included in cost at its nil net book value.
The cost and accumulated depreciation of all other property, plant and equipment has been recognised on transition.
Profit and loss reconciliation As required by IFRS 1, the Group has prepared reconciliations between the profit recorded under UK GAAP and IFRS for the year ended 31 March 2005, being the last year reported under UK GAAP.
Income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005 UK GAAP IFRS year ended IFRS year ended 31 March 2005 adjustment 31 March 2005 m m m Continuing operations Revenue 3,002 54 2,948 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 2,676 9 2,667 Depreciation 199 21 178 Amortisation 7 13 20 Group operating profit loss 120 37 83 Share of post-tax profit of associates and joint ventures 33 15 48 Total operating profit loss 153 22 131 Net finance costs and other income 36 36 Profit before income tax 189 22 167 Income tax expense credit 22 3 25 Profit loss for the year from continuing operations 211 19 192 Discontinued operations Profit for the year from discontinued operations 166 4 162 Profit for the year 377 23 354 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 301 7 294 Minority interest 76 16 60 377 23 354 An analysis of the IFRS adjustments is given below: Reconciliation of profit between UK GAAP and IFRS Note Year ended 31 March 2005 m As reported under UK GAAP 377 Deconsolidation of Maldives business a 17 Employee benefits b 2 Intangible assets c 1 Share-based payments d 8 Income taxes e 2 Recycling of foreign exchange losses on disposal f 3 As restated under IFRS 354 Continuing operations 192 Discontinued operations 162 354 Equity reconciliation The Group has prepared reconciliations between the shareholders equity recorded under UK GAAP and IFRS as at 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, and 31 March 2005, the date of the last UK GAAP accounts.
132 2005 06 Annual report Balance sheet in IFRS format: 31 March 2005 Date of transition UK GAAP IFRS IFRS UK GAAP IFRS IFRS 31 March 2005 adjustment 31 March 2005 1 April 2004 adjustment 1 April 2004 m m m m m m Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1,379 111 1,268 1,214 71 1,143 Intangible assets 91 115 206 9 53 44 Investments in associates and joint ventures 208 37 245 208 31 239 Trade investments 33 33 58 2 60 Taxation recoverable 14 14 30 15 15 Deferred tax asset 25 4 29 28 7 35 Retirement benefit asset 202 176 26 103 76 27 Trade and other receivables 43 43 27 1 28 1,995 145 1,850 1,659 68 1,591 Current assets Inventories 35 9 26 38 9 29 Taxation recoverable 7 2 5 Trade investments 82 2 80 49 49 Trade and other receivables 816 11 805 868 4 864 Cash and cash equivalents 2,072 51 2,021 2,305 35 2,270 3,005 73 2,932 3,267 50 3,217 Assets held for sale 18 18 3,005 55 2,950 3,267 50 3,217 Total assets 5,000 200 4,800 4,926 118 4,808 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 1,353 60 1,293 1,290 1 1,289 Current tax liabilities 158 158 271 1 270 Loans and obligations under finance leases 23 23 44 44 Dividend payable 73 73 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 279 279 1,813 60 1,753 1,678 75 1,603 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 4 4 1,813 56 1,757 1,678 75 1,603 Net current assets 1,192 1 1,193 1,589 25 1,614 Non-current liabilities Loans and obligations under finance leases 801 801 875 1 874 Trade and other payables 1 1 Deferred tax liabilities 43 6 49 25 4 29 Provisions for liabilities and charges 184 4 188 368 368 Retirement benefit obligations 22 205 227 28 393 421 1,050 215 1,265 1,296 397 1,693 Net assets 2,137 359 1,778 1,952 440 1,512 EQUITY Capital and reserves attributable to the Companys equity shareholders Share capital 599 599 596 596 Share premium 8 8 2 2 Reserves 1,211 335 876 1,105 393 712 1,818 335 1,483 1,703 393 1,310 Minority interest 319 24 295 249 47 202 Total Equity 2,137 359 1,778 1,952 440 1,512 An analysis of the adjustments is given below: 2005 06 Annual report 133 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 Reconciliation of shareholders equity between UK GAAP and IFRS 31 March 1 April 2005 2004 Note m m As reported under UK GAAP 1,818 1,703 Employee benefits b 395 480 Intangible assets c 10 9 Dividends payable g 60 73 Income taxes e 8 5 Other 2 10 As restated under IFRS 1,483 1,310 a Deconsolidation of Dhiraagu Under UK GAAP, the Group accounts for its 45% shareholding in Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Limited Dhiraagu, the Groups Maldivian business, as a subsidiary.
The revenue, operating profit and financing costs of Dhiraagu were consolidated in full in the income statement with a corresponding allocation to minority interest.
IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements defines a subsidiary as an entity that is controlled by another entity.
The IFRS basis of determining control differs from that of UK GAAP: consequently, under IFRS, the Group considers this investment to be a joint venture.
Under UK GAAP, the assets and liabilities of Dhiraagu were fully consolidated in the balance sheet with a minority interest calculated.
The IFRS consolidated balance sheets at 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 reflect only the Groups interest in Dhiraagu.
b Employee benefits The Group has elected, in accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits, to adopt a policy of accounting for defined benefit employee retirement schemes through full recognition of the schemes surpluses or deficit on the balance sheet at each year end.
Actuarial gains and losses are included in the statement of recognised income and expenditure SORIE.
This is similar to the approach required by the UK standard FRS 17 Retirement benefits for which the Group has previously provided transitional disclosure information.
In addition, the prepayment under SSAP 24 Accounting for pension costs was also reversed, further reducing net assets.
The deferred tax impact of employee benefits is disclosed within the tax figure.
Under UK GAAP, in line with common practice, the Group did not account for holiday pay accruals unless legally obliged to make cash settlement.
IAS 19 explicitly requires appropriate provision to be made for the cost of holiday entitlements not taken at the balance sheet date.
c Intangible assets IFRS allows companies to elect not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to business combinations which occurred before the date of transition to IFRS.
The Group has elected to take advantage of this exemption.
Negative goodwill has been credited to reserves on transition at 1 April 2004 as IFRS 3 does not allow negative goodwill to be carried on the balance sheet.
The recognition criteria for intangible assets other than goodwill differ between UK GAAP and IFRS.
In general, a greater number of intangible assets are recognised under IFRS 3.
During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group acquired three businesses: Monaco Telecom, Bulldog and XM Mobile.
Under IFRS 3 a number of intangible assets were identified with a consequent reduction in the amount of goodwill recognised.
Under UK GAAP, goodwill was amortised over its expected useful life, and is tested for impairment in specific circumstances.
IFRS 3 requires that goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed on an annual basis for impairment.
d Share-based payments Under UK GAAP share based awards were accounted for on an intrinsic basis.
In addition, no charges apply to the Groups SAYE schemes.
Under IFRS 2, an expense is recognised in the income statement for grants of equity instruments in relation to employee options and performance share schemes including SAYE schemes.
The expense recognised is based on the fair value of the shares or options at the date of grant and is recognised over the vesting period of the scheme.
IFRS 1 permits a company to apply IFRS 2 only to grants of equity settled share-based awards granted after 7 November 2002 that have not vested by the later of the date of transition to IFRS and 1 January 2005.
The Group has taken advantage of this exemption.
The Group has used the Monte Carlo pricing model and Black-Scholes Merton formula, as appropriate, for the purposes of computing fair values under IFRS 2.
134 2005 06 Annual report e Income taxes Under UK GAAP deferred tax was provided on timing differences.
IAS 12 Income Tax requires deferred tax to be provided on temporary differences rather than just timing differences, with the exception of: unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of the remittances and it is probable that the associated temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Under IFRS, the Groups share of the tax charge or its associates is not included in the tax charge, but instead deducted from its share of pre-tax profits.
f Recycling of foreign exchange losses on disposal of a subsidiary IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates requires cumulative translation differences arising from translation of foreign operations to be recorded in equity and then recycled as a gain or loss on disposal when the operation is sold.
IFRS 1 permits entities an exemption from IAS 21: cumulative translation differences up to the date of transition are not recycled.
However, from this date onwards, translation differences are recorded in accordance with IAS 21.
The Group has taken advantage of this exemption and, as such, the cumulative translation differences at the date of transition have been set to zero.
Translation differences from 1 April 2004 in respect of the Groups Japanese operations, which were disposed of during the current year, have been included in the calculation of profit on disposal.
There is no effect on shareholders equity.
g Dividends payable Under UK GAAP, dividends relating to the current year but declared after the balance sheet date were recognised as a liability at the year end.
Under IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, such dividends are not permitted to be recognised as a liability at that balance sheet date as the liability does not represent a present obligation as defined by IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
As a result, the dividends declared after the balance sheet date and accrued in the balance sheet as at 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 are reversed.
2005 06 Annual report 135 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 43 Impact of the adoption of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 adoption The Group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 April 2005 as permitted by IFRS 1.
The impact of the adoption of the new standard on the net assets as at 31 March 2005 is presented below: IFRS Effect of IFRS 31 March IAS 32 39 1 April 2005 adoption 2005 Note m m m Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1,268 1,268 Intangible assets 206 206 Investments in associates and joint ventures 245 245 Trade investments i 33 33 Available for sale financial assets i 9090 Deferred tax asset 29 29 Retirement benefit asset 26 26 Trade and other receivables 43 6 49 1,850 63 1,913 Current assets Inventories 26 26 Trade investments ii 80 80 Available for sale financial assets ii 78 78 Trade and other receivables 805 805 Cash and cash equivalents 2,021 2,021 2,932 2 2,930 Assets held for sale 18 18 2,950 2 2,948 Total assets 4,800 61 4,861 Current liabilities Trade and other payables ii 1,293 2 1,291 Current tax liabilities 158 158 Loans and obligations under finance leases 23 23 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 279 279 1,753 2 1,751 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 44 1,757 2 1,755 Net current assets 1,193 1,193 Non-current liabilities Loans and obligations under finance leases iii, iv 801 75 726 Derivative financial instruments iii, iv 62 62 Deferred tax liabilities 49 49 Provisions for liabilities and charges 188 188 Retirement benefit obligations 227 227 1,265 13 1,252 Net assets 1,778 76 1,854 i Certain non-current listed investments, with a carrying value of 27 million and classified as trade investments under UK GAAP, have been reclassified as available for sale financial instruments with a fair value of 90 million.
The Groups share of the fair value gain 32 million has been recognised in equity and the minoritys share in minority interest.
The remaining items classified as trade investments under UK GAAP have been classified as trade and other receivables.
Items classified as available for sale are revalued at each balance sheet date with changes in value recognised in reserves.
The net amount held in reserves is taken to the income statement on disposal of the asset.
ii Certain current investments, with a carrying value of 78 million and classified as current asset investments under UK GAAP, have been reclassified as current available for sale financial instruments with a fair value of 78 million.
136 2005 06 Annual report iii The Group has a Euro denominated loan the Loan and a related euro-sterling cross currency swap the Swap with terms matching those of the Loan.
The Loan has been translated at the closing rate at 31 March 2005 giving rise to a reduction in the balance of 15 million.
iv The terms and conditions of the Groups Convertible debt instrument result in a recognition and measurement basis that is different from the basis applied under UK GAAP.
The debt agreement provides for the conversion of the debt into Ordinary Shares of Cable and Wireless plc at a predetermined fixed rate.
The conversion is at the option of the bondholders and exercisable at any time prior to 9 July 2010.
The bond also has a takeover protection clause, which adjusts the share conversion factor, over a period of time, until settlement or conversion of the bond.
The Group has the option to settle the entire bond in cash although this option was removed in April 2005.
The takeover protection terms and the cash settlement option are considered to be derivative features that are required to be accounted for separately from the debt element of the bond.
The liability component and the derivative features are separated and measured in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The conversion option and takeover protection feature were marked to market at 1 April 2005 and recognised on balance sheet giving rise to a derivative liability of 47 million.
The derivative elements are carried on a fair value basis with changes in value being taken to the income statement.
Subsequent to 1 April 2005 the cash settlement option in respect of the conversion option was removed and the conversion option reclassified as a component of equity.
No deferred tax impact has been booked as a consequence of the above adjustments as there are unrecognised tax losses available to offset any additional liability.
Impact of IFRS 4 adoption The adjustments relating to the implementation of IFRS 4 are restricted solely to the reclassification of elements of certain current receivables, payables and provisions to more properly reflect their insurance based nature.
These reclassifications do not affect net assets and, where material, will be reflected in the notes to the financial statements.
44 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Ownership Issued Share Local Capital Via Class of Country of Area of currency million Direct subsidiaries shares incorporation operation Cable & Wireless UK 3,033 100% Ordinary England UK Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd J$ 16,817 82% Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica 1 Cable & Wireless Panama, SA Balboa 316 49% Ordinary Panama Panama 2 Companhia fide Telecomunicacoes fide Macau, SARL Pataca 150 51% Ordinary Macau Macau and China Cable & Wireless Barbados Ltd B$ 72 81% Ordinary Barbados Barbados Cable and Wireless West Indies Ltd 5 100% Ordinary England Caribbean 3 4 Monaco Telecom SAM Euro 2 49% Ordinary Monaco Monaco Bulldog Communications Ltd 2 100% Ordinary England UK Chelys Limited Energis 14 100% Ordinary England UK Joint ventures 3 Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd T$ 283 49% Ordinary Trinidad Trinidad and Tobago and Tobago 2 Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd Rufiya 190 45% Ordinary Maldives Maldives Associates 2 Bahrain Telecommunications Company BSC Dinar 100 20% Ordinary Bahrain Bahrain 1 The Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders agreement.
2 This company has a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders agreement.
3 This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG and its international member firms.
4 The Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco Telecom SAM.
2005 06 Annual report 137 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 On 18 June 2004 Cable & Wireless acquired 55% of Monaco Telecom, a Monaco based telecommunication service provider, from Vivendi Universal.
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to an unrelated third party.
Cable & Wireless contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement.
In addition, the 6% interest is subject to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management control of Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless.
Cable & Wireless has also entered into a shareholders agreement with the Principality of Monaco, which contains, among other provisions, a prohibition on either Cable & Wireless or the Principality subject to certain limited exceptions selling their shares in Monaco Telecom for five years, mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality.
The Principality has a put option entitling it to put its 45% shareholding in Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless at certain times after 1 January 2008.
The exercise price under the put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco Telecom.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affects the figures shown in the financial statements.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associates and trade investments will be attached to the Companys Annual Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
45 Financial risk management Treasury policy The Groups treasury operations are managed on the basis of policies and authorities approved by Cable and Wireless plcs Board of Directors.
Day-to-day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Finance Director and the Group Treasurer, within specified financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiary operating companies undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities.
Material subsidiary positions are monitored by the Group treasury function.
Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board.
All subsidiaries are required to report details of their cash, debt and hedging positions to Group treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of the treasury function include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk.
The majority of the Groups funding and cash resources are managed centrally.
Wherever possible individual companies in the Group are funded in, and operate in, their functional currency.
Cable & Wireless only uses derivatives and financial instruments including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and options in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures in accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by the Treasury Management Committee comprising of the Finance Director, Group Treasurer and other senior financial managers as required and subject to policies approved by the Board.
Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and all derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
Exchange rate risk Cable & Wireless trades in many countries and much of its revenue is generated in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to foreign currency payments, dividend income from foreign subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of foreign investments.
Where appropriate the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short term.
Where it is deemed appropriate the Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group.
In addition, overseas subsidiaries are generally financed in their domestic currency to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
As at 31 March 2006, the Group had in place foreign exchange contracts amounting to 31 million, being primarily the sale of US$54 million against sterling.
138 2005 06 Annual report The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange ruling during the year.
Overseas earnings are predominately in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
In broad terms, based on the 2005 06 mix of profits, the impact of a unilateral 1% weakening of sterling would have been to increase the operating profit before exceptional items by approximately 2 million.
The Group does not undertake profit translation hedging activities.
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of overseas investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value of foreign investments.
Currently there are no external foreign currency liabilities matched against the carrying value of foreign investments.
The Group currently does not undertake any hedges of long-term currency trading flows.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements of interest rates on its debt and surplus cash balances.
The treasury function may seek to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate.
There were no derivatives in place as at 31 March 2006.
A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Groups fixed rate debt.
However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity, hence the exposure to fair value loss has not been modelled.
Credit risk Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
The counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Groups financial instruments are entities rated A1 short-term and or AAlong-term by Standard and Poors or equivalent by Moodys and or Fitch.
The credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on an ongoing basis.
The types of instrument used for investment of funds are prescribed in Group treasury policies approved by the Board with limits on the exposure to any one counterparty.
Liquidity risk At 31 March 2006, Cable & Wireless had cash, current asset investment and short-term deposits of 1,166 million.
This amount included 50 million of cash pledged against liabilities, some contingent.
The surplus cash is a significant component of the Groups overall liquidity and capital resources.
Approximately 73% of the Groups cash is held centrally and is predominantly invested in short-term bank deposits and AAA-rated money market funds.
During 2004 05 the Group purchased 80 million of Credit Linked Notes issued by AA-rated banks and referenced to the Companys 200 million bond, which matures in 2012.
This transaction has a similar economic effect to repurchasing the bonds for the period of the investment.
During 2005 06, 40 million of these Credit Linked Notes were sold at par.
The Company considers that the remaining 39 million, at fair value, of Credit Linked Notes could be realised for cash in the short term and hence are liquid assets.
Further information on these transactions is given in note 19.
Certain foreign subsidiaries operate in jurisdictions, which restrict the ability to repatriate cash to the parent company.
60 million of cash held in restricted jurisdictions is not included in gross cash at 31 March 2006.
2005 06 Annual report 139 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2006 46 Financial instruments comparative disclosures The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in IFRS 1 in preparing these financial statements and has elected not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 until 1 April 2005.
Consequently, the Group has applied the UK standard FRS 13 in the comparative year.
The disclosures below are those required by FRS 13 in respect of the year ended 31 March 2005.
The main adjustments that would be made to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39 are similar in nature and size to those presented in note 43.
Interest rate management The interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the Group at 31 March 2005, after taking account of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, is set out in the table below: Floating rate Fixed rate Total m m m Sterling 121 617 738 US$ 25 60 85 Other 11 146 678 824 The floating rate financial liabilities comprise bank borrowings bearing interest at rates fixed in advance for periods ranging from one week to six months by reference to LIBOR for sterling and US dollar borrowings.
The weighted average interest rates for the fixed rate financial liabilities of the Group at 31 March 2005, together with the periods for which the rates were fixed, are set out in the table below: Weighted average period for Weighted which the average interest rate interest rate is fixed % months Sterling 6.8 102 US$ 5.4 73 Other 10.0 22 6.7 98 The interest and other similar income rate profile of the financial assets of the Group at 31 March 2005, is set out in the table below: Non interest Floating rate bearing Total m m m Sterling 1,860 1,860 US$ 139 1 140 Euro 86 86 HK$ 11516 Other 34 4 38 2,120 20 2,140 The floating rate financial assets principally comprise cash and short-term deposits.
The financial assets include 6 million cash held as part of the 18 million assets held for sale.
Of the total, approximately 86% is held by the Groups central treasury operations as sterling and US dollar cash deposits with short-term maturities based on LIBOR and maturities ranging between one month and a year.
During the year, the Group also purchased 80 million of Credit Linked Notes with a maturity of 2012.
Refer to note 19 for further details.
At 31 March 2005, the Group does not have any significant financial assets earning a fixed return.
The non-interest bearing financial assets are held in a trade investment.
140 2005 06 Annual report Exchange risk management The following table shows the Groups currency exposures at 31 March 2005 on currency transactions that give rise to the net currency gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
Such exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating company involved.
Net foreign currency monetary assets liabilities in m Functional currency of the operating company US$ Sterling Euro Other Total Sterling 33 2 5 26 HK$ 22 Euro 55 Other 6641 17 4462 2 50 The amounts shown in the table above take into account the effect of any cross currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and other derivatives entered into to manage these currency exposures.
Maturity of financial liabilities The maturity profiles of the Groups financial liabilities, as listed in the fair value table below are disclosed in note 25.
Fair value The estimated fair values of the Groups financial instruments are summarised below: 31 March 2005 Carrying Estimated amount fair value m m Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations Trade investments 20 83 Cash 135 135 Short-term deposits 1,979 1,979 Cash held as part of held for sale assets 66 Loans and obligations under finance leases due within one year 23 23 Convertible bonds 252 277 Other loans and obligations due after more than one year 549 582 Derivative financial instruments held to manage interest rate and currency exposure Cross currency swap liabilities 15 15 Trade investments Trade investments above are detailed in note 19.
The fair value is based on year end quoted prices for listed investments and estimates of likely sales proceeds for other investments.
Cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits and short-term borrowings The carrying value approximates to fair value either because of the short maturity of the instruments or because the interest rate on investments is reset after periods not greater than six months.
Convertible bonds and other long-term debt The fair value is based on quoted market prices or, where these are not available, on the quoted market prices of comparable debt issued by other companies.
Forward rate agreements, interest rate and cross currency swaps The fair value of forward rate agreements, interest rate and cross currency swaps is the estimated amount which the Group would expect to pay or receive were it to terminate the swaps at the balance sheet date.
This takes into consideration current interest rates, current exchange rates and the current creditworthiness of the counterparties.
The nominal value of swaps at 31 March 2005 was 121 million.
There are no unrecognised gains and losses at 31 March 2005.
Forward exchange contracts The value of these contracts is the estimated amount, which the Group would expect to pay or receive on the termination of the contracts.
This takes into consideration current interest rates and current exchange rates.
At 31 March 2005 the Group had 29 million of such contracts outstanding.
2005 06 Annual report 141 Consolidated financial statements 142 2005 06 Annual report 144 Independent auditors report Individual 145 Balance sheet 146 Reconciliation of movements in financial equity shareholders funds for the Company statements 147 Notes to the financial statements of Cable and Wireless plc 2005 06 Annual report 143 Individual financial statements
