The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 January 2006 1.
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modied to include the revaluation of investments, and in accordance with the United Kingdom law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies SORP issued in December 2005 by the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
The Company has adopted certain new accounting policies in the year due to the issue of new Financial Reporting Standards FRSs.
Further details can be found on this and the following page as well as in Note 11 which summaries all restatements and prior year adjustments.
The SORP and changes to the Listing Rules have also given rise to some changes in the presentation.
The Statement of Total Return is now called the Income Statement and the total return column, as opposed to the revenue column, is now the profit and loss account of the Company.
There is a new primary statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds.
Revenue Dividends on equity shares are accounted for on an ex-dividend basis.
UK dividends are shown net of tax credits.
Income from convertible securities having an element of equity is recognised on an accruals basis.
Interest receivable on non-equity shares is recognised on an accruals basis.
Where circumstances dictate, special dividends will be recognised as a capital receipt.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the equivalent of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
Deposit interest receivable and stocklending fees are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Underwriting commission is recognised when the issue underwritten closes.
Investment management fee The investment management fee is calculated on the basis set out in Note 2 to the accounts and is charged to capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reect the Boards investment policy and prospective split of capital and income returns.
Other administrative expenses are charged in full to revenue, except handling charges which are charged to capital.
Valuation Investments are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement.
Listed investments are valued at bid market prices.
This represents a change in accounting policy, however in accordance with the exemption conferred by paragraph 108D of FRS 26, comparatives have not been restated.
In prior periods listed investments were valued at mid market prices, although for much of the portfolio this was last traded price which is the same as bid price.
As a consequence the adoption of bid prices on 1 February 2005 decreased the value of investments by 28,000, as shown in Note 8.
Unlisted investments are valued by the Directors based upon the latest dealing prices, stockbrokers valuations, net asset values, earnings and other known accounting information in accordance with the principles set out by the British Venture Capital Association issued in July 2003.
An unrealised Capital Reserve has been established to reect differences between value and book cost.
Net gains or losses arising on realisation of investments are taken directly to the realised Capital Reserve.
Finance costs In accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement, long term borrowings are stated as the amount of net proceeds immediately after issue plus the appropriate accrued finance costs at the balance sheet date.
The finance costs of such borrowings, are allocated to periods over the term of the debt on the effective rate basis.
Finance costs on long term borrowings are charged to capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reect the Boards investment policy and prospective split of capital and income returns.
Dividends payable on the 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock are classied as an interest expense and are charged in full to revenue.
Taxation Where expenses are allocated between capital and revenue, any tax relief obtained in respect of those expenses is allocated between capital and revenue on the marginal basis using the Companys effective rate of Corporation tax for the accounting period.
20 The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 January 2006 A deferred tax asset is recognised when it is more likely than not that the asset will be recoverable.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the rate of Corporation tax that is expected to apply when the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Foreign currency In accordance with FRS 23 The Effect of Changes in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates, the Company is required to nominate a functional currency, being the currency in which the Company predominately operates.
The Company has determined that sterling is the most appropriate functional currency, which is also the currency in which these accounts are presented.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
profits and losses thereon are recognised in Capital Reserves.
Dividends In accordance with FRS 21 Events After the Balance Sheet Date, the final dividend payable on Ordinary Shares is recognised as a liability when approved by shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised only when paid.
This is a change of accounting policy and results in a restatement of the prior year creditors and a consequential increase in the prior year net asset value.
Preference Stock Following the introduction of FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, the 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock is now classied as a liability as the rights of the stockholders to receive dividend payments are not calculated by reference to the Companys profits.
This is a change of accounting policy and prior year net assets have been restated accordingly as shown in Note 11.
