The Merchants Trust PLC Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of The ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Merchants Trust PLC will be held at 20 Moorgate, London Share is 25p: EC2R 6DA, on 9 May 2006 at 12.00 noon to transact the iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary following business.
Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle-market quotations for an Ordinary Share Routine Business taken from the London Stock Exchange Ofcial List for 1 To receive and adopt the Report of the Directors and the the five business days immediately preceding the day on Accounts for the year ended 31 January 2006 together with which the Ordinary Share is purchased or such other the Auditors Report thereon.
amount as may be specified by the London Stock 2 To declare a final dividend of 4.8p per Ordinary Share.
Exchange from time to time: 3 To re-elect Mr H. A. Stevenson as a Director.
iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the 4 To re-elect Mr R. A. Bareld as a Director.
Company in 2007 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 18 months from the passing of this resolution, unless such 5 To re-elect Sir John Banham as a Director.
authority is renewed prior to such time: and 6 To re-elect Sir Bob Reid as a Director, special notice having v the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary been received of the intention to propose his re-election.
Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed 7 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any 8 To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the such contract.
Company, to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
12 That for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised 9 To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant the Auditors.
securities within the meaning of the said Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,508,661 provided that: Special Business To consider and if thought t to pass the following resolutions.
i the authority granted shall expire five years from the date Resolutions 10 and 12 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and upon which this Resolution is passed but may be revoked Resolutions 11, 13 and 14 as Special Resolutions: or varied by the Company in general meeting and may be renewed by the Company in general meeting for a further 10 That the authorised share capital of the Company be increased period not exceeding five years: and to 37,600,936 by the creation of 42,972,499 additional Ordinary Shares of 25p each.
ii the authority shall allow and enable the Directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority 11 That the Company be and is hereby generally and which would or might require relevant securities to be unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases relevant securities in pursuance of any such offer or within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of Ordinary agreement as if that authority had not expired.
Shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, provided that: i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 15,305,380: 46 The Merchants Trust PLC Notice of Meeting 13 That the Directors be empowered in accordance with Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 12 as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that: i the power granted shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities wholly for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,276,299: ii the power granted shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution: and iii the said power shall allow and enable the Directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if that power had not expired.
14 That the amended Articles of Association of the Company in the form produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identication be and are hereby adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in place of and to the exclusion of the existing Articles of Association of the Company.
155 Bishopgate, By Order of the Board London EC2M 3AD K. J.
Salt 6 April 2006 Secretary Notes: Members entitled to attend and vote at this Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote in their stead.
The proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
Duly completed forms of proxy must reach the ofce of the Registrars at least 48 hours before the Meeting.
A form of proxy is provided with the Annual Report.
Completion of the enclosed form of proxy does not preclude a Member from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, Members must be entered on the Companys Register of Members at 6 p. m. on 7 May 2006 the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of Members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If, however, the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, Members must be entered on the Companys Register of Members at the time which is 48 hours before the time xed for the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Contracts of service are not entered into with the Directors, who hold ofce in accordance with the Articles of Association.
47 Printed by greenaways, a member of the ormolu group.
