Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19.
Derivatives and financial instruments Background The Groups financial instruments, other than derivative contracts, comprise securities and other investments, cash balances and debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations, for example, in respect of sales and purchases awaiting settlement and debtors for accrued income.
The numeral disclosure on page 47 excludes short term debtors and creditors.
The Group has little exposure to credit and cash flow risk.
Any unquoted investments in the portfolio are subject to liquidity risk.
This risk is taken into account by the Directors when arriving at their valuation of these items.
The principal risks the Group faces in its portfolio management activities are: market price risk, i. e. movements in the value of investment holdings caused by factors other than interest rate and currency movements: foreign currency risk: and interest rate risk The Investment Managers policies for managing these risks are summarised below and have been applied throughout the year.
Policy i Market price risk By the very nature of its activities, the Groups investments are exposed to market price fluctuations.
Further information on the investment portfolio and investment policy is set out in the Investment Managers Report.
ii Foreign currency risk A substantial proportion of the Groups portfolio is invested in overseas securities and their sterling value can be significantly affected by movements in foreign exchange rates.
The Group does not normally hedge against foreign currency movements affecting the value of the investment portfolio, but takes account of this risk when making investment decisions.
iii Interest rate risk The Group has taken advantage of a floating rate overdraft facility during the year, and had borrowings of 8,156,000 2005: nil at 31 December 2006. iv Use of derivatives The Group has entered into a variety of different derivative contracts during the year.
Guidelines agreed with the Investment Manager limit any exposure to options, futures and contracts for differences to a maximum of 10% of the Groups gross assets.
v Liquidity risk The majority of the Groups non current asset investments at the year end were listed on recognised Exchanges.
The investment strategy ensures that most of these investments are readily realisable and can be sold to meet any funding requirements.
Therefore any liquidity risk is substantially reduced.
vi Period to maturity risk All liabilities accruing to the Group fall due in one year, therefore the Group is not exposed to any significant risks in this area.
46 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc
