Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirteenth Annual General 10.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 9 above and, Meeting of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc will be held in substitution for the equivalent authority granted at the at the offices of BlackRock Investment Management UK Annual General Meeting held on 17 March 2006, the Limited, 33 King William Street, London EC4R 9AS on Directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered Thursday, 22 March 2007 at 11.30 a. m. to transact the pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the following business: Act to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 of the Act of the Company for cash, pursuant to the Ordinary business authority referred to above and to sell equity securities 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and the financial within the meaning of section 94 of the Act which are statements for the year ended 31 December 2006, held by the Company in treasury as defined in Section together with the report of the Auditor thereon.
162A 3 of the Act, as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotments and sales, provided that 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
this power shall be limited to the allotment and sale of 3.
To declare a final dividend of 2.50p per ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr I C S Barby as a Director.
a in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights, open offer or other offer of securities, to 5.
To re-elect Mr C A M Buchan as a Director.
holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as 6.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor to the may be practicable to their respective holdings of Company.
such shares, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary 7.
To authorise the Directors to determine the or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or Auditors remuneration.
any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of any recognised Special business regulatory body or stock exchange, or any other To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following matter whatever: resolutions as ordinary resolutions.
b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above 8.
That the Company shall continue in being as an up to an aggregate nominal amount of 420,747: investment trust.
and such power shall expire on 21 September 2008, 9.
That the Directors be and they are hereby generally and except that the Company may before such expiry make unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section offers or agreements which would or might require 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to exercise all equity securities to be allotted or sold after such expiry the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot as defined in section 80 2 of the Act up to an or sell equity securities in pursuance of such offers aggregate nominal amount of 420,747 provided this or agreements.
authority shall expire on 21 March 2012 but so that such authority shall allow the Company, acting by its 11.
That, in substitution for the Companys existing authority Directors, to make offers or agreements before the to make market purchases of ordinary shares of 5p in expiry of such authority which would or might require the Company, the Company be and it is hereby relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and authorised in accordance with section 166 of the the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market of such offers or agreements as if the power conferred purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act hereby had not expired.
of ordinary shares provided that: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby resolutions as special resolutions.
authorised to be purchased is 25,228,006: Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2006 53 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued b the minimum price which may be paid for an of the Company or any Associated Company of the ordinary share shall be 5p: Company as defined by the Companies Acts for these purposes provided that no Indemnified Person c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which shall be entitled to be indemnified for: may be paid for an ordinary share shall be the higher of 5% above the average of the market values of the A any liability incurred by him to the Company or ordinary shares for the five business days any Associated Company of the Company immediately preceding the date of the purchase, the as defined by the Companies Acts for price of the last independent trade and the highest these purposes : current bid on the trading venues where the B any fine imposed in criminal proceedings: purchase is carried out, and the net asset value per ordinary share on the date of the purchase: and C any sum payable to a regulatory authority by way of a penalty in respect of non-compliance with d unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall any requirement of a regulatory nature expire on 21 September 2008, save that the Company howsoever arising: may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which will or may be D any amount for which he has become liable in completed or executed wholly or partly after defending any criminal proceedings in which he is such expiry.
convicted and such conviction has become final: All ordinary shares purchased pursuant to the above E any amount for which he has become liable in authority shall be either: defending any civil proceedings brought by the Company or any Associated Company of the a cancelled immediately upon completion of Company as defined by the Companies Acts for the purchase: these purposes in which a final judgement has b held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as been given against him: and treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of F any amount for which he has become liable in the Act.
connection with any application under sections 12.
That Article 166 of the Companys Articles of Association 144 3 or 4 or 727 of the Companies Acts in be deleted and replaced with the following: which the court refuses to grant him relief and such refusal has become final.
166.1 Without prejudice to any indemnity to which any 166.2 person referred to in this Article may otherwise be Every Indemnified Person shall be provided with entitled, every present and former Director, alternate funds by the Company directly or indirectly to meet Director, Secretary or other officer of the Company expenditure incurred or to be incurred by him in any excluding any present or former Auditors an proceedings whether civil or criminal brought by Indemnified Person shall be indemnified by the any party which relate to anything done or omitted or Company against all liabilities, costs, charges and alleged to have been done or omitted by him as an expenses incurred by him in the actual or purported officer or employee of the Company or any execution and discharge of his duties to the Associated Company of the Company as defined by Company and any Associated Company of the the Companies Acts for these purposes, provided Company as defined by the Companies Acts for that he will be obliged to repay such amount no these purposes, including any liability incurred by later than: any Indemnified Person in disputing, defending, i in the event that he is convicted in proceedings, investigating or providing evidence in connection with the date when the conviction becomes final: any actual or threatened or alleged proceedings, civil or criminal, which relate to anything done or omitted ii in the event of judgement being given against him or alleged to be done or omitted by him as an officer in proceedings, the date when the judgement 54 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc becomes final except that such amount need not be repaid to the extent that the expenditure is recoverable under a valid indemnity given to him by the Company : or iii in the event that the court refuses to grant him relief on any application under sections 144 3 or 4 or 727 of the Companies Acts the date when the refusal becomes final.
By order of the Board BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Secretary 13 February 2007 Registered Office: 33 King William Street London EC4R 9AS Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote in his stead.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Forms of proxy must reach the office of the Companys registrar by 11.30 a. m. on 20 March 2007.
A form of proxy is provided to shareholders with the annual report.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Proxy votes can be submitted electronically at www-uk.
com proxy by using the PIN and SRN numbers printed on the form of proxy.
The latest time for the submission of proxy votes electronically is 11.30 a. m. on 20 March 2007.
If you are a CREST system user including a CREST Personal member you can appoint one or more proxies or give an instruction to a proxy by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted.
To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by Computershare ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which Computershare is able to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members should contact their CREST sponsor for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at 11.00 p. m. on 20 March 2007 the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the time applicable to the original meeting, the specified time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If, however, the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
No service contracts exist between the Company and any of the Directors, who hold office in accordance with letters of appointment and the Articles of Association.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2006 55
