Shareholder Information Financial calendar Dividend reinvestment scheme DRIP The timing of the announcement and publication of the Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to Companys results may normally be expected in the months purchase further shares in the Company.
Dividend shown below: reinvestment forms may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services PLC on 0870 707 1187.
Shareholders who February have already opted for dividend reinvestment do not need to Preliminary results and final dividend for year announced.
The last date for registering for this service for the Annual report and financial statements published.
March Share price Annual General Meeting.
The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted daily in The Financial Times under Investment Companies March April and in The Daily Telegraph and The Times under Dividend paid.
The share price is also available on the BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited August BlackRock website at www.
co. uk its Interim figures announced and interim report published.
ISIN SEDOL numbers Dividend 2006 The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended Companys shares are: 31 December 2006 is 2.50p per share.
Ordinary Shares The Board has declared a special dividend of 2.00p per ISIN GB0005774855 share payable on the same date as the final dividend.
L Bloomberg code MLW LN Ex-dividend date shares transferred without the dividend 21 February 2007 Record date last date for registering transfers to Share dealing receive the dividend 23 February 2007 Investors wishing to purchase more shares in the Company Last date for registering DRIP instructions 8 March 2007 or sell all or part of their existing holding may do so Dividend payment date 29 March 2007 through a stockbroker.
Most banks also offer this service.
For existing shareholders the Companys registrar, Payment of dividends Computershare Investor Services PLC, has introduced Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the first-named internet and telephone share dealing services.
The shareholder at their registered address.
Dividends may also telephone share dealing service is available on 0870 707 be paid direct into a shareholders bank account via 1187.
To access the internet share dealing, log on to BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated Clearing Service www-uk.
To use these Telecom Internet Protocol.
This may be arranged by services, you will need your shareholder reference number, contacting the Companys registrar, Computershare which is detailed on your certificate.
Investor Services PLC on 0870 707 1187 or by completing the Mandate Instructions section on the reverse of your CREST dividend counterfoil and sending this to the Companys The Companys shares have joined CREST, an electronic registrar, Computershare.
Tax vouchers will be sent to system for uncertificated securities trading.
shareholders at their registered address, unless other Private investors can continue to retain their share instructions have been given, to arrive on the payment date.
certificates and remain outside the CREST system.
Private investors are able to buy and sell their holdings in the same 50 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc way as they did prior to the introduction of CREST, although Deteriorating economic conditions in certain there may be differences in dealing charges.
countries may lead to aggressive exporting of their metal and mineral production potentially leading to Electronic communications price reductions.
Computershare provides a service to enable shareholders There may be exposure to significant currency, to receive correspondence electronically including annual political and nationalisation risks due to the location and interim reports if they wish.
If a shareholder opts to of the operation of companies in which the Company receive documents in this way, paper documents will only may invest.
be available on request unless electronic submission fails, in which case a hard copy will be mailed to the investors Shares of companies in the mining sector can prove last known address.
volatile and this may be reflected in the Companys share price.
Shareholders who opt for this service would receive a Notice of Availability via e-mail from Computershare with a Any investment in the Company will involve an above link to the relevant section of the BlackRock website where average risk and is suitable only for financially the documents can be viewed and printed.
For more information, to view the terms and conditions and Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future to register for this service, please visit Computershares performance.
The value of your investment in the internet site at www-uk.
com investor Company and the income from it can fluctuate as the you will need your shareholder reference number, which is value of the underlying investments fluctuates.
given on your share certificate or tax voucher.
Duration of the Company Electronic proxy voting Shareholders are given an opportunity at each annual Shareholders are able to submit their proxy votes general meeting to vote on an ordinary resolution to electronically via Computershares internet site at continue the life of the Company for a further twelve www-uk.
com proxy using a unique months.
identification PIN which will be provided with voting instructions and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Nominee Code Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the CREST members who wish to appoint one or more proxies Company undertakes: or give an instruction through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of described in the CREST manual.
More details are set out in shareholder communications, so long as an indication of the notes on the form of proxy and the Notice of Annual quantities has been provided in advance: General Meeting.
to allow investors holding shares through a nominee company to attend general meetings, provided the Risk Factors correct authority from the nominee company As the Company invests worldwide, the value of its is available: and shares is also affected by changes in rates of exchange.
that investors in the BlackRock Investment Trusts The price at which the Companys shares trade on the Savings Plan, ISA and PEP are automatically sent London Stock Exchange is not the same as their net shareholder communications, including details of asset value although they are related and therefore you general meetings, together with a form of direction to may realise returns which are lower or higher than facilitate voting and to seek authority to attend.
Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the A lack of growth in world industrial production may necessary authority to underlying shareholders to attend adversely affect metal prices.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2006 51 Shareholder Information continued Publication of net asset value portfolio analysis Personal Equity Plan PEP The net asset value NAV per share of the Company is PEPs have been superseded by ISAs as the tax-efficient calculated daily, with details of the Companys investments method of investment, but all PEP investments already in and performance being published monthly.
force by 5 April 1999 retained their tax-free status in line with ISAs.
Existing PEPs with other fund managers may be The daily NAV per share and monthly information are transferred to BlackRock for investment in the Companys released through the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory ordinary shares without affecting any tax benefits.
News Service and are available on the BlackRock website at www.
co. uk its and through the Reuters News For more information on PEP transfers, or an existing Service under the code BLRKINDEX, on page 8800 on BlackRock Investment Trusts PEP, call free on 0800 44 55 22.
Topic 3 ICV terminals and under BLRK on Bloomberg monthly information only.
Shareholder enquiries The Companys registrar is Computershare Investor Internet Services PLC.
In the event of queries regarding your holding Other details about the Company are also available on the of shares, please contact the registrar on 0870 707 1187.
co. uk its and Changes of name or address must be notified in writing to shareholders can check details of their holdings on the registrar at: Computershares website at Computershare Investor Services PLC www-uk.
com investor PO Box 82 The financial statements and other literature are published The Pavilions on the BlackRock website.
Visitors to the website need to Bridgwater Road be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing Bristol BS99 7NH the preparation and dissemination of the financial Certain details relating to your holding can also be checked statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
As a security check, specific information needs to be input accurately to gain Savings Plan access to an individuals account.
This includes your The Company participates in the BlackRock Investment shareholder reference number, available from either your Trusts Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly share certificate or tax voucher.
The address of the investments and occasional lump sum investments in the Computershare website is Companys ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like www-uk.
com investor information on the Savings Plan should call BlackRock free on 0800 44 55 22.
General enquiries Enquiries about the Company should be directed to: Individual Savings Accounts ISA ISAs are a tax-efficient method of investment, introduced by The Secretary the Government.
The Company is a qualifying investment Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc for the purposes of investment in the stocks and shares 33 King William Street component of either a mini or maxi ISA.
Investors may London EC4R 9AS invest up to 7,000 in the stocks and shares component of a Telephone: 0800 44 55 22 maxi ISA, or up to 3,000 in the stocks and shares Enquiries about the Savings Plan, ISA or PEP should be component of a mini ISA.
directed to: The Companys shares are eligible investments within the Freepost RLTZ-KHUH-KZSB stocks and shares component of the BlackRock Investment BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Trusts ISA, which is a maxi ISA, details of which are PO Box 9036 available from BlackRock by calling free on 0800 44 55 22.
Chelmsford CM99 2XD Telephone: 0800 44 55 22 52 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc
