NOTES TO ACCOUNTS The Companys revenue account may be Interest Rate Risk 20 Contingent Liabilities, affected by uctuations in short term interest The Company nances its operations by Guarantees and Financial rates: income from overseas investment can means of equity shareholders funds, bank Commitments be affected by currency uctuations.
borrowings and the issue of debenture At 30 April 2006 the Company had stocks.
The value of the Companys bond The Companys financial instruments, which contingent liabilities of 13,500,000 portfolio is subject to interest rate risk.
It is provide finance for investment activities, 2005 20,500,000 in respect of not the Companys policy to hedge this risk.
currently comprise its debenture stocks and a subscription agreement relating to During the year the Company invested 25 its cash and liquid resources.
In addition to participating loan notes which expire on million in a specially constructed Swap Rate the equity portfolio, the Company maintains 31 December 2010.
Linked Note see the financial assets note on investments in UK and overseas corporate page 44 for further details.
bonds as part of its investment strategy.
21 Directors Interests in Contracts The Company has issued xed interest The Company may, from time to time, enter No Director has a contract of service with debenture stocks.
into derivative transactions to hedge speci c the Company.
currency or interest rate risk.
During the year Credit Risk During the year no Director was interested the Company closed a forward currency In addition to interest rate risk, the in any contract or other matter requiring contract which had been taken out in Companys investments in bonds are also disclosure under section 232 of the the previous year for a sum of US$200m subject to credit risk.
Credit risk re ects Companies Act 1985. equivalent then to about 50% of its US the possibility that a borrower will not portfolio to hedge against dollar weakness, be able to meet its obligation to make 22 Derivatives and Other Financial realising a loss of 3.3m.
payments of interest or principal when they Instruments fall due.
The Managers analyse the credit The Company has precisely fide ned risk of the Companys bond investments guidelines to govern the purchase or writing The Company operates as an investment prior to purchase and continue to monitor of options on individual shares.
No options trust in accordance with section 842 of developments in credit quality subsequently.
were purchased or written in the year under the Income and Corporation Taxes Act review.
As such, the Company is exempt Liquidity Risk from capital gains tax on the sale of The Companys policy with regard to liquidity Trading in financial instruments is not within its investments.
The Managers monitor is to ensure continuity of funding.
Short term the normal activities of an investment trust, investment movements, the level of forecast exibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.
nor is it the Companys policy to trade in income and expenditure and the amount such instruments.
Transactions in financial The Companys assets comprise mainly of proposed dividends to ensure that the instruments generally arise as a result of readily realisable securities which can be provisions of S842 are not breached.
sold freely to meet funding commitments if The international nature of the Companys necessary.
The Companys Managers may not enter investment activities provides opportunities into derivative transactions without the prior for both market appreciation and currency Foreign Currency Risk approval of the Board, and all borrowing gains, but leaves it exposed to the risk of The international nature of the Companys facilities require Board authorisation.
The market volatility and currency uctuations.
investment activities gives rise to a currency Board agrees policies for managing risk risk which is inherent in the performance In the case of an investment trust, capital with the Companys Managers.
The main of its overseas investments.
It is not the pro ts from investing activities and risks arising from the Companys financial Companys policy to hedge this risk on a currency gains are not recognised in the instruments are market risk, interest rate risk, continuing basis, but the Company may revenue account, but are credited directly credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency from time to time match speci c overseas to a separate capital reserve which the risk.
investment with foreign currency borrowings.
Company is prohibited from distributing in Market Risk the form of dividends.
The revenue account is subject to currency The Company is exposed to market risk uctuation arising on overseas income.
The The Company has long term borrowings, due to uctuations in the market prices of Company does not hedge this currency risk.
detailed in note 13, the aim of which its investments.
The Companys Managers is to achieve improved performance in actively monitor market and economic data rising markets.
Further information on the and report to the Board, which considers Companys gearing policy is given in the investment policy on a regular basis.
