NOTES TO ACCOUNTS 1 Principal Accounting Policies A number of new UK Financial Reporting based in the UK and the Company is subject vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends Standards have been introduced which the to the UKs regulatory environment.
in cash, the net amount of the cash Company must comply with this year.
These dividend declared is credited to the The overall effect of these changes in standards are part of the UK convergence revenue account.
Any excess in the value shareholders funds and reserves is detailed programme with International Accounting of the shares received over the amount of in note 2.
Standards and as such have required the cash dividend foregone is recognised most UK listed companies to restate prior as capital.
a Basis of Accounting year gures to re ect the new accounting The accounts are prepared under the d Expenses treatment.
These financial statements historical cost convention, modi ed to include All expenses are accounted for on an have been prepared on the basis of the the revaluation of xed asset investments, accruals basis and are charged through the accounting policies set out in the Companys and on the assumption that approval as an revenue account except where they relate Annual Financial Statements at 30 April investment trust will continue to be granted.
directly to the acquisition or disposal of an 2005 except as detailed below: investment, in which case they are added to The accounts have been prepared in  investments have been valued at the cost of the investment or deducted from accordance with The Companies Act 1985, fair value through pro t or loss in the sale proceeds.
applicable UK accounting standards and with accordance with FRS 26 Financial the SORP issued in 2003, revised in 2005. e Long Term Borrowings and Finance Instruments: Measurement.
The effect In order to better re ect the activities of the Costs is to move from a mid price to a bid trust and in accordance with guidance issued price basis of valuation, resulting in a Long term borrowings are carried in the by the AITC, supplementary information which reduction in the value of investments and balance sheet at the cumulative amount of net analyses the pro t and loss account between unrealised capital reserves of 605,000 proceeds after issue, plus accrued finance items of a revenue and capital nature has 2005 767,000 : costs.
The finance costs of such borrowings been presented in the Income Statement.
are allocated to the revenue account at a  in compliance with FRS 21 Events after constant rate on the carrying amount.
Issue the Balance Sheet Date, dividends Financial assets and financial liabilities are costs are written off at a constant rate over declared after the period end are no recognised in the Companys balance sheet the life of the borrowings.
Gains and losses longer treated as a liability at the period when it becomes a party to the contractual on the repurchase or early settlement of debt end.
The effect is to reduce creditors provisions of the instrument.
is wholly charged to capital.
and increase revenue reserves by b Investments 4,023,000 2005 3,496,000. f Taxation Purchases and sales of investments are  income from xed interest securities Deferred taxation is provided on all timing accounted for on a trade date basis.
has been calculated using the effective differences which have originated but interest rate method.
The net effect of this Listed investments are valued at fair value not reversed by the balance sheet date, change in the year to 30 April 2006 is through pro t or loss.
The fair value of listed calculated at the current tax rate relevant to to reduce unrealised capital reserves and security investments is bid value, or in the the bene t or liability.
Deferred tax assets increase revenue reserves by 22,000 case of FTSE 100 constituents, at last traded are recognised only to the extent that it 2005 nil.
prices issued by the London Stock Exchange.
is more likely than not that there will be taxable pro ts from which underlying timing  The implementation of FRS 25 and Listed investments include Open Ended differences can be deducted.
the 2005 Statement of Recommended Investment Companies OEICs authorised Practice Financial Statements of in the UK: these are valued at closing prices g Foreign Currencies Investment Trust Companies SORP has and are classi ed for valuation purposes Transactions involving foreign currencies are resulted in changes in the presentation according to the principal geographical converted at the rate ruling at the time of the of total returns.
Previously dividend area of the underlying holdings.
Assets and liabilities in foreign distributions in respect of a year were currencies are translated at the closing rates The fair value of unlisted security investments disclosed on the Statement of Total of exchange at the balance sheet date with uses valuation techniques, determined by the Return and the revenue column of that the exception of forward foreign exchange Directors, based upon latest dealing prices, statement was deemed to be the pro t contracts which are valued at the forward stockbroker valuations, net asset values and and loss account of the Company.
rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any other information, as appropriate.
We now present an Income Statement gain or loss arising from a change in which does not show the distribution in c Income exchange rate subsequent to the date of the respect of equity shares and, whilst it transaction is included as an exchange gain i Income from equity investments is brought still shows information on capital and or loss in capital reserve or revenue reserve into account on the date on which the revenue returns, it is the total return as appropriate.
investments are quoted ex-dividend or, column which is regarded as the pro t where no ex-dividend date is quoted, and loss account of the Company.
h Capital Reserves when the Companys right to receive Dividend distributions are now shown i Capital Reserves Realised: payment is established.
in the Reconciliation of Movements in Gains and losses on realisation of ii Interest from xed interest securities Shareholders Funds and in the Notes to investments and realised exchange including the zero coupon element of the the Accounts.
differences of a capital nature are dealt swap rate linked note is recognised on with in this reserve.
Purchases of the FRS 22 Earnings per Share and FRS 23 The an effective yield basis.
Companys own shares for cancellation Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates iii Unfranked investment income includes are also funded from this reserve.
have both been adopted in full but have had the taxes deducted at source.
no impact on the results for the year and no ii Capital Reserves Unrealised: prior year adjustment has been required.
iv Franked investment income is stated net Unrealised appreciation depreciation of tax credits.
represents the amount by which the The Directors consider the Companys market value of assets and liabilities v Underwriting commission and interest functional currency to be sterling as the differs from their book value and is dealt receivable on deposits are recognised Companys shareholders are predominantly with in this reserve.
