S a v o y S t r e e t Carting lane B e d f o r d S t r e e t Adam St Robert St Agar St York Buildings Buck St Villiers St Charing Cross NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the RSA, 8 John Adam Street, London WC2N 6EZ on 1 August 2006 at 11.00 am.
If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call Vaudeville Th us on 0800 027 0133.
Adel phi Th Baillie Gifford may record your call.
RSA Cleopatras Needle Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Act of ordinary shares of 5p each in By order of the Board seventy-seventh Annual General Meeting of the capital of the Company Shares, Baillie Gifford & Co The Monks Investment Trust PLC will be held provided that: Managers and Secretaries at the RSA, 8 John Adam Street, London a the maximum aggregate number 30 June 2006 WC2N 6EZ on Tuesday, 1 August 2006, of Shares hereby authorised to be at 11.00 am for the following purposes: Notes purchased shall be 14.99% of the 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the issued ordinary share capital on meeting is entitled to appoint one or more Ordinary Business the date on which this resolution is proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his passed: 1.
To approve the Accounts of the her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of Company for the year to 30 April 2006 the Company.
A Form of Proxy for the use of b the minimum price which may be with the Reports of the Directors and of members is enclosed and to be valid must be paid for a Share shall be 5p: the Auditors thereon.
lodged with the Registrars of the Company c the maximum price exclusive of not less than 48 hours before the time set for 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration expenses which may be paid for a the meeting.
Share shall be an amount equal to 2.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerti cated 105% of the average of the middle 3.
Securities Regulations 2001, the Company speci es that only those shareholders entered market quotations as derived from 4.
To re-elect Mr EM Harley as a Director.
on the Register of Members of the Company the Daily Of cial List of the London as at 11.00 am on 30 July 2006 or, in the 5.
To re-elect Mr DCP McDougall as a Stock Exchange for the Shares for event that the meeting is adjourned, on the the 5 business days immediately Director.
Register of Members 48 hours before the time preceding the date of purchase: and 6.
To re-appoint  of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the LLP as Independent Auditors.
d unless previously varied, revoked number of ordinary shares registered in their or renewed by the Company in 7.
To authorise the Directors to determine name at that time.
Changes to the entries on general meeting, the authority the remuneration of the Independent the Register of Members after 11.00 am on hereby conferred shall expire at the Auditors.
30 July 2006 or, in the event that the meeting conclusion of the Annual General is adjourned, in the Register of Members 48 Meeting of the Company to be before the time of any adjourned meeting, To consider and, if thought t, pass the held in respect of the year ending shall be disregarded in determining the rights following resolution as a Special Resolution: 30 April 2007 or, on 31 January of any person to attend or vote at the meeting, 8.
That, in substitution for any existing 2008, whichever is the earlier, save notwithstanding any provisions in any that the Company may, prior to authority under section 166 of the enactment, the Articles of Association of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but such expiry, enter into a contract to Company or other instrument to the contrary.
purchase Shares under such authority without prejudice to the exercise of 3.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie any such authority prior to the date which will or might be completed or Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens executed wholly or partly after the Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment hereof, the Company be authorised, Trust ISA PEP who wish to vote and or in accordance with section 166 of the expiration of such authority and may attend the meeting must complete and return make a purchase of Shares pursuant Act, to make market purchases within the enclosed reply-paid Form of Direction.
the meaning of section 163 3 of the to any such contract.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
46 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 William IV St E C A L Chandos Place P Y Ho St Adelphi Ter O Maiden Lane D S T R A N m A V s S en rd t Ga s men John Adam Street bank ia Em Victor e m a a h T E m b an k m e n t r e v i R h r Du
