FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Further Shareholder Information This is not a recommendation to buy, sell How to Invest Share Register Enquiries or hold shares in Monks.
If you are unsure The Companys shares are traded on Computershare Investor Services PLC of what action to take contact a financial the London Stock Exchange.
They can maintains the share register on behalf of the adviser authorised under the Financial be bought by placing an order with a Company.
In the event of queries regarding Services and Markets Act 2000.
Please stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser shares registered in your own name, please note that share values may go down as well to do so, or through the Baillie Gifford contact the Registrars on 0870 702 0010. as up, which may result in you receiving less savings vehicles see inside back cover for By quoting the reference number on your than what you originally invested.
share certi cate you can check your holding on the Registrars web site at Computershare Investor Services PLC is www-uk.
com investor Sources of Further Information on authorised and regulated by the Financial the Company Services Authority.
Telephone Share Dealing Service The price of shares is quoted daily in the Where this has been received in a country A telephone share dealing service has Financial Times and can also be found on where the provision of such a service would been established with our Registrar, the Baillie Gifford website at be contrary to local laws or regulations, this Computershare Investor Services PLC, www.
com, Trustnet at should be treated as information only.
which provides shareholders with a way www.
co. uk and on other financial of buying or selling Monks Investment Trust websites.
Company factsheets are also Electronic Proxy Voting PLC ordinary shares on the London Stock available on the Baillie Gifford website and If you hold stock in your own name you Exchange.
There are no forms to complete are updated monthly.
These are available can choose to vote by returning proxies and the share price at which you deal will from Baillie Gifford on request.
electronically at generally be con rmed to you whilst you www-uk.
com investor proxy are still on the telephone.
Please ensure you Key Dates have your Shareholder Reference Number If you have any questions about this service Ordinary shareholders normally receive two SRN ready when making the call.
The SRN please contact Computershare on 0870 dividends in respect of each financial year.
appears on your share certi cate.
An interim dividend is paid in February and information about this service please phone a final dividend is paid in August.
CREST Proxy Voting is normally held in July August.
If you are a user of the CREST system Please note that this share dealing service is including a CREST Personal Member, Capital Gains Tax not available to shareholders participating you may appoint one or more proxies or in the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, give an instruction to a proxy by having an Plan, Childrens Savings Plan, ISA, PEP and the market value of an ordinary share in appropriate CREST message transmitted.
the Company as at 31 March 1982 as adjusted for the five for one share split in July 2001 was 14.1p.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 47
