to a proxy whether previously appointed from time to time subject to Baillie Giffords Investment trusts offer investors the or otherwise via the CREST system, the personal account dealing rules.
following: CREST message must be received by the  participation in a diversi ed portfolio of issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later Risks shares: than 48 hours before the time appointed Past performance is no guarantee of future for holding the meeting.
For this purpose,  constant supervision by experienced performance.
The value of your investment the time of receipt will be taken to be professional managers: and and any income from it is not guaranteed the time as determined by the timestamp and may go down as well as up and you  the Company is free from capital gains generated by the CREST system from which may not get back the amount invested.
This tax on capital pro ts realised within its the issuers agent is able to retrieve the is because the share price is determined portfolio although investors are still liable message.
CREST Personal Members or other by the changing conditions in the relevant for capital gains tax on pro ts when CREST sponsored members should contact stockmarkets in which the Trust invests and by selling their investment.
their CREST sponsors for assistance with the supply and demand for the Trusts shares.
For further These accounts have been approved by the You should regard your investment as medium information on CREST procedures, limitations Directors of the Monks Investment Trust PLC.
and systems timings, please refer to the Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited Monks has borrowed money to make further CREST Manual.
The Company may treat as is the ISA Manager of the Baillie Gifford investments.
This is commonly referred to as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST Investment Trust ISA, the PEP Manager of gearing.
The risk is that when this money in the circumstances set out in Regulation the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust PEP, the is repaid by the Trust, the value of these 35 5 a of the Uncerti cated Securities Manager of the Baillie Gifford Investment investments may not be enough to cover the Regulations 2001.
Computershare Investor Trust Share Plan and Childrens Savings borrowing and interest costs and the Trust Services PLC is authorised and regulated by Plan and the promoter of the Baillie Gifford makes a loss.
If the Trusts investments fall in the Financial Services Authority.
Alliance Trust Savings Limited value, gearing will increase the amount of the is the provider, trustee and administrator Where this has been received in a country loss in value to investors.
The more highly the of the Alliance Trust Personal Pension Plan where the provision of such a service would Trust is geared, the greater this effect will be.
through which the Baillie Gifford Select be contrary to local laws or regulations, this Pension is made available.
Baillie Gifford As Monks invests in overseas securities, should be treated as information only.
Savings Management Limited is wholly changes in the rates of exchange may also owned by Baillie Gifford & Co.
Both are cause the value of your investment and any authorised and regulated by the Financial income it may pay to go down or up.
Baillie Gifford only The value of tax reliefs will depend on provides information about its products and personal circumstances and tax rates and does not provide investment advice.
The reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs and staff of Baillie Gifford may hold shares in PEPs, could change at any time in the future.
48 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Monks shares are traded on the London Baillie Giffords Investment Trust Stock Exchange.
They can be bought PEP Transfer through a stockbroker, by asking a You can transfer an existing PEP to access a professional adviser to do so, or through the different market or to change your investment Baillie Gifford savings vehicles see below.
Baillie Giffords Investment Baillie Gifford Select Pension Trust Share Plan The Baillie Gifford Select Pension provided You can invest from 250 or from 30 per by Alliance Trust Savings Limited, is a selfmonth.
The plan is designed to be a costinvested personal pension.
The minimum effective way of saving on a regular or lump contribution amount is 50. sum basis.
Further Information Baillie Giffords Investment Client Relations Team Trust ISA Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited You can invest in a tax ef cient way by Calton Square investing a minimum of 2,000 or from 1 Greenside Row 250 per month or by transferring an ISA EDINBURGH EH1 3AN with a value of at least 2,000 from your existing manager.
Tel: 0800 027 0133 We may record your call Baillie Giffords Childrens Savings Plan E-mail: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
com A cost-effective plan tailored especially to Website: www.
com meet the requirements to save for children.
You can invest a minimum of 250 or from Fax: 0131 275 3955 30 per month.
Independent Auditor Directors Registered Of ce Registrar Broker  LLP Chairman: Computershare Computershare UBS Limited Chartered Accountants and JGD Ferguson Investor Services PLC Investor Services PLC 1 Finsbury Avenue Registered Auditors 2nd Floor PO Box 82 London EC2M 2PP CC Ferguson Erskine House Vinters Place The Pavilions Tel: 0207 567 8000 EM Harley PO Box 90 68 Upper Thames Bridgwater Road DCP McDougall 6873 Queen Street Street Bristol BS99 7NH Edinburgh EH2 4NH London EC4V 3BJ Tel: 0870 702 0010 Company registration No.
236964 Managers and Secretaries Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 Website: www.
