Glossary of Terms and Definitions Actual Gearing Total Assets as below less all cash and fixed interest assets excluding convertibles divided by Shareholders funds.
Asset Cover The value of a companys net assets available to repay a certain security.
Asset cover is usually expressed as a multiple and calculated by dividing the net assets available by the amount required to repay the specific security.
Assets Employed Total assets less current liabilities.
B Ordinary shares B Ordinary shares carry the same rights as the Ordinary shares.
The difference is that B Ordinary Shareholders receive their dividends by means of a capitalisation issue as opposed to a cash dividend.
With effect from the payment of the final dividend in 2007, the capitalisation issue received by B Ordinary Shareholders will be made every time a dividend is paid on the Ordinary shares.
B Ordinary Shareholders also have the right to convert their shares into Ordinary shares once a year.
More details regarding this are shown on page 64.
Discount The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is lower than the net asset value per share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Dividend Cover Earnings per share divided by Dividends per share expressed as a ratio.
Dividend Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share price.
Earnings per share Revenue attributable to equity Shareholders divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares and or B Ordinary shares in the period.
Net Asset Value The value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose included current and long-term liabilities.
The net asset value divided by the number of shares in issue produces the net asset value per share.
Operating Costs All costs charged to revenue and capital, excluding performance fees, taxation, finance costs, the costs of purchases of share capital and the costs of buying and selling investments.
Potential Gearing Total Assets including all debt being used for investment purposes divided by Shareholders funds.
Premium The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust exceeds the net asset value per share.
The premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Price Earnings Ratio The ratio is calculated by dividing the middle-market price per share by the earnings per share.
The calculation assumes no change in earnings but in practice the multiple reflects the stock markets view of a companys prospects and profit growth potential.
Prior Charges The name given to all borrowings including debentures, long and short term loans and overdrafts that are to be used for investment purposes, reciprocal foreign currency loans, currency facilities to the extent that they are drawn down, index-linked securities, and all types of preference or preferred capital.
Redemption Yield The measure of the annualised total return on the current price of a security up to the date of its repayment.
The calculation is based on aggregated income and capital returns, no account being taken of taxation.
Total Assets Total Assets less current liabilities, excluding any short term loans there were no short term loans as at 31 December 2006.
Total Return Total Return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the month that the share price goes xd.
The NAV Total Return involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the Company on the date to which that dividend was earned, eg quarter end, half year or year end date.
