Notice of Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of Old Mutual plc the Company will be held in the Presentation Suite, 2nd Floor, Old Mutual Place, 2 Lambeth Hill, London EC4V 4GG on Thursday, 24 May 2007 at 11.00 a. m. for the following purposes: 1 To receive and adopt the directors report and audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006.
2 To declare a final dividend of 4.15p per ordinary share.
3 i To elect Mr J C Nicholls as a director of the Company ii To elect Mr B Nqwababa as a director of the Company iii To elect Mr L H Otterbeck as a director of the Company iv To re-elect Mr C D Collins as a director of the Company v To re-elect Mr J V F Roberts as a director of the Company.
4 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company.
5 To authorise the Group Audit and Risk Committee to settle the remuneration of the auditors.
As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, those numbered 6, 7 and 8 as Ordinary Resolutions and those numbered 9, 10 and 11 as Special Resolutions: Ordinary Resolutions 6 To approve the Remuneration Report in the Companys report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006.
7 To approve proposals arising from closure of the Companys Unclaimed Shares Trusts.
8 That, pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, and in substitution for the authority granted under that section at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 10 May 2006, the directors be and they are hereby authorised generally and unconditionally to allot relevant securities as defined in the said section 80 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 55,009,000 provided that: i this authority shall expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company: and ii the Company may before such expiry make one or more offers or agreements that would or might require securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
Special Resolutions 9 That, subject to the passing of the immediately preceding resolution, the directors be and they are hereby authorised to allot equity securities, within the meaning of section 94 of the Companies Act 1985, up to a maximum nominal aggregate amount of 27,504,000 for cash and or where such allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of that Act, as if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment.
This authority shall expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, save that the Company may before such expiry make one or more offers or agreements that would or might require securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
10 That the Company be and is hereby authorised in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to purchase Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the Company Ordinary Shares by way of market purchase as defined in section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 upon and subject to the following conditions: i the maximum number of such Ordinary Shares that may be purchased pursuant to this authority when aggregated with any purchases made pursuant to any of the contingent purchase contracts referred to in Resolution 11 below shall be 550,090,000: ii the minimum price that may be paid for any Ordinary Share is 10p and the maximum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid for such Ordinary Share is not more than 5% above the average of the middle market values taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the date on which such Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: iii such authority shall continue for a period of 12 months from the date hereof or until the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008, whichever is the earlier, provided that any contract for the purchase of any such Ordinary Shares that is concluded before the expiry of the said authority may be executed wholly or partly after the said authority expires: and iv all Ordinary Shares purchased pursuant to the said authority shall either: a be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase: or b be held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 224 11 That the following contingent purchase contracts, in the respective forms produced to the meeting or with any non-material amendments thereto that the directors may consider to be necessary or desirable, each be and is hereby approved in accordance with section 164 of the Companies Act 1985 and that the Company be and is hereby authorised to make off-market purchases of its shares pursuant to each such contract for a period of 12 months from the date hereof or until the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008, whichever is the earlier : i contract between the Company and Merrill Lynch South Africa Pty Limited relating to Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the Company Ordinary Shares traded on the JSE Limited, pursuant to which the Company may make off-market purchases from Merrill Lynch South Africa Pty Limited of up to a maximum of 550,090,000 Ordinary Shares in aggregate such maximum number to be reduced by any purchases made pursuant to the authority in Resolution 10 above or any of the other contingent purchase contracts referred to in this Resolution 11 : ii contract between the Company and Deutsche Securities relating to Ordinary Shares traded on the JSE Limited pursuant to which the Company may make off-market purchases from Deutsche Securities of up to a maximum of 550,090,000 Ordinary Shares in aggregate such maximum number to be reduced by any purchases made pursuant to the authority in Resolution 10 above or any of the other contingent purchase contracts referred to in this Resolution 11 : iii contract between the Company and Stockbrokers Malawi Limited relating to Ordinary Shares traded on the Malawi Stock Exchange, pursuant to which the Company may make off-market purchases from Stockbrokers Malawi Limited of up to a maximum of 550,090,000 Ordinary Shares in aggregate such maximum number to be reduced by any purchases made pursuant to the authority in Resolution 10 above or any of the other contingent purchase contracts referred to in this Resolution 11 : iv contract between the Company and Investment House Namibia Pty Limited relating to Ordinary Shares traded on the Namibian Stock Exchange, pursuant to which the Company may make off-market purchases from Investment House Namibia Pty Limited of up to a maximum of 550,090,000 Ordinary Shares in aggregate such maximum number to be reduced by any purchases made pursuant to the authority in Resolution 10 above or any of the other contingent purchase contracts referred to in this Resolution 11 : v contract between the Company and Merrill Lynch International relating to Ordinary Shares traded on the Stockholm Stock Exchange, pursuant to which the Company may make off-market purchases from Merrill Lynch International of up to a maximum of 550,090,000 Ordinary Shares in aggregate such maximum number to be reduced by any purchases made pursuant to the authority in Resolution 10 above or any of the other contingent purchase contracts referred to in this Resolution 11 : vi contract between the Company and Deutsche Securities relating to Ordinary Shares traded on the Stockholm Stock Exchange, pursuant to which the Company may make off-market purchases from Deutsche Securities of up to a maximum of 550,090,000 Ordinary Shares in aggregate such maximum number to be reduced by any purchases made pursuant to the authority in Resolution 10 above or any of the other contingent purchase contracts referred to in this Resolution 11 : vii contract between the Company and Imara Edwards Securities Private Limited relating to Ordinary Shares traded on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange, pursuant to which the Company may make off-market purchases from Imara Edwards Securities Private Limited of up to a maximum of 550,090,000 Ordinary Shares in aggregate such maximum number to be reduced by any purchases made pursuant to the authority in Resolution 10 above or any of the other contingent purchase contracts referred to in this Resolution 11.
By order of the Board Registered Office: 5th Floor Martin C Murray Old Mutual Place Group Company Secretary 2 Lambeth Hill 26 February 2007 London EC4V 4GG Notes: 1 A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint a proxy ies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his or her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member who holds shares through Old Mutual Nominees may instruct the nominee company to vote on his or her behalf or request such nominee company to appoint him or her as proxy to enable him or her to attend the meeting in person Old Mutual Nominees is Old Mutual South Africa Nominees Pty Limited, Old Mutual Namibia Nominees Pty Limited, Old Mutual Zimbabwe Nominees Private Limited or Old Mutual Blantyre Nominees Limited, if shares are held through the Groups nominee on the South African, Namibian, Zimbabwe or Malawi register respectively.
Beneficial shareholders who have dematerialised or immobilised their shareholdings in STRATE other than through Old Mutual Nominees may provide their CSDP or broker with voting instructions in accordance with the applicable custody agreement or may apply to that CSDP or broker for a letter of representation from the registered shareholder to enable them to attend the meeting in person.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies for the meeting and any adjournment s of the meeting may do so by using the procedures in the CREST manual.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Beneficial holders of shares through the Swedish nominee, VPC AB, may provide VPC with voting instructions or may apply for a letter of representation from the registered shareholder to enable them to attend the meeting in person.
The Company has appointed WM-data of Box 47104, 100 74 Stockholm as its proxy handling agent in Sweden for the purpose of the meeting.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 225 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 2 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives notice that only those shareholders entered on the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. UK time on 22 May 2007 will be entitled to attend and to vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries on the register after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
3 To be effective, the form of proxy or, as the case may be, the voting instruction form and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, must be received at the return address specified on the form of proxy or voting instruction form or by the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH by not later than 11.00 a. m. UK time on 22 May 2007.
If no return address is specified on the voting instruction form, this will be because the records available to the Company show your shareholding to have been dematerialised in the context of STRATE through a CSDP or broker other than under the Issuer-Sponsored Nominee Programme.
In that case, you should contact your CSDP or broker to ascertain the return address for it to process your voting instructions.
It is recommended that, because of the requirement for votes in relation to shares dematerialised or immobilised in the context of STRATE to be collated through CSDPs and brokers and then reconciled through PLC Nominees Pty Limited, voting instructions by beneficial owners of such shares be submitted so as to arrive at least 72 hours before the time of the meeting.
For beneficial shareholders who hold their shares through the Swedish nominee, VPC AB, it is recommended that you submit your voting instructions to WM-data so as to arrive by close of business on 18 May 2007 in order to assist matching of records with data relating to underlying beneficial shareholdings.
The message appointing or instructing a proxy making use of the CREST service must be transmitted so as to be received by Computershare [ID 3RA50] not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
No messages received through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available any special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
4 The completion and return of a form of proxy or voting instruction form will not preclude a member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting from doing so if he or she wishes.
5 The forms of proxy and voting instruction forms include a Vote Withheld option against each resolution, which enables a member to abstain on that resolution.
However, it should be noted that a Vote Withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes For and Against that resolution.
Documents available for inspection Copies of the directors service contracts, the register of directors interests and the contingent purchase contracts referred to in Resolution 11 are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company in London during normal business hours on each business day from the date of this notice until the Annual General Meeting and in the Presentation Suite, 2nd Floor, Old Mutual Place, 2 Lambeth Hill, London EC4V 4GG from at least 15 minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of that meeting.
These documents will also all be available in the AGM section of the Companys website until the conclusion of that meeting.
Annual General Meeting Explanatory notes There are a number of items of special business included in the agenda for our AGM.
The directors recommend that you vote in favour of all of the items of business at the AGM, as they intend to do in respect of their personal shareholdings in the Company.
These explanatory notes provide further details of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM.
Annual General Meeting 2007 Resolution 2 Dividend A final dividend of 4.15p per Ordinary Share is recommended by the Board.
Subject to the dividend being approved at the Annual General Meeting, it is expected that the relevant subsidiaries of the Company will declare to the trustees of the dividend access trusts, which have been established in each of South Africa, Zimbabwe, Namibia and Malawi, an equivalent amount of dividend in relation to the estimated number of shares on those territories respective registers in the respective local currencies of those territories by reference to the exchange rates prevailing at the close of business on 19 April 2007, as determined by the Company.
Shareholders on the branch registers or, in the case of Namibia, the relevant section of the principal register in those territories will then receive their dividend, in accordance with the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, from the dividend access trust concerned, rather than from the Company.
In relation to shareholders who hold their shares in the Company through the Swedish nominee, VPC AB, the Kronor equivalent of the Sterling dividend will also be fixed by reference to the exchange rate prevailing at the close of business on 19 April 2007, as determined by the Company.
The equivalent amounts of the recommended dividend in each of the five other currencies will be notified by the Company to each of the stock exchanges on which the Companys shares are listed on 20 April 2007.
Subject to being approved by shareholders, the final dividend will be paid to holders on the register at the close of business on the record date 11 May 2007, with payment being made on 31 May 2007.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 226 Resolutions 3 i to v Election and re-election of directors Mr Nicholls and Mr Otterbeck, who have been appointed as directors since the last Annual General Meeting, and Mr B Nqwababa, who has been appointed to the Board with effect from 1 April 2007, will automatically retire in accordance with Article 94 of the Companys Articles of Association and will seek election at the meeting.
Mr Collins and Mr Roberts retire by rotation in accordance with Articles 95 and 96 of the Companys Articles of Association and will seek re-election at the meeting.
Mr Marks will retire at the meeting and not seek re-election.
Biographical details of each of the directors who is standing for election or re-election accompany their photographs on pages 44 and 45 of this Report.
Each of the retiring non-executive directors who is standing for election is considered by the Board to be independent in character and free from any business or other relationship that could interfere with the exercise of his objective, unfettered and independent judgement.
The Nomination Committee of the Company has also conducted an assessment of the performance of each of the retiring candidates and has reviewed the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity represented on the Board.
Having received the results of that assessment and review, the Board recommends to shareholders the election or re-election of each of the retiring directors referred to in Resolutions 3 i to v. The election or re-election of directors is considered a significant matter, and approval of the elections and re-elections will therefore be carried out by separate ordinary resolutions.
Subject to his being elected, Mr Nqwababas appointment is expected to last for an initial term of three years from his date of appointment i. e. until 1 April 2010 and will then be considered for renewal.
Details of Mr Otterbecks and Mr Collins engagement terms and of Mr Nicholls and Mr Roberts service agreements are contained in the Remuneration Report.
Resolutions 4 and 5 Auditors KPMG Audit Plc has indicated its willingness to continue in office and Resolution 4 proposes the re-appointment of that firm as the Companys auditors.
Resolution 5 proposes that the Group Audit and Risk Committee should be authorised to determine the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 6 Approval of the Remuneration Report In accordance with the directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, an advisory resolution will be proposed to approve the Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 69 of the Annual Report.
A Summary of the Remuneration Report is also contained in the Companys Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements.
The Remuneration Report includes details of the members of the Remuneration Committee and the Companys policy on directors remuneration, and describes the remuneration arrangements in place for the executive directors and non-executive directors.
The full version of the Remuneration Report can also be accessed on the Companys website.
Resolution 6 is of an advisory nature only, and failure to pass the Resolution will therefore not have any legal consequences relating to existing arrangements.
However, the Board will take the outcome of the vote into consideration when considering the Companys remuneration policy.
Resolution 7 Approval of proposals arising from closure of the Companys Unclaimed Shares Trusts The Unclaimed Shares Trusts were orginally established in South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Malawi and Bermuda upon demutualisation of the South African Mutual Life Assurance Society in 1999.
They were put in place to hold shares in the Company and certain other related benefits that had arisen on demutualisation for the persons entitled thereto as qualifying policyholders of the Society.
When the original Unclaimed Shares Trusts expired in 2004, shareholder approval was obtained and endorsed through a Scheme of Arrangement approved by the UK High Court for the Company to extend the Unclaimed Shares Trust arrangements for a further period or periods of up to five years.
The Company decided to establish successor Unclaimed Shares Trusts the Trusts for an initial extension period of approximately two years, which expired on 31 August 2006.
During 2006, the Board decided not to create further successor Trusts, but instead to deal with the residual assets in accordance with the proposals now submitted to shareholders for approval.
In accordance with the deeds that established the Trusts, the Trustees of the respective Trusts will be disposing, over the coming months, by sale or transfer to the Companys local Foundation, as agreed with the Company, of the remaining 59.4 million shares in the Company held by the Trusts.
Out of the remaining 59.4 million shares, approximately 53.9 million relate to the Trust in South Africa, 3.4 million to Zimbabwe, 1.5 million to Namibia and 0.6 million to Malawi.
The 168,600 shares left in the Bermuda Trust have already been sold.
Subject to approval by the Companys shareholders under Resolution 7, the Company intends to use these proceeds, estimated at 100 million R1.4 billion, in proportion to the jurisdiction from which they arose, as follows: approximately 31 million R430 million will be set aside effectively to extend the claims period of unconfirmed eligible policyholders until 31 August 2009.
Under these arrangements, any future claims that would have been valid if submitted prior to 1 September 2006 will be settled by means of a cash payment based on the closing share price on 31 August 2006 in the Trust jurisdiction concerned other than Zimbabwe, where an adjustment will be made at the discretion of Old Mutual Zimbabwe for the effects of local inflation.
The Board will decide during the first half of 2009 whether to allow any further extension of the claims period, but does not currently anticipate doing so, as by then the period for claims to be submitted will have lasted for more than ten years: a total of approximately 48 million R670 million, less any potential taxes arising from the disposal of the shares, will be used either directly or via donation to the Old Mutual Foundations to fund good causes in the jurisdiction of the Trust concerned.
The focus of the good causes to be selected will be projects that the Company believes will help to generate sustainable economic benefit in the countries concerned: and a total of approximately 21 million R300 million will be used to enhance the benefits of specific small policyholders of the Groups life businesses in South Africa and Namibia.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 227 Resolutions 8 and 9 Authority to allot shares In accordance with section 80 of the UK Companies Act 1985 the Companies Act, it is proposed to renew the authority for the directors to allot relevant securities up to an amount not exceeding 10% rounded down to the nearest 1,000 nominal of the current issued ordinary share capital at 23 February 2007 without having to obtain prior approval from shareholders.
In accordance with section 95 of the Companies Act, it is proposed to renew the authority of the directors to allot equity securities for cash without first being required to offer such securities pro rata to existing shareholders in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act.
This authority relates to up to 275,040,000 ordinary shares, being 5% rounded down to the nearest 1,000 nominal of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at 23 February 2007.
Resolutions 10 and 11 Purchase of own shares We are proposing that the existing authorities for the Company to buy back its shares should be renewed for a further year.
The equivalent authorities approved by shareholders at last years meeting were not activated during 2006, but they do provide the Company with desirable flexibility in its capital management.
Approval is sought in Resolution 11 for seven contingent purchase contracts with the respective named counterparties relating to potential purchases of the Companys shares on the five overseas stock exchanges where the Company has a secondary listing.
These contracts are intended to enable the Company to buy back its shares on these exchanges in similar fashion and subject to the same overall limit on quantum as on-market purchases on the London Stock Exchange.
The authorities sought are subject to a limit of 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 23 February 2007 rounded down to the nearest 1,000 nominal.
The purchase price for any shares cannot be more than 5% above the average of: i for on-market purchases the middle market quotations taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List or ii for purchases under any of the contingent purchase contracts, the closing quotations in local currency terms as reported by the local stock exchange concerned, in each case for the five business days preceding such purchase.
Any shares purchased under the authority granted by Resolution 10 or pursuant to any of the contingent purchase contracts to be approved under Resolution 11 will either be cancelled or may be held as treasury shares see the following paragraph.
In accordance with the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003, companies may now retain any of their own shares that they have purchased as treasury stock with a view to possible re-issue at a future date, rather than cancelling them.
If the Company were to purchase any of its own shares pursuant to the authorities sought in Resolutions 10 and 11, it would consider holding them as treasury stock, provided that the number did not at any one time exceed 10% of Old Mutual plcs issued share capital.
This would give the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost-effectively, and would provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
The authorities under Resolutions 10 and 11, if approved, will only be exercised if market conditions make it advantageous for the Company to do so and the Board considers this to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 228
