Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation Statement of compliance Old Mutual plc the Company is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities other than those held by long-term insurance funds.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
Both the Parent Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial instruments classified as fair value through the income statement or as available for sale, owneroccupied property and investment property.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with these accounting policies, other than for investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, which are stated at cost less impairments see note 1e xiv in accordance with IAS 27.
Judgments made by the directors in the applications of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 1 p. b Foreign currency translation i Foreign currency transactions The Groups presentation currency is Pounds Sterling.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign operations is the currency of the primary economic environment in which these entities operate.
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values were determined.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are converted into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the initial recognition of the asset and liability and are not subsequently retranslated.
Exchange gains and losses on the translation and settlement during the period of foreign currency assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement.
Exchange differences for non-monetary items are recognised in equity when the changes in the fair value of the non-monetary item is recognised in equity, and in the income statement if the changes in fair value of the non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement.
ii Foreign investments The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated from their respective functional currencies into the Groups presentation currency using the year-end exchange rates, and their income and expenses using the average exchange rates.
Other than in respect of cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004, unrealised gains or losses resulting from translation of functional currencies to the presentation currency are included as a separate component of shareholders equity.
To the extent that these gains and losses are effectively hedged, the gains and losses arising on the hedging instruments are also included in that component of shareholders equity.
Upon the disposal of subsidiaries the cumulative amount of exchange differences deferred in shareholders equity, net of attributable amounts in relation to net investments, is recognised in the income statement.
Cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004 were reset to zero.
c Group accounting i Subsidiary undertakings and special purpose entities Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Subsidiary undertakings include special purpose entities created to accomplish a narrow, well-defined objective, which may take the form of a corporation, trust, partnership or unincorporated entities, and where the substance of the relationship between the Group and the entity indicates that the entity is controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The Company considers the existence and effect of potential voting rights currently exercisable or convertible when assessing whether it has control.
Entities which the Company controls by the virtue of the Company retaining the majority of risks or benefits, are also included in the consolidated financial statements.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 92 1 Accounting policies continued c Group accounting continued i Subsidiary undertakings and special purpose entities continued The Group financial statements include the assets, liabilities and results of the Company and subsidiary undertakings.
This includes consolidated special purpose entities and holdings in mutual funds.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal or control ceasing.
The consolidated financial statements do not include the wholly owned company  Skandia Skandia Liv and its subsidiaries.
Skandia Livs business is a mutual life assurance company which is highly regulated within a strict legal framework for mutual life assurance companies in Sweden, particularly in relation to its relationship with its holding company.
The Group does not have the power to control in such a way as to access the benefits usually associated with share ownership due to the legal and regulatory restrictions.
Those benefits accrue to the policyholders of Skandia Liv.
Consequently, Skandia Liv is not consolidated.
The shares in Skandia Liv are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy for other equity financial instruments.
Intra-group balances and transactions, and all profits and losses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.
Unrealised losses are not eliminated to the extent that they provide evidence of impairment.
ii Associates An associate is an entity, including an unincorporated entity such as a partnership, over which the Group has significant influence but not control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee and that is neither a subsidiary nor an investment in a joint venture.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The carrying amount of such investments is reduced to recognise any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Where a Group enterprise transacts with an associate of the Group, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way but only to the extent there is no evidence of impairment.
Investments in associates, which are held with a view to subsequent resale are accounted for as non-current assets held for sale and those held by policyholder long-term insurance funds are accounted for as financial assets fair valued through the income statement.
d Insurance and investment contracts Long-term business i Classification of contracts Contracts sold as long-term business with the exception of unit-linked assurance contracts are categorised into insurance contracts, contracts with a discretionary participation feature or investment contracts in accordance with the classification criteria set out in the following paragraphs.
For the Groups unit-linked assurance business, contracts are separated into an insurance component and an investment component known as unbundling, and each unbundled component is accounted for separately in accordance with the accounting policy for that component.
Contracts under which the transfer of insurance risk to the Group from the policyholder is not significant are classified as investment contracts.
Contracts under which the Group accepts significant insurance risk from another party the policyholder by agreeing to compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event the insured event adversely affects the policyholder are classified as insurance contracts.
Insurance risk is risk other than financial risk.
Financial risk is the risk of a possible future change in one or more of a specified interest rate, security price, security index, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, a credit rating or credit index, or other variable, provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not specific to a party to the contract.
Contracts with a discretionary participating feature are those under which the policyholder holds a contractual right to receive additional payments as a supplement to guaranteed minimum payments.
These additional payments, the amount or timing of which is at the Groups discretion, represent a significant portion of the total contractual payments and are contractually based on 1 the performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of contract, 2 realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of assets held by the Group or 3 the profit or loss of the Group.
Investment contracts with discretionary participating features are accounted for in the same manner as insurance contracts with discretionary participating features.
ii Premiums on long-term insurance Premiums and annuity considerations receivable under insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature are stated gross of commission, and exclude taxes and levies.
Premiums in respect of linked insurance contracts are recognised when the liability is established.
Premiums in respect of other insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participation feature are recognised when due for payment.
Outward reinsurance premiums are recognised when due for payment.
Amounts received under investment contracts other than those with a discretionary participating feature are recorded as deposits and credited directly to investment contract liabilities.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 1 Accounting policies continued d Insurance and investment contracts continued Long-term business continued iii Revenue on investment management service contracts Fees charged for investment management services provided in conjunction with an investment contract are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of services are deferred and amortised over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
Fees charged for investment management service contracts in our asset management businesses are also recognised on this basis.
iv Claims paid on long-term insurance Claims paid under insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature include maturities, annuities, surrenders, death and disability payments.
Maturity and annuity claims are recorded as they fall due for payment.
Death and disability claims and surrenders are accounted for when notified.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Amounts paid under investment contracts other than those with a discretionary participating feature are recorded as deductions from investment contract liabilities.
v Insurance contract provisions Insurance contract provisions for African businesses have been computed using a gross premium valuation method.
Provisions in respect of African business have been made in accordance with the Financial Soundness Valuation basis as set out in the guidelines issued by the Actuarial Society of South Africa in Professional Guidance Note PGN 104 2001.
Under this guideline, provisions are valued using realistic expectations of future experience, with margins for prudence and deferral of profit emergence.
Provisions for investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature are also computed using the gross premium valuation method in accordance with the Financial Soundness Valuation basis.
Surplus allocated to policyholders but not yet distributed i. e. bonus smoothing reserve related to these contracts is included as a provision.
For the US business, the insurance contract provisions are calculated using the net premium method, based on assumptions as to investment yields, mortality, withdrawals and policyholder dividends.
For the term life products, the assumptions are set at the time the contracts are issued, whereas the assumptions are updated annually, based on experience for the annuity products.
Universal life and deferred annuity reserves are computed on the retrospective deposit method, which produces reserves equal to the cash value of the contracts.
Reserves on immediate annuities and guaranteed payments are computed on the prospective deposit method, which produces reserves equal to the present value of future benefit payments.
For other territories, the valuation bases adopted are in accordance with local actuarial practices and methodologies.
Derivatives embedded in an insurance contract are not separated and measured at fair value if the embedded derivative itself qualifies for recognition as an insurance contract.
In this case the entire contract is measured as described above.
The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of its liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and intangible assets is sufficient in view of estimated future cash flows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash flows and compares this amount to the carrying value of the liability at discount rates appropriate to the business in question.
Where a shortfall is identified, an additional provision is made.
The provision estimation techniques and assumptions are periodically reviewed, with any changes in estimates reflected in the income statement as they occur.
Whilst the directors consider that the gross insurance contract provisions and the related reinsurance recovery are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events and may result in significant adjustments to the amount provided.
The Group applies shadow accounting in relation to certain insurance contract provisions, which are supported by available for sale assets or owner occupied properties, on which unrealised gains and losses are recognised within equity.
Adjustments are made to the insurance contract provisions, deferred acquisition cost assets and the value of in-force business to reflect unrealised gains and losses in respect of assets held to back the insurance contract provisions, if the local generally accepted accounting policies and actuarial guidelines for measuring the insurance contract provisions and related intangible assets do not take account of these unrealised gains and losses.
The adjustments to the insurance liabilities and related intangible assets are recognised in equity to the extent that the unrealised gains or losses on the assets backing the insurance contract provisions and related intangible assets are also recognised directly in equity.
When the assets being shadow accounted are sold, the related amounts that were recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 94 1 Accounting policies continued d Insurance and investment contracts continued Long-term business continued vi Investment contract liabilities Investment contract liabilities in respect of the Groups US long-term non-linked business are measured at fair value.
Investment contract liabilities for non-linked business in the Groups other territories are measured at fair value, determined by reference to the fair value of the underlying assets.
For linked liabilities, including the deposit component of unbundled unit-linked assurance contracts, fair value is calculated as the account balance, which is the value of the units allocated to the policyholder, based on the bid price of the assets in the underlying fund adjusted for tax.
Investment contract liabilities measured at fair value are subject to a deposit floor such that the liability established cannot be less than the amount repayable on demand.
Derivatives embedded in investment contracts are separated and measured at fair value, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract liability is calculated on an amortised cost basis.
vii Acquisition costs Acquisition costs for insurance contracts comprise all direct and indirect costs arising from the sale of insurance contracts.
As the gross premium valuation method used in African territories to determine insurance contract provisions makes implicit allowance for the deferral of acquisition costs, no explicit deferred acquisition cost asset is recognised in the balance sheet for the contracts issued in these areas.
For the US life insurance business, an explicit deferred acquisition cost asset has been established in the balance sheet.
Deferred acquisition costs are amortised over the period that profits on the related insurance policies are expected to emerge.
Acquisition costs are deferred to the extent that they are deemed recoverable from available future profit margins.
Deferral of costs on insurance business in other territories is limited to the extent that they are deemed recoverable from available future margins.
viii Costs incurred in acquiring investment management service contracts Incremental costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment management service contract are recognised as an asset if they can be identified separately and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and is amortised as the related revenue is recognised.
Costs attributable to investment management service contracts in the asset management businesses are also recognised on this basis.
General insurance business All classes of general insurance business are accounted for on an annual basis.
ix Premiums on general insurance Premiums stated gross of commissions exclude taxes and levies and are accounted for in the period in which the risk commences.
The proportion of the premiums written relating to periods of risk after the balance sheet date is carried forward to subsequent accounting periods as unearned premiums, so that earned premiums relate to risks carried during the accounting period.
Outward reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the related direct insurance.
x Claims on general insurance Claims incurred comprise the settlement and handling costs of paid and outstanding claims arising during the year and adjustments to prior year claim provisions.
Outstanding claims comprise claims incurred up to, but not paid, at the end of the accounting period, whether reported or not.
Outstanding claims do not include any provision for possible future claims where the claims arise under contracts not in existence at the balance sheet date.
The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its claim liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of its liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and the unearned premium reserve is sufficient in view of estimated future cash flows.
Whilst the directors consider that the gross provisions for claims and the related reinsurance recoveries are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events, and may result in significant adjustments to the amount provided.
Adjustments to the amounts of claims provisions established in prior years are reflected in the financial statements for the period in which the adjustments are made, and disclosed separately if material.
The methods used and estimates made are reviewed regularly.
xi Acquisition costs on general insurance Acquisition costs, which represent commission and other related expenses, are deferred and amortised over the period in which the related premiums are earned.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 1 Accounting policies continued d Insurance and investment contracts continued General insurance business continued xii Reinsurance The Group cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its net loss potential through the diversification of its risks.
Assets, liabilities and income and expense arising from ceded reinsurance contracts are presented separately from the related assets, liabilities, income and expense from the related insurance contracts because the reinsurance arrangements do not relieve the Group from its direct obligations to its policyholders.
Only rights under contracts that give rise to a significant transfer of insurance risk are accounted for as reinsurance assets.
Rights under contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk, are accounted for as financial instruments.
Reinsurance premiums for ceded reinsurance are recognised as an expense on a basis that is consistent with the recognition basis for the premiums on the related insurance contracts.
For general insurance business, reinsurance premiums are expensed over the period that the reinsurance cover is provided based on the expected pattern of the reinsured risks.
The unexpensed portion of ceded reinsurance premiums is included in reinsurance assets.
The net amounts paid to a reinsurer at the inception of a contract may be less than the reinsurance assets recognised by the Group in respect of its rights under such contracts.
Any difference between the premium due to the reinsurer and the reinsurance asset recognised is included in the income statement in the period in which the reinsurance premium is due.
The amounts recognised as reinsurance assets are measured on a basis that is consistent with the measurement of the provisions held in respect of the related insurance contracts.
Reinsurance assets include recoveries due from reinsurance companies in respect of claims paid.
These are classified as debtors arising from reinsurance operations and are included within other assets in the balance sheet.
Reinsurance assets are assessed for impairment at each balance sheet date.
An asset is deemed impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after its initial recognition, that the Group may not recover all amounts due, and that the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
e Financial instruments i Recognition and fide-recognition A financial asset or liability is recognised when, and only when, the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when, and only when: The contractual rights to the cash flows arising from the financial assets have expired or been forfeited by the Group: or It transfers the financial asset including substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset: or It transfers and no longer controls the financial asset, regardless of whether it has retained or transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
A financial liability is derecognised when and only when the liability is extinguished, that is, when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, assigned, cancelled or has expired.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part thereof extinguished or transferred to another party and consideration received, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
All purchases and sales of financial assets that require delivery within the time frame established by regulation or market convention regular way purchases and sales are recognised at trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Otherwise such transactions are treated as derivatives until settlement occurs.
Loans and receivables are recognised at fair value plus attributable transaction costs when cash is advanced to borrowers.
ii Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices, discounted cash flow models and option pricing models as appropriate.
All derivatives are carried as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as hedges for hedge accounting purposes are included in investment income or finance costs as appropriate.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 96 1 Accounting policies continued e Financial instruments continued iii Hedge accounting Qualifying hedging instruments must either be derivative financial instruments or non derivative financial instruments used to hedge the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in fair value or changes in cash flows.
Changes in the value of the financial instrument should be expected to offset changes in the fair value or cash flows of the underlying hedged item.
The Group designates certain qualifying hedging instruments as either 1 a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge : 2 a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised asset or liability, a forecasted transaction or a firm commitment and could affect profit or loss cash flow hedge : or, 3 a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Hedge accounting is used for qualifying hedging instruments designated in this way provided certain criteria are met.
The Groups criteria for a qualifying hedging instrument to be accounted for as a hedge include: Upfront formal documentation of the hedging instrument, hedged item or transaction, risk management objective and strategy, the nature of the risk being hedged and the effectiveness measurement methodology that will be applied is prepared before hedge accounting is adopted: The hedge is documented showing that it is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the risk management and strategy detailed in the upfront hedge documentation: The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured: The hedge is assessed and determined to have been highly effective on an ongoing basis: and For cash flow hedges of a forecast transaction, an assessment that it is highly probable that the hedged transaction will occur and will carry profit and loss risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that prove to be highly effective in relation to hedged risk, are recorded in the income statement, along with the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to that specific hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation and that prove to be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk are recognised in equity.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
Any previous adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing financial instrument carried at amortised cost, as a result of previous hedge accounting, is amortised in the income statement from the date hedge accounting ceases, to the maturity date of the financial instrument, based on the effective interest rate method.
The adjustment to the carrying amount of a previously hedged available for sale security remains in retained earnings until the disposal of the equity security.
For hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, any cumulative gains or losses recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
iv Embedded derivatives Certain derivatives embedded in other financial and non-financial instruments other than investment contracts, such as the conversion option in a convertible bond, are treated as separate derivatives and recognised as such on a stand alone basis, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value with unrealised gains and losses reported in the income statement.
If it is not possible to determine the fair value of the embedded derivative, the entire hybrid instrument is categorised as fair value through the income statement and measured at fair value.
v Offsetting financial instruments and related income Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Income and expense items are offset only to the extent that their related instruments have been offset in the balance sheet, with the exception of those relating to hedges, which are disclosed in accordance with the income statement effect of the hedged item.
vi Interest income and expense Interest income and expense in relation to financial instruments carried at amortised cost or held as available for sale is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method taking into account the expected timing and amount of cash flows.
Interest income and expense include the amortisation of any discount or premium or other differences between the initial carrying amount of an interest-bearing instrument and its amount at maturity calculated on an effective interest rate basis.
Interest earned on financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement is presented as part of interest income.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 1 Accounting policies continued e Financial instruments continued vii Non-interest revenue Non-interest revenue in respect of financial instruments principally comprises fees and commissions and other operating income.
These are accounted for as set out below: Fee and commission income Loan origination fees for loans that are probable of being drawn down, are deferred together with related direct costs and recognised as an adjustment to the effective yield on the loan.
Commission and fees arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third party, such as the acquisition of loans, shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses, are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction.
Other Revenue other than interest, fees and commission including fees and insurance premiums, which includes exchange and securities trading income, dividends from investments and net gains on the sale of banking assets, is recognised in the income statement when the amount of revenue from the transaction or service can be measured reliably, it is probable that the economic benefits of the transaction or service will flow to the Group and the costs associated with the transaction or service can be measured reliably.
viii Financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement Financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement are comprised of trading securities and those securities that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the income statement.
Trading securities are those that were either acquired for generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price or dealers margin, or are securities included in a portfolio in which a pattern of short-term profit taking exists, or are derivatives that are not designated as effective hedging instruments.
Securities that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the income statement are those where the treatment either eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis for instance with respect to financial assets supporting insurance contract provisions or are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis for instance financial assets supporting shareholder funds.
Financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
If quoted bid prices are unavailable the fair value of the financial asset is estimated using pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques.
Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on managements best estimates and the discount rate used is a market-related rate at the balance sheet date for an instrument with similar terms and conditions.
Where pricing models are used, inputs are based on market-related measures at the balance sheet date.
Realised and unrealised fair value gains and losses on all financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement, including derivatives and other financial instruments, are included in investment income.
Interest earned whilst holding financial assets at fair value through the income statement is reported within Investment income and Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Dividends receivable are included separately in dividend income, within Investment income, when a dividend is declared.
ix Sale and repurchase agreements and lending of securities Securities sold subject to linked repurchase agreements are retained in the financial statements as trading or investment securities and the counter party liability is included in amounts owed to other depositors, deposits from other banks, or other money market deposits, as appropriate.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell at a pre-determined price are recorded as loans and advances to other banks or customers as appropriate.
The difference between sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the lives of agreements using the effective yield method.
Securities lent to counter parties are also retained in the financial statements and any interest earned recognised in the income statement using the effective yield method.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in trading income.
The obligation to return them is recorded at fair value as a trading liability.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 98 1 Accounting policies continued e Financial instruments continued x Other financial assets The Group classifies its other financial assets into the following two categories: held-to-maturity and available for sale assets.
Other financial assets with fixed maturity which are quoted in an active market where management has both the intent and the ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity.
Investment securities intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices are classified as available for sale.
Management determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of the purchase.
Other financial assets are initially recognised at their fair value, plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Available for sale financial assets are subsequently re-measured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets classified as available for sale are recognised in equity.
When available for sale financial assets are disposed the related accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from available for sale financial assets.
When available for sale assets are impaired the resulting loss is shown separately in the income statement as an impairment charge.
Held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective yield method, less any impairment write-downs.
Interest earned whilst holding other financial assets is reported within Investment income and Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
xi Impairment of financial assets and purchased loans and receivables A financial asset is deemed to be impaired when its carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, and there is evidence to suggest that the impairment occurred subsequent to the initial recognition of the asset in the financial statements.
The amount of the impairment loss for assets carried at amortised cost is calculated as being the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the financial instruments original effective interest rate.
The recoverable amount, for assets classified as available for sale and measured at fair value, is the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of interest for a similar financial asset.
All such impairments are recognised in the income statement.
Where there is evidence of the reversal of the impairment of a financial asset held at amortised cost, the release of the impairment allowance is credited to the income statement.
This is consistent with the initial recognition of impairment charges.
Where there is evidence of the reversal of the impairment of a financial asset classified as available for sale the release of the impairment allowance is credited to the available for sale reserve within equity.
xii Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, other than those classified by the Group as fair value through profit or loss or available for sale.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost.
Third party expenses such as legal fees incurred in securing a loan are treated as part of the cost of the transaction.
xiii Impairment of loans and receivables A provision for loan impairment is established if there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due from a financial contract.
The amount of the impairment is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, being the present value of expected cash flows, including amounts recoverable from guarantees and collateral, discounted based on the effective interest rate at inception.
The impairment provision also covers losses where there is objective evidence that losses are present in components of the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date, but these components have not yet been specifically identified.
When a loan is uncollectable, it is written-off against the related impairment provision.
Subsequent recoveries are credited to losses on loans and advances in the income statement.
If the amount of impairment subsequently decreases due to an event occurring after the write down, the release of the impairment provision is credited to the income statement.
Impairment reversals are limited to what the carrying amount would have been, had no impairment losses been recognised.
Interest income on loans and receivables held at amortised cost is recognised on the impaired amount using the original effective interest rate before the impairment.
xiv Impairment of Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, loans and receivables Impairment of Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, loans and receivables are accounted for in the same way as impairments of other financial assets, and loans and receivables as set out above.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 1 Accounting policies continued e Financial instruments continued xv Borrowings, including convertible bonds Borrowings are recognised initially at their issue proceeds net of transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently borrowings are stated at amortised cost and any difference between net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
The conversion options included in convertible bonds are recorded separately in shareholders equity.
The Group does not recognise any change in the value of this option in subsequent periods.
The remaining obligation to make future payments of principal and interest to bondholders is calculated using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond and is presented on the amortised cost basis in other borrowed funds until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the balance sheet and the difference between the carrying amount of a liability and the consideration paid is included in other income.
xvi Acceptances Acceptances comprise undertakings by the Group to pay bills of exchange drawn on customers.
The Group expects most acceptances to be settled simultaneously with the reimbursement from customers.
Acceptances are disclosed as liabilities with the corresponding contra-asset recorded in the balance sheet.
The assets and liabilities are measured at amortised cost.
xvii Financial liabilities, including investment contracts Financial liabilities are classified as either fair value through income statement or other trading liabilities.
Financial liabilities classified as fair value through the income statement include trading securities and those liabilities that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the profit and loss.
Financial liabilities held for trading are carried at fair value, where the fair value of a financial liability with a demand feature is not less than the amount payable on demand, discounted from the first date that the amount could be required to be paid.
Liabilities that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the income statement are those where the treatment either eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis and are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis.
Financial liabilities classified as other trading liabilities are recognised initially at cost less directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition all other financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
f Tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
i Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
ii Deferred tax Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet liability method, based on temporary differences.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax base.
The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is charged to the income statement except to the extent that it relates to a transaction that is recognised directly in equity, or a business combination that is an acquisition.
The effect on deferred taxation of any changes in tax rates is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items previously charged or credited directly to equity.
A deferred-tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available, against which the unutilised tax losses and deductible temporary differences can be used.
Deferred-tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefits will be realised.
In certain circumstances, as permitted by accounting guidance, deferred tax balances are not recognised.
In particular where the liability relates to the initial recognition of goodwill, or transactions that are not a business combination and at the time of their occurrence affect neither accounting or taxable profit.
Note 22 includes further detail of circumstances in which the Group does not recognise temporary differences.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 100 1 Accounting policies continued g Intangible assets i Goodwill and goodwill impairment All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
At acquisition date, the Group recognises the fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria.
The cost of a business combination is the fair value of purchase consideration due at date of acquisition plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Contingent purchase consideration is recognised to the extent that it is probable and can be measured reliably.
Any minority interest in the acquiree is stated at the minoritys proportion of the net fair values of those items.
Any excess between the cost of the business combination and the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill is adjusted for any subsequent re-measurement of contingent purchase consideration.
In accordance with the exemptions permitted under IFRS 1, First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, business combinations that took place prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated.
Purchased goodwill is allocated to one or more cash-generating units CGUs, being the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets.
The directors annually test for impairment of each CGU containing goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.
Where businesses are acquired as part of the same investment acquisition, these are combined for determining recoverability of the related goodwill.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
However, impairment losses relating to goodwill are not reversed.
ii Present value of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business The present value of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business is capitalised in the consolidated balance sheet as an intangible asset.
The capitalised value is the present value of cash flows anticipated in the future from the relevant book of insurance and investment contract policies acquired.
This is calculated by performing a cash flow projection of the associated long-term fund and book of in-force policies in order to estimate future after tax profits attributable to shareholders.
The valuation is based on actuarial principles taking into account future premium income, mortality, disease and surrender probabilities, together with future costs and investment returns on the assets supporting the fund.
These profits are discounted at a rate of return allowing for the risk of uncertainty of the future cash flows.
The key assumptions impacting the valuation are discount rate, future investment returns and the rate at which policies discontinue.
The asset is amortised over the expected profit recognition period on a systematic basis over the anticipated lives of the related contracts.
The amortisation charge is stated net of any unwind in the discount rate used to calculate the asset.
The recoverable amount of the asset is re-calculated at each balance sheet date and any impairment losses recognised accordingly.
iii Other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination Contractual banking and asset management customer relationships, relationships with distribution channels and similar intangible assets, acquired as a part of a business combination, are capitalised at their fair value, represented by the estimated net present value of the future cash flows from the relevant relationships acquired at the date of acquisition.
Brands and similar items acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at their fair value based on a relief from royalty valuation methodology.
Subsequent to initial recognition such acquired intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as set out below: Distribution channels 10 years Customer relationships 10 years Brand 15 20 years The estimated life is re-evaluated on a regular basis.
iv Internally developed software Internally developed software is amortised over its estimated useful life.
Such assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Software is recognised in the balance sheet if, and only if, it is probable that the relevant future economic benefits attributable to the software will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
Costs incurred in the research phase are expensed whereas costs incurred in the development phase are capitalised subject to meeting specific criteria, set out in the relevant accounting guidance.
The main criteria being that future economic benefits can be identified as a result of the development expenditure.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the relevant software, which range between two and five years.
v Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 1 Accounting policies continued h Impairment all assets other than goodwill and financial instruments The Group assesses all assets other than goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life on an ongoing basis for indications of impairment or whether a previously recognised impairment loss should be reversed.
If such indicators are found to exist, then detailed impairment testing is carried out.
Impairments where the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount and the reversal of previously recognised impairments are recognised in the income statement.
i Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Owner-occupied property is stated at revalued amounts, being fair value at the date of revaluation less subsequent accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Plant and equipment, principally computer equipment, motor vehicles, fixtures and furniture, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
In accordance with the exemptions permitted under IFRS 1, individual terms of property, plant and equipment held at 1 January 2004 were measured at fair value, which was deemed to be their cost at that date.
ii Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure is capitalised when it is measurable and will result in probable future economic benefits.
Expenditure incurred to replace a separate component of an item of owner occupied property, plant and equipment is capitalised to the cost of the item of owner occupied property, plant and equipment and the component replaced is derecognised.
All other expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense when incurred.
iii Revaluation of owner-occupied property Owner-occupied property is valued on the same basis as for investment property.
When an individual property is re-valued, any increase in its carrying amount as a result of the revaluation is transferred to a revaluation reserve, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same property previously recognised as an expense in the income statement.
When the value of an individual property is decreased as a result of a revaluation, the decrease is charged against any related credit balance in the revaluation reserve in respect of that property.
However, to the extent that it exceeds any surplus, it is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
iv Derecognition On derecognition of an owner-occupied property or item of plant and equipment, any gain or loss on disposal, determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, is included in the income statement in the period of the derecognition.
In the case of owner-occupied property, any surplus in the revaluation reserve in respect of the individual property is transferred directly to retained earnings.
v Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of owner-occupied property and plant and equipment that are accounted for separately.
In the case of owner-occupied property, on revaluation any accumulated depreciation at the date of the revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the property concerned and the net amount restated to the revalued amount.
Subsequent depreciation charges are adjusted based on the revalued amount for each property.
Any difference between the depreciation charge on the revalued amount and that which would have been charged under historic cost is transferred net of any related deferred tax, between the revaluation reserve and retained earnings as the property is utilised.
The maximum estimated useful lives are as follows: Computer equipment 5 years Computer software 3 years Motor vehicles 6 years Fixtures and furniture 10 years Leasehold property 20 years Freehold Property 50 years Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 102 1 Accounting policies continued i Property, plant and equipment continued vi Leases Operating leases Leases where the lessor retains the risks and rewards of ownership of the underlying asset are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged against income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Finance leases Lease agreements where the Group substantially accepts the risks and rewards of the ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant interest rate on the outstanding balance of the liability.
Finance lease obligations, net of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period according to the effective interest method.
Where applicable, assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
j Investment properties Investment property is real estate held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation.
It does not include real estate held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
Internal professional valuers perform valuations annually.
For practical reasons, valuations are carried out on a cyclical basis over a twelve-month period due to the large number of properties involved.
External valuations are obtained once every three years on a cyclical basis.
In the event of a material change in market conditions between the valuation date and balance sheet date an internal valuation is performed and adjustments made to reflect any material changes in value.
The valuation methodology adopted is dependent upon the nature of the property.
Income generating assets are valued using discounted cash flows.
Vacant land, land holdings and residential flats are valued according to sales of comparable properties.
Near vacant properties are valued at land value less the estimated cost of demolition.
Surpluses and deficits arising from changes in fair value are reflected in the income statement.
For properties reclassified during the year from property, plant and equipment to investment properties, any revaluation gain arising is initially recognised in the income statement to the extent of previously charged impairment losses.
Any residual excess is taken to the revaluation reserve.
Revaluation deficits are recognised in the revaluation reserve to the extent of previously recognised gains and any residual deficit is accounted for in the income statement.
Investment properties that are reclassified to owner occupied property are revalued at the date of transfer, with any difference being taken to the income statement.
k Finance costs Finance costs relate to the Groups borrowed funds that are directly controlled by, or managed on behalf of, Old Mutual plc.
These include interest payable, and gains and losses on revaluation of these funds and on those derivative instruments which are used to hedge these funds.
l Pension plans and retirement benefits Defined benefit and defined contribution schemes have been established for eligible employees of the Group with the assets held in separate trustee administered funds.
The projected unit credit method is used to determine the defined benefit obligations based on actuarial assessments, which incorporate not only the pension obligations known on the balance sheet date but also information relevant to their expected future development.
The discount rates used are determined based on the yields for investment grade corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
Actuarial gains or losses arising subsequent to 1 January 2004 are accounted for using the corridor method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the income statement over a period of time to the extent that they exceed 10 per cent of the greater of the fair value of the plan assets or the present value of the gross defined benefit obligations in the scheme.
Such actuarial gains and losses are recognised over the expected average remaining working lives of the employees participating in the scheme.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2004 were recognised in equity at that date.
Where the corridor calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised actuarial losses and past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Contributions in respect of defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 1 Accounting policies continued l Pension plans and retirement benefits continued Where applicable, Group companies make provision for post retirement medical and housing benefits for eligible employees.
Non-pension postretirement benefits are accounted for according to their nature, either as defined contribution or defined benefit plans.
The expected costs of post-retirement benefits that are defined benefit plans in nature are accounted for in the same manner as for defined benefit pension plans.
m Share-based payments i Equity-settled share-based payment transactions with employees The services received in an equity-settled transaction with employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
The fair value of those equity instruments is measured at grant date.
If the equity instruments granted vest immediately and the employee is not required to complete a specified period of service before becoming unconditionally entitled to those instruments, the services received are recognised in full on grant date in the income statement for the period, with a corresponding increase in equity.
Where the equity instruments do not vest until the employee has completed a specified period of service, it is assumed that the services rendered by the employee, as consideration for those equity instruments will be received in the future, during the vesting period.
These services are accounted for in the income statement as they are rendered during the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity.
ii Cash-settled share-based payment transactions with employees The services received in cash-settled transactions with employees and the liability to pay for those services, are recognised at fair value as the employee renders services.
Until the liability is settled, the fair value of the liability is re-measured at each reporting date and at the date of settlement, with any changes in fair value recognised in the income statement for the period.
iii Measurement of fair value of equity instruments granted The equity instruments granted by the Group are measured at fair value at measurement date using standard option pricing valuation models.
The valuation technique is consistent with generally acceptable valuation methodologies for pricing financial instruments, and incorporates all factors and assumptions that knowledgeable, willing market participants would consider in setting the price of the equity instruments.
As permitted under IFRS 1, the provisions of this accounting policy have not been applied to equity-settled grants made on or before 7 November 2002, or awards granted after that date but which had vested prior to 1 January 2005. n Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise balances with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition and which are highly liquid and subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
This includes: cash and balances with Central Banks, treasury bills and other eligible bills, amounts due from other banks and trading securities.
It excludes cash balances held in policyholder investment portfolios.
o Other provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will occur, and where a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the effect of discounting is material, provisions are discounted and the discount rate used is a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Specific policies: A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting the obligations under the contract: A provision for restructuring is recognised only if the Group has approved a detailed formal plan and raised a valid expectation, among those parties directly affected, that the plan will be carried out either by having begun implementation or by publicly announcing the plans main features: and No provision is made for future operating costs or losses.
p Critical accounting estimates and judgements Critical accounting estimates are those which involve the most complex or subjective judgements or assessments.
The areas of the Groups business that typically require such estimates are life insurance contract provisions, determination of the fair value for financial assets and liabilities, impairment charges, present values of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business, other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination, deferred acquisition costs, deferred taxes and the non consolidation of the Groups wholly owned mutual life insurance undertaking.
Insurance contract accounting is discussed in more detail in note 1 d, and further detail of the key assumptions made in determining insurance contract provisions is included in note 23.
Accounting for deferred acquisition cost assets is also discussed in note 1 d. Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 104 1 Accounting policies continued p Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are classified and accounted for in accordance with the policies set out in note 1 e. They are valued on the basis of listed market prices in so far as this is possible.
If prices are not readily determinable, fair value is based either on internal valuation models or management estimates of amounts that could be realised under current market conditions.
Fair values of certain financial instruments including over-the-counter OTC derivative instruments, are determined using pricing models that consider, among other factors, contractual and market prices, correlations, yield curves, credit spreads, and volatility factors.
Accounting for present values of acquired in-force insurance and investment contract business, together with other intangibles acquired as part of a business combination are discussed in note 1 g. Assets are subject to regular impairment reviews as required.
Impairments are measured at the difference between the cost or amortised cost of a particular asset and the current fair value or recoverable amount.
Impairments are recorded in the income statement in the period in which they occur.
The Groups policy in relation to impairment testing in respect of Goodwill is detailed in note 1 g. The policy in respect of investment securities and purchased loans and receivables is described in note 1 e. The accounting policy for deferred tax is detailed in note 1 f. The Group does not consolidate its wholly owned mutual life insurance undertaking, Skandia Liv.
For more information refer to the Subsidiary Undertakings and Special Purpose Entities Accounting Policy, note 1 c i. q Segment reporting The Groups primary segments are geographic and secondary segments are lines of business.
Where financial information is required for primary and secondary segments this is provided by way of a matrix format.
Segment information has been amended to facilitate the reporting of the enlarged operations of the Group following the acquisition of Skandia.
The Groups results are analysed across four geographic segments.
This segmentation is consistent with the Groups management structure.
The primary geographic segments are South Africa, United States, Europe and Other.
The Europe segment principally comprises the operations of Skandia in the UK, Nordic, Continental Europe and Latin America.
The Other segment comprises Skandias Asia Pacific operations, together with the pre-existing Old Mutual UK asset management and India operations.
The South Africa segment principally comprises the African life and general insurance and banking businesses.
The United States segment comprises the US life and US asset management businesses.
For segment reporting purposes, other shareholders income expenses, together with finance costs, are shown as Corporate.
Reallocations of certain comparative information have been made to include the Nedbank and OMI UK operations in the South Africa segment.
This geographic segmentation better reflects the management and customer bases of these businesses.
The Group continues to manage its business across four principal lines of business.
These are the bases of the Groups secondary segmentation.
The lines of business are long-term business, asset management, banking and general insurance.
Assets, liabilities, revenues or expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated between segments where there is a reasonable basis for doing so.
The Group accounts for inter-segment revenues and transfers as if the transactions were with third parties at current market prices.
r Treasury shares Upon consolidation, the balance sheet and income statement are adjusted for own shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOPs, policyholder funds of African life companies and those held in Black Economic Empowerment Trusts consolidated within the Groups financial statements.
Own shares are deducted from equity to eliminate the inter-company portion.
On purchase, the cost of the shares acquired is deducted from equity.
Subsequently, any gain or loss on the sale or cancellation of an entitys own equity instruments is recognised in equity.
Any net income in relation to own shares, both dividends received and unrealised losses on own shares are eliminated before stating the profit for the year.
Dividends paid in respect of these shares are also excluded when determining the retained profit for the year.
In calculating the basic earnings per share, the exclusion of the income in respect of own shares from the income statement requires the exclusion of treasury shares from the weighted average number of shares.
When calculating the diluted earnings per share, the number of shares included in the weighted average, reflects the potential issue in respect of the treasury shares.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 1 Accounting policies continued s Share capital Ordinary and preference share capital including perpetual preferred callable securities are classified as equity if they are non-redeemable by the shareholder and any dividends are discretionary and coupon payments are recognised as distributions within equity.
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Coupon payments thereon are recognised in the income statement as interest expense.
t Dividends Dividends payable to holders of equity instruments are recognised in the period in which they are authorised or approved.
Interim dividends payable to holders of the Groups ordinary share capital are authorised by the directors of the Parent Company, the final dividend typically requires shareholder approval.
u Previous pronouncements early adopted in the 2005 annual financial statements The Group previously elected to early adopt the provisions of the amendment to IAS 39, the fair value option, together with IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, in its 2005 annual financial statements.
v Amendments adopted in the 2006 annual financial statements The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations effective for the first time in the current accounting period, and which are relevant to the Group, have been adopted in these financial statements: IAS 19 Amendment, Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures effective 1 January 2006.
This amendment has resulted in increased disclosure in respect of the Groups post-retirement benefit schemes, details of which are shown in note 41.
No changes were made to the Groups accounting policy in respect of the treatment of actuarial gains and losses.
The Group continues to apply the corridor approach: IAS 39 Amendment for Hedges of Forecast Intra-group Transactions effective 1 January 2006.
The amendment permits the foreign currency risk of a highly probable intra-group forecast transaction to qualify as the hedged item in a cash flow hedge in consolidated financial statements, provided that the transaction is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity entering into that transaction and the foreign currency risk will affect consolidated financial statements.
The amendment also specifies that if the hedge of a forecast intra-group transaction qualifies for hedge accounting, any gain or loss that is recognised directly in equity in accordance with the hedge accounting rules in IAS 39 must be reclassified into the income statement in the same period or periods during which the foreign currency risk of the hedged transaction affects consolidated profit or loss.
The adoption of this amendment had no material impact on the annual financial statements: IFRS 4 Amendment for Financial Guarantee Contracts effective 1 January 2006.
This provides guidance to issuers of financial guarantee contracts.
If the issuer of the contract normally accounts for such a contact as a financial instrument liability, but has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and had accounted for them as such, then it may elect irrevocably to account for the contracts as financial instruments or insurance contracts.
The adoption of this amendment had no material impact on the annual financial statements: IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease effective 1 January 2006.
IFRIC 4 provides guidance on determining whether an arrangement that does not take the legal form of a lease contains a lease and should be accounted for in terms of IAS 17, Leases.
The adoption of this amendment had no material impact on the annual financial statements.
w Future amendments not early adopted in the 2006 annual financial statements The following standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations effective in future accounting periods, and which are relevant to the Group, have not been early adopted in these financial statements: IAS 1 amendment, Additional disclosures in relation to an entitys capital effective 1 January 2007 : IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective 1 January 2007.
IFRS 7 will supersede IAS 30, Disclosures in the Financial Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions and the disclosure requirements in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
In particular, IFRS 7 requires additional disclosure over and above that required by IAS 32 in respect of 1 The significance of financial instruments for an entitys financial position and performance, 2 The nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments: and 3 Capital objectives and policies: IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions effective 1 March 2007 was issued during the financial year.
IFRIC 11 clarifies the treatment required in group and subsidiary financial statements of certain share-based transactions entered into by holding companies or subsidiaries, principally in respect of accounting for entitlements to equity instruments of the holding company.
The principles set out in the interpretation will have no impact on the Groups existing accounting policy on share-based payments in the Parent Company financial statements.
The above amendments, which will be adopted in 2007, will predominantly require changes in disclosure, and are not expected to result in changes to the Groups recognition and measurement accounting policies.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 106 2 Foreign currencies The principal exchange rates used to translate the operating results, assets and liabilities of key foreign business segments to Sterling are: Income statement Balance sheet average rate closing rate 31 December 2006 Rand 12.4740 13.6746 US Dollars 1.8429 1.9569 Swedish Krona 13.5918 13.3924 Euro 1.4671 1.4837 1 February 2006 Swedish Krona 13.5347 31 December 2005 Rand 11.5812 10.8923 US Dollars 1.8195 1.7187 The 2006 income statement rate applied in respect of Skandia is an eleven month average rate.
3 Segment information i Basis of segmentation The Groups primary segmentation is on a geographic basis, the four geographic segments are based on the Groups management structure of the business: namely South Africa, United States, Europe and Other.
The Group operates across four principal lines of business: long-term business, asset management, banking and general insurance.
These are the secondary segments.
Income statement information, based on the Groups geographical and business segments, is presented in the form of a matrix that follows the same format as the consolidated income statement.
Analysis of gross earned premiums and funds under management are also presented.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 3 Segment information continued ii Income statement primary and secondary segment information South Africa Long-term Asset General Year ended 31 December 2006 business management Banking insurance Revenue Gross earned premiums 1,628 687 Outward reinsurance 33 89 Net earned premiums 1,595 598 Investment income net of investment losses 5,276 43 181 101 Banking interest and similar income 2,299 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 120 159 584 Other income 78 28 36 Share of associated undertakings profit after tax 6 6 Inter-segment revenues 96 53 8 Total revenue 7,171 283 3,114 699 Expenses Claims and benefits including change in insurance contract provisions 4,706 404 Reinsurance recoveries 21 29 Net claims and benefits incurred 4,685 375 Change in investment contract liabilities 1,160 Losses on loans and advances 120 Finance costs including interest and similar expenses Banking interest expense 1,386 Fees and commission expense, and other acquisition costs 165 4 85 125 Other operating and administrative expenses 536 118 967 58 Change in third party interest in consolidated funds Goodwill impairment 5 3 Amortisation of PVIF and other acquired intangibles Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 17 Inter-segment expenses 65 64 23 6 Total expenses 6,611 186 2,569 567 Profit before tax 560 97 545 132 Adjusting items 24 11 50 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 125 Adjusted operating profit 411 97 534 82 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 108 3 Segment information continued ii Income statement primary and secondary segment information year ended 31 December 2006 continued United States Europe Other Group m Inter-segment  Asset revenue business management business management Banking management Corporate expense Total 2,128 270 4,713 81 64 267 2,047 206 4,446 736 4 3,722 6 3 3 364 10,439 142 2,441 405 600 259 30 105 2,262 31 26 3 8 3 123 10 324 6 6 14 180 39 33 1 11 435 2,783 454 4,734 301 197 106 137 61 19,918 2,708 181 7,999 164 31 245 2,544 150 7,754 3,495 4,655 3 123 91 91 75 1,461 34 7 150 56 6 22 60 714 77 321 413 118 71 64 47 36 2,826 278 278 8 22 349 7 1 379 68 85 15 89 130 31 4 8 435 2,692 260 4,646 311 187 90 146 61 18,204 91 194 88 10 10 16 9 1,714 33 67 247 9 1 154 16 114 239 124 127 221 1 11 16 163 1,459 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 3 Segment information continued ii Income statement primary and secondary segment information continued South Africa Long-term Asset General Year ended 31 December 2005 business management Banking insurance Revenue Gross earned premiums 1,673 690 Outward reinsurance 32 95 Net earned premiums 1,641 595 Investment income net of investment losses 5,468 47 171 132 Banking interest and similar income 2,018 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 117 123 556 Other income 74 28 57 Share of associated undertakings profit after tax 7 10 Inter-segment revenues 87 44 3 Total revenue 7,394 242 2,815 727 Expenses Claims and benefits including change in insurance contract provisions 4,842 413 Reinsurance recoveries 30 50 Net claims and benefits incurred 4,812 363 Change in investment contract liabilities 1,202 Losses on loans and advances 103 Finance costs including interest and similar expenses Banking interest expense 1,254 Fees and commission expense, and other acquisition costs 139 1 78 126 Other operating and administrative expenses 449 99 973 68 Change in third party interest in consolidated funds Goodwill impairment 5 Amortisation of PVIF and other acquired intangibles Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 64 Inter-segment expenses 51 57 16 Total expenses 6,653 157 2,360 562 Profit before tax for the financial year 741 85 455 165 Adjusting items 142 34 63 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 124 Adjusted operating profit 475 85 421 102 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 110 3 Segment information continued ii Income statement primary and secondary segment information year ended 31 December 2005 continued United States Europe Other Group m Inter-segment  Asset revenue business management business management Banking management Corporate expense Total 2,110 4,473 70 197 2,040 4,276 565 2 2 3 17 162 6,569 2,018 406 14 79 21 1,274 2 34 9 24 9 215 17 1 12 3 3 9 162 2,604 454 28 85 50 30 14,369 2,540 7,795 146 226 2,394 7,569 1,202 103 40 40 1,254 12 10 4 13 6 389 69 326 13 51 61 46 2,155 80 80 5 24 24 6 58 12 12 1 13 162 2,511 342 29 65 114 30 12,763 93 112 1 20 64 1,606 13 6 2 218 3 127 106 118 4 20 62 1,261 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued iii Gross earned premiums m South United Year ended 31 December 2006 Africa States Europe Other Total Long-term business insurance contracts 1,183 2,128 270 3,581 Long-term business investment contracts with discretionary participation features 445 445 Total long-term business 1,628 2,128 270 4,026 General insurance 687 687 Gross earned premiums 2,315 2,128 270 4,713 Long-term business other investment contracts recognised as deposits 1,737 216 7,645 9,598 m South United Year ended 31 December 2005 Africa States Europe Other Total Long-term business insurance contracts 1,191 2,110 3,301 Long-term business investment contracts with discretionary participation features 482 482 Total long-term business 1,673 2,110 3,783 General insurance 690 690 Gross earned premiums 2.363 2,110 4,473 Long-term business other investment contracts recognised as deposits 1,314 341 1,655 iv Funds under management m South United At 31 December 2006 Africa States Europe Other Total Long-term business policyholder funds 20,817 11,750 38,233 1,219 72,019 Unit trusts and mutual funds 5,255 10,768 5,530 21,553 Third party client funds 12,950 121,634 1,926 5,013 141,523 Total client funds under management 39,022 133,384 50,927 11,762 235,095 Shareholder funds 2,072 925 1,291 50 4,338 Total funds under management 41,094 134,309 52,218 11,812 239,433 m South United At 31 December 2005 Africa States Europe Other Total Long-term business policyholder funds 23,644 12,498 392 1,359 37,893 Unit trusts and mutual funds 4,343 2,013 6,356 Third party client funds 12,811 119,168 1,114 1,404 134,497 Total client funds under management 40,798 131,666 1,506 4,776 178,746 Shareholder funds 2,536 659 225 3,420 Total funds under management 43,334 132,325 1,506 5,001 182,166 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 112 3 Segment information continued v Balance sheet information m Inter-segment South United Unallocated assets At 31 December 2006 Africa States Europe Otherto segment liabilities Total Assets Long-term business 26,142 15,370 48,485 2,199 87,798 Asset management 1,658 1,394 444 401 433 3,464 Banking 30,751 4,325 14 35,062 General insurance 616 32 584 Other shareholders assets 991 611 263 571 852 1,584 Investments in associated undertakings 70 13 83 Consolidated total assets 60,228 16,764 53,865 677 571 3,530 128,575 Liabilities Long-term business 25,656 14,113 44,674 324 84,119 Asset management 1,411 369 440 79 1,062 1,237 Banking 28,708 4,046 509 32,245 General insurance 354 354 Other shareholders liabilities 397 579 65 2,451 1,635 1,857 Consolidated total liabilities 56,526 14,482 49,739 144 2,451 3,530 119,812 Net assets Long-term business 724 1,257 3,811 1,875 3,917 Asset management 247 1,025 4 322 629 2,227 Banking 2,043 279 495 2,817 General insurance 262 32 230 Other shareholders net assets 594 171 198 938 783 808 Investments in associated undertakings 70 13 83 3,940 2,282 4,265 533 938 10,082 Debt 238 139 942 1,319 Consolidated net assets 3,702 2,282 4,126 533 1,880 8,763 The net assets of South African businesses are stated after eliminating investments in Group equity and debt instruments of 560 million 2005: 570 million held in policyholder funds.
These include investments in the Companys ordinary shares and subordinated liabilities and preferred securities issued by the Groups banking subsidiary Nedbank Limited.
All South Africa debt relates to long-term business.
All other debt relates to other sharehplders net assets.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 3 Segment information continued v Balance sheet information continued m Inter-segment South United Unallocated assets At 31 December 2005 Africa States Europe Otherto segment liabilities Total Assets Long-term business 29,413 13,870 200 905 42,578 Asset management 1,309 1,346 1,126 684 3,097 Banking 31,925 31,925 General insurance 911 911 Other shareholders assets 1,006 241 610 113 1,970 Investments in associated undertakings 93 93 Consolidated total assets 64,657 15,216 441 1,126 610 1,476 80,574 Liabilities Long-term business 28,923 12,577 200 44 41,656 Asset management 1,073 281 481 263 1,572 Banking 29,646 16 29,630 General insurance 447 447 Other shareholders liabilities 464 1,539 1,153 850 Consolidated total liabilities 60,553 12,858 200 481 1,539 1,476 74,155 Net assets Long-term business 816 1,293 861 1,248 Asset management 236 1,065 645 421 1,525 Banking 2,279 16 2,295 General insurance 464 464 Other shareholders net assets 542 241 409 1,266 1,640 Investments in associated undertakings 93 93 4,430 2,358 241 645 409 7,265 Debt 326 520 846 Consolidated net assets 4,104 2,358 241 645 929 6,419 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 114 4 Operating profit adjusting items i Summary of adjusting items In determining the adjusted operating profit of the Group adjustments are made to profit before tax to reflect the directors view of the underlying long-term performance of the Group.
These items are summarised below: m South United Year ended 31 December 2006 Notes Africa States Europe Other Total Income expense Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 4 ii 8 22 256 286 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 4 iii 17 68 85 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 4 iv 339 12 1 326 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds 4 v 148 148 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 4 vii 39 39 Closure of unclaimed shares trusts 4 viii 115 115 Total adjusting items 85 34 257 154 16 Tax on adjusting items 5 iii 47 18 46 4 13 Minority interest in adjusting items 6 iii 10 7 17 Total adjusting items after tax and minority interests 48 52 204 150 46 m South United Year ended 31 December 2005 Notes Africa States Europe Other Total Income expense Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 4 ii 5 17 22 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 4 iii 64 6 58 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 4 iv 359 4 363 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds 4 v 109 109 Initial costs of Black Economic Empowerment schemes 4 vi 70 2 72 Total adjusting items 239 19 2 218 Tax on adjusting items 5 iii 49 6 43 Minority interest in adjusting items 6 iii 18 18 Total adjusting items after tax and minority interests 172 13 2 157 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 4 Operating profit adjusting items continued ii Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting In applying acquisition accounting in accordance with IFRS deferred acquisition costs and revenue are not recognised.
These are reversed in the acquisition balance sheet and replaced by goodwill, other intangible assets and the value of the acquired present value of in-force business acquired PVIF.
In determining its adjusted operating profit the Group recognises deferred revenue and acquisition costs in relation to policies sold by acquired businesses pre-acquisition, and excludes the impairment of goodwill and the amortisation of acquired other intangibles and acquired PVIF.
The amortisation of deferred costs and revenue for the Skandia businesses for the period since acquisition was 101 million.
The amortisation of acquired PVIF for the Skandia businesses was 293 million over the same period.
Compared to the prior year, the exclusion of PVIF amortisation is a change in methodology in respect of calculating the adjusted operating profit of the Groups long-term business in the United States.
Comparative information has been restated accordingly.
Goodwill impairment and acquisition accounting adjustments to adjusted operating profit are summarised below: m South United Year ended December 2006 Africa States Europe Other Total Amortisation of acquired PVIF Long-term business 22 293 315 Amortisation of acquired deferred costs and revenue Long-term business 103 103 Asset management 2 2 Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets Long-term business 56 56 Asset management 7 7 Banking 1 1 Goodwill impairment Banking 5 5 General insurance 3 3 8 22 256 286 m South United Year ended December 2005 Africa States Europe Other Total Amortisation of PVIF Long-term business 17 17 Goodwill impairment General insurance 5 5 5 17 22 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 116 4 Operating profit adjusting items continued iii Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments During 2006, the US asset management business disposed of its interests in affiliate asset managers resulting in a profit on disposal of 68 million.
During 2006, the Groups South African banking subsidiary disposed of its remaining investment in an IT finance solutions business resulting in a profit on disposal of 17 million.
This followed the disposal of the first part of its strategic investment in this business in 2005, which recognised a profit of 68 million.
In 2005 the South Africa banking business made other small disposals and write-offs of subsidiaries that recognised losses of 4 million.
m South United Year ended 31 December 2006 Africa States Europe Other Total Asset management 68 68 Banking 17 17 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments before tax 17 68 85 m South United Year ended 31 December 2005 Africa States Europe Other Total Asset management 6 6 Banking 64 64 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments before tax 64 6 58 iv Long-term investment return Profit before tax includes actual investment returns earned on the shareholder assets of the Group.
Adjusted operating profit is stated after recalculating shareholder asset investment returns based on a long-term investment return rate.
The difference between the actual and the long-term investment returns are short-term fluctuations in investment return.
Long-term rates of return are based on achieved real rates of return appropriate to the underlying asset base, adjusted for current inflation expectations and consensus economic investment forecasts, and are reviewed frequently, usually annually, for appropriateness.
These rates of return have been selected with a view to ensuring that returns credited to adjusted operating profit are consistent with the actual returns expected to be earned over the long-term.
For South Africa long-term business, the return is applied to an average value of investible shareholders assets, adjusted for net fund flows.
For the Groups South Africa general insurance business, the return is an average value of the investible assets supporting shareholders funds and insurance liabilities, adjusted for net fund flows.
For US and Europe long-term businesses, the return is applied to average investible assets.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Long-term investment rates 2006 2005 South Africa long-term business weighted average return 11.3% 11.1% South Africa general insurance weighted average return 11.1% 11.1% Equities 13.0% 13.0% Cash and other investible assets Rand denominated 9.0% 9.0% Cash and other investible assets other currencies 6.0% 6.0% United States weighted average 5.9% 5.9% Europe long-term business weighted average 4.6% n a Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 4 Operating profit adjusting items continued iv Long-term investment return continued Analysis of short-term fluctuations in investment return m South United Year ended 31 December 2006 Africa States Europe Total Long-term business Actual investment return attributable to shareholders 436 620 3 1,059 Less: long-term investment return 150 632 4 786 286 12 1 273 General insurance business Actual investment return attributable to shareholders 101 101 Less: long-term investment return 48 48 53 53 Total short-term fluctuations in investment return 339 12 1 326 The actual investment return attributable to shareholders for the US long-term business reflects total investment income, as a distinction is not drawn between shareholder and policyholder funds.
m South United Year ended 31 December 2005 Africa States Europe Total Long-term business Actual investment return attributable to shareholders 411 587 998 Less: long-term investment return 132 583 715 279 4 283 General insurance business Actual investment return attributable to shareholders 133 133 Less: long-term investment return 53 53 80 80 Total short-term fluctuations in investment return 359 4 363 v Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instrument held in life funds Adjusted operating profit includes investment returns on policyholder investments in Group equity and debt instruments by the Groups life funds.
These include investments in the Companys ordinary shares, and the subordinated liabilities and ordinary securities of the Groups South Africa banking subsidiary.
These investment returns are eliminated within the consolidated income statement in arriving at profit before tax, but are included in adjusted operating profit.
In 2006 the total investment return attributable to such items was 148 million 2005: 109 million.
vi Initial costs of Black Economic Empowerment schemes In 2005, the Group implemented Black Economic Empowerment schemes, which will ultimately increase black shareholdings in its South African businesses.
Implementation of these schemes occurred in August 2005 and resulted in the issue of new ordinary shares in Old Mutual plc and its subsidiaries to various share trusts for the benefit of black employees within the Group and to a number of black controlled entities beneficially owned by black clients or distributors, black community groups and black business partners in South Africa.
Upfront costs of 72 million incurred in the implementation of these schemes during 2005 were excluded from adjusted operating profit.
These consisted of share-based payment charges in accordance with IFRS 2, administration costs associated with implementation and running of the schemes and performance fees accrued in respect of the black business partners.
The ongoing costs of these schemes are now included within the adjusted operating profit of the South African businesses.
vii Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities Dividends declared to the holders of the Groups perpetual preferred callable securities were 39 million in the year ended 31 December 2006.
These are recognised in finance costs on an accruals basis for the purpose of determining adjusted operating profit.
In the IFRS financial statements this cost is recognised in equity.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 118 4 Operating profit adjusting items continued viii Closure of unclaimed shares trusts On 31 May 2006 Old Mutual announced that the Old Mutual South Africa Unclaimed Shares Trust UST together with similar trusts set up in Namibia, Zimbabwe, Malawi and Bermuda, would be closed at the end of August 2006.
It has been determined that the gross proceeds from the sale of unclaimed shares by these trusts will be paid to Old Mutual plc.
Under the terms of the deeds establishing the USTs, the trustees of the USTs were required, following their termination, to liquidate the residual assets of the USTs and to distribute them in accordance with the directions given by Old Mutual plc.
Following discussions with the South African National Treasury, the Company announced on 30 January 2007 that it intended, subject to shareholders approval at the Companys Annual General meeting in May 2007, to use substantially all of the proceeds realised to discharge late claims in cash for a further period of three years to 31 August 2009, to fund good causes in the jurisdictions of the trust concerned or to enhance benefits for certain specific small policyholders of the Groups South African and Namibian life businesses.
The impact of the closure of these trusts has been reflected in the 2006 Group Financial Statements.
Income of 115 million has been recognised by Old Mutual plc.
Expenses of 115 million have been recognised by the Groups South Africa long-term business.
The income relates to the anticipated receipt of sales proceeds from the trusts.
The expenses relate to anticipated cost of the current proposals to discharge the Groups obligations following the closure of the trusts.
This item has no impact on the profit before tax or adjusted operating profit of the Group, and has been excluded from the adjusted operating profit of Old Mutual plc and the Groups South Africa long-term business.
5 Income tax expense i Analysis of total income tax expense m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Current tax United Kingdom tax Corporation tax 61 50 Double tax relief 26 45 Overseas tax South Africa 282 256 United States 16 Europe 54 1 Secondary Tax on Companies STC 36 17 Prior year adjustments 3 27 Total current tax 420 306 Deferred tax Origination of temporary differences 203 201 Changes in tax rates bases 6 Write down recognition of deferred tax assets 2 29 Total deferred tax 201 178 Total income tax expense 621 484 ii Reconciliation of total income tax expense m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Profit before tax 1,714 1,606 Tax at standard rate of 30% 2005: 30% 514 482 Different tax rate or basis on overseas operations 21 4 Untaxed and low taxed income 141 142 Disallowable expenses 61 34 Net movement on deferred tax assets not recognised 19 9 STC 37 21 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 173 89 Other 21 5 Total income tax expense 621 484 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 5 Income tax expense continued iii Income tax on adjusted operating profit m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Income tax expense 621 484 Tax on adjusting items Impact of acquisition accounting 52 6 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 8 1 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 43 55 Initial costs of Black Economic Empowerment schemes 5 Income tax attributable to policyholders returns 239 127 Tax on dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities recognised in equity 4 Income tax on adjusted operating profit 395 314 6 Minority interests Income statement i Minority interests ordinary shares The minority interest charge to profit for the financial year has been calculated on the basis of the Groups effective ownership of the subsidiaries in which it does not own 100 per cent of the ordinary equity.
The principal subsidiaries where a minority exists are the Groups banking and general insurance businesses in South Africa and its newly acquired long-term, asset management and banking businesses in Europe.
For the year ended 31 December 2006 the minority interest attributable to ordinary shares was 207 million 2005: 203 million.
ii Minority interests preferred securities m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 R2,000 million non-cumulative preference shares 13 14 R792 million non-cumulative preference shares 5 6 US$750 million cumulative preferred securities 32 32 Minority interest preferred securities 50 52 iii Minority interests adjusted operating profit The following table reconciles minority interests share of profit for the financial year to minority interests share of adjusted operating profit: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Reconciliation of minority interests share of profit for the financial year 2006 2005 The minority interest charge is analysed as follows: Minority interest ordinary shares 207 203 Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 11 1 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 7 27 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 9 14 Initial costs of Black Economic Empowerment schemes 13 Income attributable to Black Economic Empowerment trusts of listed subsidiaries 22 9 Minority interest share of adjusted operating profit 224 185 The Group uses revised weighted average effective ownership interests when calculating the minority interest applicable to the adjusted operating profit of its South Africa banking and general insurance businesses.
This reflects the legal ownership of these businesses following the implementation for Black Economic Empowerment BEE schemes in 2005.
In accordance with IFRS accounting rules the shares issued for BEE purposes are deemed to be, in substance, options.
Therefore the effective ownership interest reflected in arriving at profit after tax in the consolidated income statement is lower than that applied in arriving at adjusted operating profit after tax.
In 2006 the increase in adjusted operating profit attributable to minority interests as a result of this was 22 million 2005: 9 million.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 120 7 Earnings and earnings per share i Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding own shares held in policyholder funds, ESOP trusts, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and other related undertakings.
m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 836 867 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 35 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders 801 867 Total dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities of 39 million in 2006 are stated net of tax credits of 4 million.
Millions Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 5,339 3,951 Shares held in charitable foundations 19 19 Shares held in ESOP trusts 98 92 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 5,222 3,840 Shares held in life funds 292 290 Shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts 225 94 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,705 3,456 Basic earnings per ordinary share pence 17.0 25.1 Diluted earnings per share recognises the dilutive impact of share options held in ESOP trusts and Black Economic Empowerment trusts which are currently in the money in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares, as if the relevant shares were in issue for the full period.
Millions Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 4,705 3,456 Adjustments for share options held by ESOP trusts 62 20 Adjustments for shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts 225 94 4,992 3,570 Diluted earnings per ordinary share pence 16.1 24.3 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 7 Earnings and earnings per share continued ii Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share is determined based on adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit represents the directors view of the underlying performance of the Group.
For long-term and general insurance business adjusted operating profit is based on a long-term investment return, includes investment returns on life funds investments in Group equity and debt instruments and is stated net of income tax attributable to policyholder returns.
For all businesses, adjusted operating profit excludes goodwill impairment, the impact of acquisition accounting, initial costs of Black Economic Empowerment schemes, the impact of closure of unclaimed shares trusts, profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments, dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities and income expense from closure of unclaimed shares trusts.
The reconciliation of profit for the financial year to adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders is as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Notes 2006 2005 Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 836 867 Adjusting items 4 i 16 218 Tax on adjusting items 5 iii 13 43 Minority interest on adjusting items 6 iii 17 18 Adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders 790 710 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares millions 5,222 3,840 Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share pence 15.1 18.5 8 Investment income net of investment losses m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Interest income and similar income Finance lease and instalment debtors 1 1 Bills and acceptances 12 7 Term loans and other 48 11 Cash and short-term funds held 119 30 Investment securities 1,452 1,267 1,632 1,316 Dividend income Financial assets fair valued through income statement 433 398 Other financial instruments 66 78 499 476 Rental income on investment properties 66 69 Unrealised gains losses Foreign currency trading 55 59 Investment property 140 192 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 1,458 2,379 Other investments 1,820 125 3,473 2,755 Realised gains losses Foreign currency trading 18 40 Investment securities 4 7 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 2,845 1,848 Other investments 1,964 64 4,795 1,959 Loss on foreign exchange non-trading 26 6 Total investment income net of investment losses 10,439 6,569 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 122 9 Banking interest and similar income m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Interest income and similar income Mortgage loans 1,121 860 Finance lease and instalment debtors 350 285 Bills and acceptances 10 23 Term loans and other 625 548 Customer overdrafts 100 97 Cash and short-term funds held 91 29 Investment securities 130 164 2,427 2,006 Dividend income Financial assets fair valued through income statement 14 12 Total banking interest and similar income 2,441 2,018 10 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities m Long-term Asset business management Banking Total Year ended 31 December 2006 Fee and commission income 853 881 617 2,351 Transaction and performance fees 86 86 Change in deferred revenue 133 38 4 175 720 929 613 2,262 Year ended 31 December 2005 Fee and commission income 108 529 563 1,200 Transaction and performance fees 86 86 Change in deferred revenue 9 14 7 12 117 601 556 1,274 11 Finance costs including interest and similar expenses m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Interest payable 76 44 Gain on revaluation of borrowed funds 7 Loss on revaluation of derivative assets liabilities 16 Reserve movements relating to debt and derivative instruments 6 4 Total finance costs including interest and similar expenses 91 40 12 Banking interest expense m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Loan notes 10 24 Banks and customers 1,149 935 Subordinated debt liabilities 67 67 Debt securities in issue 228 228 Other interest expense 7 Total banking interest expense 1,461 1,254 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 13 Fees and commission expense, and other acquisition costs m Long-term Asset business management Banking Total Year ended 31 December 2006 Fees and commission expense 955 194 91 1,240 Changes in deferred acquisition costs 558 46 604 Other acquisition costs 78 78 475 148 91 714 Year ended 31 December 2005 Fees and commission expense 518 46 78 642 Changes in deferred acquisition costs 301 17 318 Other acquisition costs 64 1 65 281 30 78 389 14 Other operating and administrative expenses i Other operating and administrative expenses m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Notes 2006 2005 Staff costs 14 ii 1,442 1,100 Depreciation 68 61 Software costs 7 1 Operating lease rentals Banking 47 48 Operating lease rentals Non-banking 38 26 Amortisation of intangibles 414 69 Impairment of goodwill 14 8 ii Staff costs m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Staff costs Wages and salaries 946 705 Social security costs 53 13 Retirement obligations Defined contribution plans 38 18 Defined benefit plans 17 Other retirement benefits 4 5 Bonus and incentive remuneration 292 269 Share-based payments 57 51 Termination benefits 1 1 Long-term employee benefits 10 2 Other 41 19 1,442 1,100 Number The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was: Long-term business 21,713 14,850 Banking 23,581 22,188 Asset management 5,028 2,758 General insurance 2,709 3,051 Other 121 103 53,152 42,950 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 124 14 Other operating and administrative expenses continued iii Fees to Groups auditors Included in other operating expenses are fees paid to the Groups auditors.
These can be categorised as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Fees for audit services Group 0.9 0.5 Subsidiaries 9.2 5.9 Pension schemes 0.1 Total audit fees 10.2 6.4 Fees for non-audit services Taxation 0.6 0.6 Information technology 0.1 Valuation and actuarial 0.2 Corporate finance transactions 0.2 0.5 Any other services provided by auditors 2.3 3.5 Total non-audit services 3.4 4.6 Total Group auditors remuneration 13.6 11.0 In addition to the above, fees of 2.9 million 2005: 2.8 million were payable to other auditors in respect of joint audit arrangements of Nedbank, the Groups banking subsidiary in South Africa.
15 Acquisition of subsidiaries On 26 January 2006, the Companys offer for  Skandia publ Skandia was declared unconditional.
Settlement of acceptances received up to that date was effective on 3 February 2006, which resulted in the Company obtaining 72.1 per cent of Skandia.
The offer was extended and further acceptances were received and settled on 17 February 2006 17.4 per cent and on 23 March 2006 8.7 per cent.
Consequently, following further permitted open market purchases, the Groups interest in Skandia was 98.8 per cent at 31 December 2006.
The Company has instigated a compulsory purchase of the remaining Skandia shares.
The compulsory purchase proceedings are in progress.
Access to the minority shares is anticipated to be completed during 2007.
Under the terms of the offer, consideration was paid to Skandia shareholders by way of a combination of cash and shares in Old Mutual plc.
To date, cash consideration of 1,253 million has been paid by the Company and the Company has issued 1,389 million Old Mutual plc shares, with a fair value of 2,670 million.
The results of Skandia have been included in these financial statements of the Group from 1 February 2006.
Total revenue and profit before tax for the eleven months ended 31 December 2006 were 5,148 million and 89 million, respectively.
The total revenue and profit before tax for the twelve months ended 31 December 2006 were 5,309 million and 97 million, respectively.
The fair value of the consideration paid for the Groups 98.8 per cent holding in Skandia is as follows: m Year ended 31 December 2006 Cash paid 1,253 Fair value of 1,389 million Old Mutual plc shares issued, based on the published prices at applicable rates of exchange 2,670 Costs of acquisition 72 Total consideration 3,995 The acquisition of Skandia in exchange for the Groups ordinary shares means that merger relief is applicable under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985.
As a result during the year 2,532 million has been credited to the merger reserve within the Companys balance sheet.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 15 Acquisition of subsidiaries continued The fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired was as follows: m Fair value and Fair value as accounting reported at policy Acquired 31 December Book value adjustments intangibles 2006 Assets Intangible assets 52 41 3,036 3,047 Deferred acquisition costs DAC 1,422 1,422 Deferred tax assets 40 5 35 Other assets 39,366 270 39,096 Total assets 40,880 1,738 3,036 42,178 Liabilities Deferred revenue liability DRL 1,214 1,214 Provisions 89 99 188 Contingent liabilities 63 63 Deferred tax liabilities 234 109 500 625 Other liabilities 38,426 18 38,408 Total liabilities 39,963 1,179 500 39,284 Net assets acquired 917 559 2,536 2,894 Less: Minority share of net assets acquired 29 Residual goodwill 1,130 Total consideration 3,995 The fair value of the net assets and acquired intangibles has been updated following revisions to original estimates in the fourth quarter of 2006.
The calculation of residual goodwill will be finalised in 2007.
Separate intangible assets have been identified and valued at 3,036 million, using estimated post-tax cash flows and post-tax discount rates.
These intangibles represent the value of the PVIF, the values of the Skandia distribution network, customer relationships in respect of non-life businesses, and the Skandia brand.
No other intangibles were identified which were capable of reliable measurement.
A deferred tax liability of 500 million has been provided for in respect of these intangible assets, based on the tax rates applicable in the various territories, on the grounds that the assets have no tax base, thereby creating temporary differences on which deferred tax must be provided.
The useful economic lives of the PVIF and other intangibles have been assessed, taking into account factors such as the usage of the asset, life cycles, obsolescence, maintenance, and period of control over the asset.
PVIF and other intangible assets will be amortised over a period of between 10 and 20 years.
Related deferred tax liabilities will be amortised in line with the amortisation of the particular intangible asset.
Other fair value adjustments principally comprise the derecognition of DAC, DRL and related balances including deferred tax impacts thereon on the basis that these items have no fair value at acquisition.
These items are included in the calculation of the PVIF.
The remaining fair value and accounting policy adjustments relate to the derecognition of goodwill shown in Skandias balance sheet, recognition at fair value of certain assets and liabilities previously recorded at amortised cost in Skandias balance sheet, and other adjustments to reflect up to date estimates in respect of certain litigation issues and tax, including the recognition of certain contingencies.
Of the fair value and accounting policy adjustments shown above, 147 million relates to reductions in net assets determined in the final quarter of 2006 on the basis of new information that has become available subsequent to the publication of the Group interim financial statements to 30 June 2006.
The residual goodwill of 1,130 million represents the value of the Skandia workforce and synergies, both from increased revenues and reduced costs which are expected to arise across the Skandia business and within our UK life assurance operations as a result of the acquisition.
It also represents the value of new business growth and other customer intangible assets which cannot be reliably measured.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 126 16 Goodwill and other intangible assets m Present value of acquired in-force Software Other Goodwill business development costs intangible assets Total At 31 December 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 Cost Balance at beginning of the year 1,451 1,215 288 260 355 299 2,094 1,774 Acquisitions through business combinations 1,338 142 2,289 38 755 4,420 142 Additions 56 40 2 58 40 Foreign exchange and other movements 220 99 34 28 72 28 1 325 155 Disposals or retirements 10 5 19 12 29 17 Balance at end of the year 2,559 1,451 2,543 288 358 355 758 6,218 2,094 Amortisation and impairment losses Balance at beginning of the year 161 156 159 171 204 151 524 478 Amortisation charge for the year 303 24 46 45 65 414 69 Impairment losses charged for the year 8 5 6 3 14 8 Foreign exchange and other movements 39 31 36 21 17 3 88 19 Disposals or retirements 13 12 13 12 Balance at end of the year 130 161 431 159 222 204 68 851 524 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 1,290 1,059 129 89 151 148 1,570 1,296 Balance at end of the year 2,429 1,290 2,112 129 136 151 690 5,367 1,570 Other intangible assets above comprise distribution channels, customer relationships and brands associated with the Skandia business acquired during the year.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions through business combinations principally comprises 1,130 million with respect to the Skandia acquisition, 121 million with respect to various acquisitions by the Groups United States asset management business, 55 million relating to the purchase of additional interests in the Groups South Africa banking business, 32 million relating to various other small acquisitions.
Goodwill impairment charge The goodwill impairment charge for the year ended 31 December 2006 was 8 million 2005: 5 million.
The impairment charge arose in South Africa as a result of a decrease in the projected cash flows.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition is reviewed for each cash generating unit CGU and the recoverable amounts are determined from value in use or net selling price calculations.
An impairment to goodwill is made where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value.
The key assumptions used in the determination of the recoverable amount are outlined below by segment: Europe The CGUs are the geographical areas, UK, Nordic and ELAM.
In determining the total recoverable amount for each CGU the following assumptions are used: Long-term business The recoverable amount of the long-term business is determined using embedded value methodology plus a multiple of the value of new business VNB.
Embedded value represents the shareholders interest in the long-term business and is calculated in accordance with the European Embedded Value EEV principles.
The VNB represents the present value of future profits from new business.
The EEV and VNB are actuarially determined, based on business plans approved by management covering a three year period.
Projections beyond that date have been extrapolated using a conservative inflation based growth assumption.
The methodology and significant assumptions underlying the determination of EEV and VNB are disclosed in the supplementary information shown on pages 210 and 217 to 221.
The valuation includes the expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
The valuation multiple applied to the VNB has been determined by reference to recent market multiples applied in similar transactions of similar businesses.
Other business The asset management business recoverable amount has been determined under the value-in-use methodology, based on projected cash flows.
The cash flows are based on the business plans approved by management for the next three years and extrapolated using the same inflation based growth rate as under EEV.
The assumptions underlying the business plan include market share, sales growth, investment performance and expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
The risk free rates of return are the same as in the EEV calculations.
The discount rate applied is based on the cost of equity.
The equity market risk premium is determined by references to market valuation models.
The banking business has been valued based on a multiple of earnings, with comparison to recent similar transactions and market valuations.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 16 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued North America Goodwill attributable to North America relates to the acquisition of the US Life business and US Asset management.
As for Europe, the recoverable amount of the long-term business is determined as the EEV plus a multiple of the value of new business.
The methodology and assumptions underlying the EEV and VNB are disclosed on pages 210 and 217 to 221.
The multiples are determined by reference to recent market transactions and valuation models.
The recoverable amount of the asset management business is determined under the value in use methodology.
Projected cash flows are based on three year business plans approved by management, with extrapolation for two further years using a six per cent growth rate.
The discount rate applied to these projected future cash flows is 14 per cent.
Africa The goodwill for South Africa primarily relates to the banking business.
The recoverable amount for the banking business is determined based on the value-in-use method.
The calculation uses cash flow projections from business plans for the forthcoming three years which are then extrapolated for two further years.
Extrapolation is achieved using a long-term growth rate which varies between three and five per cent.
The risk adjusted discount rate is approximately 12.5 per cent.
Goodwill by cash generating unit The following table is an analysis of the goodwill, net of amortisation and impairment losses by principal cash generating units: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 US Asset Management 923 934 US Life 58 66 African banking 233 233 UK 587 Nordic region 370 Europe and Latin America 173 Other 85 57 Goodwill, net of amortisation and impairment losses 2,429 1,290 Goodwill and other intangible assets by segment Total goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortisation and impairment losses of 5,367 million 2005: 1,570 million is attributable to South Africa 384 million 2005: 404 million, United States 1,092 million 2005: 1,119 million, Europe 3,826 million 2005: nil and other 65 million 2005: 47 million.
Total amortisation of 414 million 2005: 69 million is attributable to South Africa 42 million 2005: 43 million, United States 14 million 2005: 26 million, Europe 358 million 2005: nil.
Impairment losses of 14 million 2005: 8 million relates to South Africa.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 128 17 Investments in associated undertakings i Investments in associated undertakings The Groups investments in associated undertakings accounted for under the equity method are as follows: m Carrying Group share Associated undertakings Country of operation % interest held value of profit loss At 31 December 2006 Acturis Ltd United Kingdom 53% 1 Clident No.
638 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 12 G & C Shelf 31 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 40% 6 Kimberley Clark Republic of South Africa 50% 19 2 Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd India 26% 12 6 Masingita Property Investment Holdings Republic of South Africa 35% 2 Visigro Investments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 30% 2 Whirlprops 33 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 4 3 SA Retail Properties Ltd Republic of South Africa 17% 4 All other associated undertakings 21 7 83 6 All of the above investments in associated undertakings are unlisted.
All investments in associated undertakings are equity accounted using financial information as at 31 December 2006.
The Groups holding in Acturis Ltd is non-voting preference shares and the Group does not have board control in Kimberley Clark.
Consequently as the Group does not have control in either Acturis Ltd nor Kimberley Clark these companies have not been consolidated.
m Carrying Group share Associated undertakings Country of operation % interest held value of profit loss At 31 December 2005 Acturis Ltd United Kingdom 70% 1 Barone, Budge & Dominick Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 20% 1 Capegate Lifestyle Pty Limited Republic of South Africa 34% 2 Capricorn Science and Technology Park Pty Limited Republic of South Africa 41% 3 Kimberley Clark Republic of South Africa 50% 22 3 Linx Holdings Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 20% 4 2 Sanbona Properties Pty Limited Republic of South Africa 50% 2 State Bank of Mauritius Nedbank International Ltd Mauritius 50% 7 1 The Internet Solutions Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 20% 20 Whirlprops 33 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 2 2 All other associated undertakings 29 9 93 17 All of the above investments in associated undertakings are unlisted.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 17 Investments in associated undertakings continued ii Aggregate financial information of investments in associated undertakings The aggregate financial information for all investments in associated undertakings is as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Total assets 301 256 Total liabilities 263 204 Total revenues 80 89 Net profit after tax 6 17 iii Aggregate Group investment in associated undertakings The aggregate amounts for the Groups investment in associated undertakings are as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Balance at beginning of the year 93 149 Additions from business combinations 6 Net disposals of investment in associated undertakings 13 72 Share of profit after tax 6 17 Dividends paid 9 1 Balance at end of the year 83 93 The Group has no significant investments which are accounted for as investment in associated undertakings, for which it owns less than 20% of the ordinary share capital.
iv Other Group holdings The above does not include companies whereby the Group has a holding of more than 20%, but does not have significant influence over these companies by virtue of the Group not having any direct involvement in decision making or the other owners possessing veto rights.
The investment by the Groups banking subsidiary in the State Bank of Mauritius Ltd was impaired by 10 million in 2005. v Contingent liabilities The Group is severally liable for the contingent liabilities relating to investments in associated undertakings of 2 million 2005: 8 million.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 130 18 Investment property m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Balance at beginning of the year 847 690 Additions 1 8 Additions from business combinations 2 Disposals 3 49 Net gain from fair value adjustments 139 191 Foreign exchange and other movements 188 7 Balance at end of the year 804 847 In 2006 additions of 1 million 2005: 8 million related to African long-term business.
Of the net gain arising from fair value adjustments on investment properties, 137 million 2005: 189 million related to African long-term business and 2 million 2005: 2 million related to African banking business.
The fair value of investment property leased to third parties under operating leases is as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Freehold 797 833 Long leaseholds 6 Short leaseholds 7 8 804 847 Rental income from investment property 87 98 Direct operating expense arising from investment property that generated rental income 21 29 66 69 The carrying amount of investment property is the fair value of the property as determined by a registered independent valuer at least every three years, and annually by locally qualified staff, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values are determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties in the same location as the Groups investment property.
The Groups current lease arrangements, which are entered into on an arms length basis and which are comparable to those for similar properties in the same location, are taken into account.
Investment property comprises a number of commercial properties that are leased to third parties.
Of the total investment property of 804 million 2005: 847 million, 802 million 2005: 847 million is attributable to South Africa and 2 million 2005: nil to Europe.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 19 Property, plant and equipment m Land Buildings Plant and equipment Total 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 Gross carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 63 60 331 326 507 534 901 920 Additions 1 2 5 11 93 74 99 87 Additions from business combinations 2 14 75 91 Increase arising from revaluation 3 7 25 21 28 28 Disposals 2 6 5 35 54 81 61 122 Foreign exchange and other movements 14 80 8 107 20 201 12 Balance at end of the year 53 63 290 331 514 507 857 901 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Balance at beginning of the year 6 18 357 390 363 408 Depreciation charge for the year 8 8 60 53 68 61 Disposals 1 12 42 74 43 86 Foreign exchange and other movements 8 30 12 30 20 Balance at end of the year 13 6 345 357 358 363 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 63 60 325 308 150 144 538 512 Balance at end of the year 53 63 277 325 169 150 499 538 The carrying value of property, plant and equipment leased to third parties under operating leases, included in the above is 20 million 2005: 28 million and comprises land of 3 million 2005: 4 million and buildings of 17 million 2005: 24 million.
The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment leased from third parties under finance leases which is included in the above is nil 2005: 3 million, and comprises land of nil 2005: 1 million and buildings of nil 2005: 2 million.
There are no restrictions on property, plant and equipment title as a result of security pledges and no contractual commitments for the acquisition of plant, property and equipment.
The revaluation of land and buildings relates to the African long-term business, 1 million and 19 million respectively, the African banking business, 2 million and 5 million respectively and the African general insurance business nil and 1m respectively.
For long-term business, land and buildings are valued as at 31 December each year by internal professional valuers and external valuations are obtained once every three years.
External professional valuers are used for the banking business.
For both businesses the valuation methodology adopted is dependent upon the nature of the property.
Income generating assets are valued using discounted cash flows and vacant land and property are valued according to sales of comparable properties.
The carrying value that would have been recognised had the land and buildings been carried under the cost model would be 19 million 2005: 25 million and 92 million 2005: 122 million respectively for the African long-term business and 15 million 2005: 21 million and 97 million 2005: 119 million for the African banking business respectively.
Total capital expenditure, net of depreciation of 499 million 2005: 538 million is attributable to South Africa 450 million 2005: 518 million, United States 14 million 2005: 15 million, Europe 28 million 2005: nil and other 7 million 2005: 5 million.
Total depreciation of 68 million 2005: 61 million is attributable to South Africa 51 million 2005: 54 million, United States 5 million 2005: 5 million, Europe 12 million 2005: nil and other nil 2005: 2 million.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 132 20 Operating lease arrangements i The Group as lessee m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 2006 2005 Banking 39 42 Non-banking 27 4 Minimum lease payments 66 46 m Year ended 31 December 2006 Year ended 31 December 2005 Outstanding commitments under non-cancellable NonNonoperating leases, fall due as follows: Banking Banking Total Banking Banking Total Within one year 45 26 71 39 4 43 In the second to fifth years inclusive 234 90 324 194 11 205 After five years 236 48 284 282 282 515 164 679 515 15 530 Operating lease payments principally represent rentals payable by the Group for the rental of buildings and equipment.
ii The Group as lessor m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Assets subject to operating leases 2006 2005 Land 3 4 Buildings 17 24 Investment property 804 847 824 875 m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Future minimum lease payments of contracts with tenants 2006 2005 Within one year 46 54 In the second to fifth years inclusive 115 134 After five years 32 34 193 222 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 21 Finance lease arrangements i Finance lease receivables m Minimum lease Present value of minimum payments receivable lease payments receivable At At At At 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December Amounts receivable under finance leases 2006 2005 2006 2005 Within one year 712 709 656 661 In the second to fifth years inclusive 2,692 2,679 2,477 2,498 After five years 25 25 23 23 3,429 3,413 3,156 3,182 Less: unearned finance income 273 231 Present value of minimum lease payments receivable 3,156 3,182 3,156 3,182 The accumulated allowance for uncollectable minimum lease payments receivable is 69 million, 2005: 99 million.
ii Finance lease payables m At At 31 December 31 December Net carrying amount at the balance sheet date 2006 2005 Land leased from third party 1 Buildings leased from third party 2 3 m Minimum lease Present value of minimum payments lease payments At At At At 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December Amounts payable under finance leases 2006 2005 2006 2005 Within one year 1 1 In the second to fifth years inclusive After five years 1 1 2 Less: future charges Present value of minimum lease payments payable 1 2 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 134 22 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred income taxes are calculated on all temporary differences at the tax rate applicable to the jurisdiction in which the timing differences arise.
i Deferred tax assets The movement on the deferred tax assets account is as follows: m Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange 1 January charge credited to disposals of and other 31 December 2006 credit equity subsidiaries movements 2006 Insurance funds 186 32 29 125 Tax losses carried forward 241 138 2 44 337 Accelerated capital allowances 95 44 9 42 Available for sale securities 4 4 Other temporary differences 60 45 8 23 7 7 458 107 8 25 71 511 m Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange 1 January charge credited to disposals of and other 31 December 2005 credit equity subsidiaries movements 2005 Insurance funds 156 16 14 186 Tax losses carried forward 266 25 5 5 241 Accelerated capital allowances 1 14 80 95 Available for sale securities 8 4 4 Other temporary differences 25 11 5 79 60 440 6 24 458 Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.
The amounts for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised comprise: m 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Gross amount Tax Gross amount Tax Unrelieved tax losses Expiring within one year 39 2 65 3 Expiring in the second to fifth years inclusive 75 4 129 6 Expiring after five years 1,039 244 384 69 Accelerated capital allowances 25 19 36 11 Other timing differences 200 73 227 80 1,378 342 841 169 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 22 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued ii Deferred tax liabilities The movement on the deferred tax liabilities account is as follows: m Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange 1 January charge credited disposals of and other 31 December 2006 credit to equity subsidiaries movements 2006 Accelerated tax depreciation 2 2 1 5 Deferred acquisition costs 302 63 15 42 338 Leasing 157 30 14 173 PVIF 62 375 2 311 Other acquired intangibles 9 119 1 109 Available for sale securities 18 13 26 1 4 Other temporary differences 132 274 11 99 41 453 611 311 22 593 100 1,393 m Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange 1 January charge credited disposals of and other 31 December 2005 credit to equity subsidiaries movements 2005 Accelerated tax depreciation 2 2 Deferred acquisition costs 169 61 46 26 302 Leasing 156 3 2 157 PVIF Other acquired intangibles Available for sale securities 84 9 80 5 18 Other temporary differences 25 99 7 51 132 386 172 34 7 80 611 As the Group is able to control the reversal of temporary differences in respect of investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and JVs and it is probable that these temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future, there is no need to provide for the associated deferred tax liabilities.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences on which further tax might be due if these temporary differences reversed would be in the region of 1.6 billion 2005: 1.9 billion.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 136 23 Insurance contract provisions m At 31 December 2006 At 31 December 2005 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net Reserve for losses and loss adjustment expenses: Outstanding claims reserves 506 64 442 469 72 397 Claims incurred but not reported 78 12 66 50 7 43 Reserve for unearned premiums 87 18 69 84 21 63 Future policyholders benefits 21,824 669 21,155 22,655 355 22,300 22,495 763 21,732 23,258 455 22,803 m At 31 December 2006 At 31 December 2005 Future policyholders benefits Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net Movements in liabilities in respect of contracts with policyholders Balance at beginning of the year 22,655 355 22,300 18,191 239 17,952 Additions from business combinations 1,095 64 1,031 Income Premium income 4,216 118 4,098 3,326 100 3,226 Investment income 3,066 3,066 2,969 2,969 Currency translation gain 1,068 32 1,036 Other income 10 353 343 4 68 64 Expenses Claims and policy benefits 2,845 127 2,718 2,088 67 2,021 Operating expenses 743 24 719 672 16 656 Currency translation loss 4,685 64 4,621 Other charges and transfers 690 690 68 68 Taxation 53 53 120 120 Transfer from to operating profit 202 6 196 45 1 46 Balance at end of the year 21,824 669 21,155 22,655 355 22,300 Insurance contract provisions are calculated based upon assumptions determined in accordance with local accounting requirements.
As described in the accounting policies, these vary significantly between geographies and are therefore discussed separately below.
South Africa In the calculation of liabilities, provision has been made for: the best estimate of future experience, as described below: plus the compulsory margins as set out in the Actuarial Society of South Africa professional guidance notes: plus discretionary margins reflecting mainly the excess of capital charges over the compulsory investment margin of 0.25% for policies that are valued prospectively.
These discretionary margins cause capital charges to be included in operating profits as they are charged and ensure that profits are released appropriately over the term of each policy.
Other discretionary margins, mainly held to cover: mortality and investment return margins for Group Schemes funeral policies, due to the additional risk associated with this business, and to ensure that profit is released appropriately over the term of the policies: expense margins in the pricing basis for Employee Benefits with-profit annuities: profit margins on Employee Benefits Platinum and non-profit annuities to ensure that profit is released appropriately over the life of the policies: mortality margins on Individual Business life policies, accidental death supplementary benefits and disability supplementary benefits, due to uncertainty about future experience: margins on certain Individual Business non-profit annuities, due to the inability to fully match assets to liabilities as a result of the limited availability of long-dated bonds: and interest margins on Employee Benefits PHI claims in payment due to the limited availability of CPI-linked bonds and long-dated bonds and the high rate of change in the portfolio high volume of new claimants and terminations.
Liabilities include provisions to meet financial options and guarantees, and make due allowance for potential lapses and surrenders, based on levels recently experienced.
Mortality and disability rates assumed are consistent with Old Mutuals recent experience, or expected future experience if this would result in a higher liability.
In particular, allowance has been made for the expected deterioration in assured lives experience due to HIV AIDS, and for the expected improvement in annuitant mortality.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 23 Insurance contract provisions continued The future gross investment returns by major asset categories and expense inflation excluding margins assumed for South Africa insurance business are as follows: At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Fixed interest securities 8.0% 8.0% Cash 6.0% 6.0% Equities 11.5% 11.5% Properties 9.5% 9.5% Future expense inflation 5.0% 5.0% 7% 2005: 7% for Individual Business administered on old platforms and 6% 2005: 6% for Group Schemes business.
For non-profit annuities, liabilities are determined by calculating the present value of projected future benefits and expenses, valued using current fixed-interest yields or swap curve yields.
Assumptions are based upon experience as analysed in the following investigations: Type of business Type of investigation Period of investigation Individual business Flexi business mortality 2003 to 2005 Conventional business mortality 1999 to 2000 Annuitant mortality 2001 to 2004 Dread disease 2000 to 2002 Disability 2000 to 2002 Persistency 2004 to 2005 Group schemes Mortality 2005 Persistency 2005 Employee benefits Annuitant mortality 2000 to 2004 Group assurance Ongoing for the purpose of setting scheme rates All Expenses Reviewed on an annual basis There were various changes to valuation assumptions, which have resulted in a net reduction in the value of insurance contract provisions of 18 million as at 31 December 2006, with a corresponding increase in profit before tax of the same amount.
The most significant were a reduction in Individual Business maintenance expenses and a reduction in the provision for conversion option mortality experience, which reduced the value of liabilities by 11 million and 6 million respectively.
United States Insurance contract provisions and Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC balances for traditional insurance products with fixed premiums and benefits measured according to FAS 60 under US GAAP are calculated using mortality, lapse, expense and discount assumptions as at inception of the contract.
These assumptions are determined based on managements best estimate, reflecting actual and expected experience, and also include provision for adverse deviation.
The assumptions are locked in as of the date of issue, and are revised only where liability adequacy testing based on current best estimate assumptions results in loss recognition.
For insurance products with flexible premiums or benefits measured according to FAS 97 under US GAAP, the account value is held as the base insurance contract provision, and the assumptions below are therefore not applicable.
DAC balances, and additional reserves held for items including lapse guarantees, persistency bonuses and gains followed by losses, utilise best estimate assumptions as of the valuation date.
Mortality rates vary by gender and issue age: lapse rates vary by issue age and duration.
Reserves for life contingent payout annuities are accumulated using the effective interest rate, which is the rate that discounts future liability cash flows back to the gross premium less transaction costs.
All other FAS 60 products use a discount rate based on best estimate of future yields at policy inception.
Best estimate assumptions as of December 2006 reflect experience as analysed in the following investigations: Assumption Period of investigation Mortality rates assurance 1994 to 2005 Mortality rates annuities 2003 Lapse rates 2003 and 2005 Expenses 2005 At 31 December 2006, there was no change to assumptions as a result of the liability adequacy testing performed.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 138 23 Insurance contract provisions continued Europe Insurance contract provisions for the Groups Europe long-term business are limited, and principally comprise technical provisions for pure disability and death benefit cover sold in the United Kingdom and Sweden, together with death benefit risk cover in respect of unit-linked assurance products.
24 Deferred acquisition costs m Insurance Investment Asset Year end 31 December 2006 contracts contracts management Total Balance at beginning of the year 936 121 32 1,089 Acquisition cost deferred on inwards business 378 308 57 743 Additions from business combinations 4 4 Amortisation 115 15 11 141 Foreign exchange and other movements 96 13 8 117 Balance at end of the year 1,103 401 74 1,578 m Insurance Investment Asset Year end 31 December 2005 contracts contracts management Total Balance at beginning of the year 521 105 29 655 Acquisition cost deferred on inwards business 388 30 20 438 Amortisation 98 19 3 120 Foreign exchange and other movements 125 5 14 116 Balance at end of the year 936 121 32 1,089 25 Loans, receivables and advances m At 31 December 2006 At 31 December 2005 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Loans originated by the Group Home loans 9,778 9,778 6,919 6,919 Commercial mortgages 2,600 2,600 2,364 2,364 Properties in possession 10 10 28 28 Credit cards 386 386 374 374 Overdrafts 1,004 1,004 1,065 1,065 Other loans to clients 5,176 5,176 3,855 3,855 Policyholder loans 102 102 49 49 Preference shares and debentures 399 399 374 374 Factoring accounts 61 61 62 62 Trade, other bills and bankers acceptances 7 7 30 30 Loans to other banks 194 194 624 624 Remittances in transit 12 12 8 8 Total Loans originated by the Group 19,729 19,729 15,752 15,752 Finance leases 3,453 3,453 3,182 3,182 Total gross loans, receivables and advances 23,182 23,182 18,934 18,934 Less provisions for impairment: Specific provision 276 276 406 406 Portfolio provision 102 102 72 72 Total net loans, receivables and advances 22,804 22,804 18,456 18,456 Non-performing loans included above had a book value less impairment provisions of 155 million 2005: 205 million.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 25 Loans, receivables and advances continued Movements in provisions for impairment are as follows: m Specific Portfolio Year ended 31 December 2006 provision provision Total Balance at beginning of the year 406 72 478 Income statement charge 81 42 123 Recoveries of amounts previously written-off against the impairment 4 4 Amounts written-off against impairment provision 134 134 Foreign exchange and other movements 73 12 85 Balance at end of the year 276 102 378 m Specific Portfolio Year ended 31 December 2005 provision provision Total Balance at beginning of the year 528 89 617 Income statement charge 91 12 103 Amounts written-off against impairment provision 215 20 235 Foreign exchange and other movements 2 9 7 Balance at end of the year 406 72 478 The specific provisions for impairment at 31 December 2006 included 154 million 2005: 190 million relating to non-performing loans and advances made by the banking business.
The aggregate amount of non-performing loans on which interest was not being accrued amounted to 309 million 2005: 395 million.
The uncollected interest accrued on impaired loans amounted to nil 2005: 7 million.
26 Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities The Group utilises the following derivative instruments for both hedging and non-hedging purposes: Foreign currency, interest rate and equity, or equity index, futures are contractual obligations to receive or pay a net amount based on changes in currency rates or underlying equities, or indices or interest rates or buy or sell foreign currency or a financial instrument on a future date at a specified price established in an organised financial market an Exchange.
Since futures contracts are collateralised by cash or marketable securities and changes in the futures contract value are settled daily with the Exchange, the credit risk is negligible.
Forward rate agreements are individually negotiated interest rate contracts that call for a cash settlement at a future date for the difference between a contracted rate of interest and the current market rate, based on a notional principal amount.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are individually negotiated contracts that require settlement of the pre-agreed currency amounts at a future date.
Currency and interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange one set of cash flows for another.
Swaps result in an economic exchange of currencies or interest rates or a combination of both i. e. cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Except for certain currency swaps, no exchange of principal takes place.
The Groups credit risk represents the potential cost to replace the swap contracts if counter parties fail to perform their obligation.
This risk is monitored continuously with reference to the current fair value, a proportion of the notional amount of the contracts and the liquidity of the market.
To control the level of credit risk taken, the Group assesses counter parties using the same techniques as for its lending activities.
Foreign currency, interest rate options and equity, or equity index, are contractual agreements under which the writer grants the holder the right, but not the obligation, either to buy a call option or sell a put option at or by a set date or during a set period, a specific amount of a foreign currency or a financial instrument or amount of assets determined by reference to an index at a predetermined price.
In consideration for the assumption of foreign exchange, interest rate or asset price risk, the seller receives a premium from the purchaser.
Options may be either exchange-traded or negotiated between the Group and a customer over-the-counter.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on purchased options only, and only to the extent of their carrying amount, which is their fair value.
The notional amounts of certain types of financial instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance sheet, but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The derivative instruments become in-the-money or out-of-the-money as a result of fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or asset prices relative to their terms.
The aggregate contractual or notional amount of derivative financial instruments on hand, the extent to which instruments are in-the-money or out-of-the-money and, therefore, the aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly from time to time.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 140 26 Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities continued The following tables provide a detailed breakdown of the contractual or notional amounts and the fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments outstanding at year-end.
These instruments allow the Group and its customers to transfer, modify or reduce their credit, equity market, foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group undertakes transactions involving derivative financial instruments with other financial institutions.
Management has established limits commensurate with the credit quality of the institutions with whom it deals, and manages the resulting exposures such that a default by any individual counterparty is unlikely to have a materially adverse impact on the Group.
m Notional principals Fair values Positive values Negative values Assets Liabilities At 31 December 2006 Equity derivatives Options written 5,447 260 Options purchased 5,768 527 Futures 769 719 7 11 6,537 6,166 534 271 Exchange rate contracts Forwards 6,920 6,298 326 288 Swaps 607 859 127 33 Options purchased 57 53 7,584 7,210 453 321 Interest rate contracts Swaps 8,177 10,035 224 369 Forward rate agreements 2,918 2,484 5 3 Options purchased 94 283 Options written 77 Futures 514 715 17 12 Caps 289 279 1 2 11,992 13,873 247 386 Credit derivatives Credit linked notes 66 50 Credit default swaps 50 10 116 60 Other derivatives 182 267 4 82 Total 26,411 27,576 1,238 1,060 Included in the above are the following that qualify for hedge accounting Exchange rate contracts Swaps 196 305 98 3 Forwards 242 1 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 26 Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities continued m Notional principals Fair values Positive values Negative values Assets Liabilities At 31 December 2005 Equity derivatives Options written 5,474 298 Options purchased 2,738 478 Futures 37 2,814 38 25 2,775 8,288 516 323 Exchange rate contracts Forwards 5,878 5,234 297 275 Exchange futures 318 246 51 27 Options purchased 42 2 2 Options written 3 6,238 5,485 350 302 Interest rate contracts Swaps 10,481 11,957 630 868 Forward rate agreements 4,965 5,220 8 14 Options written 217 1 Futures 790 924 63 63 Caps 154 209 Floors 232 217 1 1 16,622 18,744 702 947 Credit derivatives Credit linked notes 21 Credit default swaps 9 30 Other derivatives 6 456 36 62 Total 25,671 32,973 1,604 1,634 Included in the above are the following that qualify for hedge accounting Exchange rate contracts Forwards 524 5 Interest rate contracts Swaps 243 84 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 142 27 Financial assets fair valued through income statement m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Financial assets held for trading Government bonds 434 80 Other debt securities Listed 1,205 455 Unlisted 70 1,063 Equity securities listed 434 97 Other financial assets 3,225 3,225 5,368 4,920 Designated as fair valued through income statement Government bonds 3,781 3,990 Other debt securities Listed 2,992 2,660 Unlisted 2,531 2,882 Other equity securities Listed 10,653 12,154 Unlisted 506 595 Unit trusts and other pooled investments 44,448 6,070 Other financial assets 2,786 2,107 Total designated as fair valued through income statement 67,697 30,458 Total financial assets fair valued through income statement 73,065 35,378 Included in government bonds are securities pledged under repurchase agreements with other banks whose market value at 31 December 2006 was 267 million 2005: 521 million.
Of these, 179 million mature in 2007: 88 million mature in 2008.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 28 Other financial assets m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Available-for-sale securities Debt securities at fair value Listed 7,687 7,908 Unlisted 2,189 2,700 Equity securities at fair value Listed 830 328 Unlisted 297 485 Other financial assets 47 218 Total available-for-sale securities 11,050 11,639 Debt securities held-to-maturity Debt securities at amortised cost Listed 518 626 Total other financial assets 11,568 12,265 The fair value of held-to-maturity debt securities was 518 million 2005: 626 million.
The movement in other financial assets may be summarised as follows: m AvailableHeld-toYear to 31 December 2006 for-sale maturity Total Balance at beginning of the year 11,639 626 12,265 Additions from business combinations 432 432 Additions 6,173 37 6,210 Disposals, sales and redemptions 5,217 240 5,457 Changes in fair value 2 2 Foreign exchange and other movements 1,547 337 1,884 Balance at end of the year 11,050 518 11,568 m AvailableHeld-toYear to 31 December 2005 for-sale maturity Total Balance at beginning of the year 9,111 652 9,763 Additions 6,810 6,810 Disposals, sales and redemptions 5,220 24 5,244 Changes in fair value 226 226 Foreign exchange and other movements 1,164 2 1,162 Balance at end of the year 11,639 626 12,265 29 Short-term securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Negotiable certificates of deposit 55 171 Treasury bills 254 343 Other money market placements 1,510 1,250 Total other short-term securities 1,819 1,764 Treasury bills are debt securities issued by the South African banking business for a term of three months, six months or a year.
Bills are categorised as assets held for trading and carried at their fair value.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 144 30 Other assets m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Debtors arising from direct insurance operations Amounts owed by policyholders 66 62 Amounts owed by intermediaries 114 49 Other 50 45 230 156 Debtors arising from reinsurance operations 304 66 Outstanding settlements 1,241 298 Other receivables 601 849 Customer indebtedness for acceptances 188 118 Accrued interest and rent 260 218 Prepayments and accrued income 341 345 Other assets 470 323 Total other assets 3,635 2,373 31 Assets and liabilities held-for-sale Assets held-for-sale m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Europe with-profits business 1,129 South Africa banking business 33 34 Other 3 2 1,165 36 Liabilities held-for-sale m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Europe with-profits business 1,077 South Africa banking business 30 1,107 Europe with-profits business Following a strategic review of its European businesses the Group has chosen to exit the with-profits segment of the savings market in Spain.
The sale is subject to the approval of the Spanish regulator.
This is anticipated during the first quarter of 2007.
Net proceeds of sale will be approximately 52 million.
The net tangible and intangible assets of the business at the end of the financial year were 52 million.
Consequently no profit or loss is anticipated on disposal in 2007.
South Africa banking businesses Following completion of a management and minority buy-out the Groups South Africa banking business will dispose of its interest in a financial solutions business.
The business was formerly a Black Economic Empowerment partnership venture.
The sale is subject to Competition Commission approval.
The Competition Commission process is expected to be concluded in the first half of 2007.
The final sale price will be determined on the date of Competition Commission approval, however no material gain or loss is expected to result.
The Groups South African banking business held-for-sale asset at 31 December 2005 was sold during 2006.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 32 Financial liabilities fair valued through income statement i Financial liabilities fair valued through income statement m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Liabilities designated fair valued through income statement 4,943 5,689 Investment contract liabilities At fair value 46,953 9,268 With discretionary participating features 5,690 6,230 57,586 21,187 ii Investment contract liabilities m Investment contract liabilities fair value Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Balance at beginning of the year 9,268 7,748 Additions from business combinations 31,651 New contributions received 9,507 1,703 Portfolio acquisitions 91 Maturities 694 332 Withdrawals surrenders 4,196 1,367 Fair value movements 2,920 1,214 Amortisation 43 17 Foreign exchange and other movements 1,460 194 Balance at end of the year 46,953 9,268 iii Liabilities with discretionary participating features m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Balance at beginning of the year 6,230 5,244 Income Premium income 445 482 Investment income 1,419 1,414 Currency translation losses gains 1,337 39 Other income 31 527 1,966 Expenses Claims and policy benefits 895 836 Operating expenses 62 58 Other changes and transfers 26 Taxation 18 6 1,001 900 Transfer to profit 66 80 Balance at end of the year 5,690 6,230 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 146 33 Borrowed funds m At At 31 December 31 December Notes 2006 2005 Senior debt securities and term loan 33 i 831 595 Subordinated debt securities 33 ii 845 838 Borrowed funds 1,676 1,433 i Senior debt securities and term loan m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 1 Floating rate notes 175 167 2 Fixed rate notes 315 327 3 Revolving credit facility 226 Term loan and other loans 9 26 Investment fund borrowings 106 75 Total senior debt securities and term loan 831 595 The maturities of the senior debt securities and term loan are as follows: m Greater than Less 1 year and Greater than less than than 1 year 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2006 Floating rate notes 49 24 102 175 Fixed rate notes 265 40 10 315 Revolving credit facility 226 226 Term loans and other loans 9 9 Investment fund borrowings 106 106 Total senior debt securities and term loan 420 73 338 831 At 31 December 2005 Floating rate notes 24 26 117 167 Fixed rate notes 313 14 327 Revolving credit facility Term loans and other loans 26 26 Investment fund borrowings 75 75 Total senior debt securities and term loan 125 339 131 595 Senior debt securities and term loan comprise: 1 Floating rate notes: 19 million note repayable in December 2010, with holders having the option to elect for early redemption every 6 months with coupon referenced against 6 month LIBOR less 0.50%.
US$150 million repayable September 2014 at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.63%.
US$50 million repayable September 2011 at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.50%.
US$10 million repayable September 2009 at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.35%.
SEK300 million repayable March 2007 at 3 month STIBOR plus 0.75%.
SEK100 million repayable March 2009 at 3 month STIBOR plus 0.20%.
22 million repayable January 2010 at 3 month EURIBOR plus 0.35%.
SEK50 million repayable March 2010 at 3 month STIBOR plus 0.38%.
2 Fixed rate notes: 400 million Euro bond repayable April 2007, capital and interest swapped into fixed rate US Dollars at an average rate of 6.59%.
30 million Euro bond repayable July 2010, capital and interest swapped into fixed rate US Dollars at 5.28%.
10 million Euro bond repayable December 2010, capital and interest swapped into floating rate US Dollars at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.95%.
20 million Euro bond repayable August 2013, capital and interest swapped into floating rate US Dollars at 3 month LIBOR plus 1.30%.
The total fair value of the swap derivatives associated with the Senior Notes is 101 million 2005: 84 million.
These are recognised as assets and are included within Note 26.
3 Revolving credit facility The Company has a 1,250 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility, which had an original maturity date of September 2010.
On 18 August 2006, syndicate banks agreed to extend the maturity date of 1,232 million of the facility by twelve months to September 2011.
At 31 December 2006 353 million of this facility was utilised, 226 million in the form of drawn debt and 127 million in the form of irrevocable letters of credit.
At 31 December 2005, the facility was not drawn down.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 33 Borrowed funds continued ii Subordinated debt securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Banking 1 US$40 million repayable 17 April 2008 6 month LIBOR Repaid 23 1 US$18 million repayable 31 August 2009 6 month LIBOR less 1.5% 9 11 2 R2.0 billion repayable 20 September 2011 11.3% Repaid 190 2 R4.0 billion repayable 9 July 2012 13.0% 312 391 321 615 Other 3 R3.0 billion repayable 27 October 2020 8.9% 219 275 4 300 million repayable 21 January 2016 5.0% 291 5 R250 million preference shares repayable 9 June 2011 18 R550 million preference shares repaid 50 6 SEK850 million repayable in 2017 65 593 325 Less: banking subordinated debt securities held by other Group companies 69 102 Total subordinated liabilities 845 838 The subordinated notes rank behind the claims against the Group depositors and other unsecured, unsubordinated creditors.
None of the Groups subordinated notes are secured.
1 These instruments are matched either by advances to clients or covered against exchange rate fluctuations.
2 These notes are subordinated to all unsecured, unsubordinated claims against the issuer, Nedbank Limited, but rank equally with all other unsecured unsubordinated obligations and are callable by the Issuer after five years from the date of issue, i. e. 20 September 2006 and 9 July 2007, at which time the interest converts to a floating three-month LIBOR rate.
The Group redeemed these notes on 20 September 2006.
3 These bonds have a maturity date of 27 October 2020 and pay a coupon of 8.92% to 27 October 2015 and 3 month JIBAR plus 1.59% thereafter.
The Group has the option to repay the bonds at par on 27 October 2015 and at 3 monthly intervals thereafter.
4 These bonds, issued on 20 January 2006, have a maturity date of 21 January 2016 and pay a coupon of 5.0% to 21 January 2011 and 6 month LIBOR plus 1.13% thereafter.
The coupon on the bonds was swapped into floating rate of 6 month STIBOR 0.50%.
The Group has the option to repay the bonds at par on 21 January 2011 and at 6 monthly intervals thereafter.
5 These preference shares are redeemable on 9 June 2011 and pay a variable cumulative coupon of 61.0% of the Prime Rate as quoted by Nedbank Limited.
The Group has the option to redeem the shares at par at any time before the final redemption date but after giving an agreed period of notice.
6 SEK700 million relates to bonds with a call date of 28 March 2007 and pay a coupon of 8.1%.
SEK150 million relates to bonds with a call date of 28 June 2007 and pay a coupon of 7.82%.
Both will be repaid on the call dates.
34 Provisions m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Surplus property 41 54 Client compensation 8 10 Warranties on sale of business 113 20 Liability for long service leave 30 35 Other provisions 337 123 529 242 Post employment benefits 13 43 Total 542 285 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 148 34 Provisions continued m Warranties Liability for Surplus Client on sale of long service Year ended 31 December 2006 propertycompensation business leave Other Total Balance at beginning of the year 54 10 20 35 123 242 Additions from business combinations 3 102 146 251 Unused amounts reversed 5 2 6 15 28 Unwind of discount 2 2 Charge to income statement 1 1 3 136 141 Utilised during the year 14 1 3 1 39 58 Foreign exchange and other movements 7 14 21 Balance at end of the year 41 8 113 30 337 529 At 31 December 2006 provisions in relation to sale of business were 113 million.
These principally relate to warranties in respect of the sale of American Skandia to Prudential Financial, which were recognised by the Group upon acquisition.
At 31 December 2006 other provisions include 115 million in respect of the distribution of proceeds arising upon the closure of the unclaimed shares trusts.
Further information is included in note 4 viii.
Also included in this amount are provisions for ongoing litigation across the Group totalling 71 million.
m Warranties Liability for Surplus Client on sale of long service Year ended 31 December 2005 propertycompensation business leave Other Total Balance at beginning of the year 67 12 20 36 98 233 Unused amounts reversed 2 3 5 10 Unwind of discount 3 3 Charge to income statement 3 2 38 43 Utilised during the year 16 3 1 6 26 Foreign exchange and other movements 1 2 2 1 Balance at end of the year 54 10 20 35 123 242 35 Deferred revenue m Year to 31 December 2006 Year to December 2005 Long-term Asset Long-term Asset Banking business management Total Banking business management Total Balance at beginning of the year 26 68 44 138 19 77 43 139 Fees and commission income deferred 13 143 60 216 7 7 21 35 Amortisation 8 10 21 39 16 7 23 Foreign exchange and other movements 6 3 1 4 13 13 Balance at end of the year 25 204 82 311 26 68 44 138 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 36 Amounts owed to depositors m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Amounts owed to other banks Items in course of collection 24 34 Deposits from other banks 1,847 2,543 1,871 2,577 Amounts owed to other depositors Current accounts 2,268 2,342 Savings deposits 978 1,027 Other deposits and loan accounts 16,569 12,140 19,815 15,509 Other amounts owed Certificates of deposit 2,644 2,112 Money market deposits 722 947 3,366 3,059 25,052 21,145 Amounts owed to other depositors by sector Government and public sector 1,384 2,079 Individuals 9,975 8,131 Business sector 8,456 5,299 19,815 15,509 37 Other liabilities m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Amounts payable on direct insurance business Funds held under reinsurance business ceded 26 Amounts owed to policyholders 524 411 Amounts owed to intermediaries 55 84 Other direct insurance operation creditors 34 34 Accounts payable on reinsurance business 338 24 Accruals and deferred income 553 331 Share based payments cash-settled scheme liabilities 36 43 Trade creditors 637 349 Outstanding settlements 1,948 647 Total securities sold under agreements to repurchase 290 969 Other liabilities 825 428 5,266 3,320 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 150 38 Equity i Share capital m At At 31 December 31 December Authorised and issued share capital 2006 2005 Authorised ordinary shares of 10p each 750 600 Issued ordinary shares of 10p each 550 410 The Companys authorised share capital was increased to 750 million, divided into 7,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each in accordance with a resolution of shareholders passed at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 14 November 2005, conditional upon the Companys offer to acquire  Skandia publ becoming or being declared wholly unconditional.
This condition was satisfied on 26 January 2006. ii Perpetual preferred callable securities In addition to the Groups senior and subordinated debt, the Group issued perpetual preferred callable securities with a total carrying value of 688 million during 2005.
In accordance with IFRS accounting standards these instruments are classified as equity and disclosed within equity shareholders funds as shown on page 89.
On 24 March 2005 the Group issued 350 million of perpetual preferred callable securities.
These are unsecured and subordinated to the claims of senior creditors and the holders of any priority preference shares.
For an initial period to 24 March 2020 interest is payable at a fixed rate of 6.4 per cent per annum annually in arrears.
From 24 March 2020 interest is reset semi-annually at 2.2 per cent per annum above the Sterling inter-bank offer rate for six month Sterling deposits, and is payable semi-annually in arrears.
Coupon payments may be deferred at the Groups discretion.
The perpetual preferred callable securities are redeemable at the discretion of the Company at their principal amount from 24 March 2020.
On 4 November 2005 the Group issued further perpetual preferred callable securities in the form of 500 million Step-up Option B Undated Subordinated Notes issued under the Global Note Programme.
For an initial period to 4 November 2015 the notes pay interest at a fixed rate of 5.0 per cent per annum annually in arrears.
After this date the interest is reset semi-annually at 2.63 per cent per annum above 6 month EURIBOR and is payable semi-annually in arrears.
The notes may be redeemed at their principal amount from 4 November 2050.
39 Minority interests balance sheet i Ordinary shares m Year to Year to 31 December 31 December Reconciliation of movements in minority interests 2006 2005 Balance at beginning of the year 1,012 783 Minority interests share of profit 207 203 Minority interests share of dividends paid 110 49 Net disposal acquisition of interests 11 3 Foreign exchange and other movements 250 78 Balance at end of the year 848 1,012 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 39 Minority interests balance sheet continued ii Preferred securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 1 R2,000 million non-cumulative preference shares 140 140 2 R792 million non-cumulative preference shares 71 71 3 R300 million non-cumulative preferences shares 22 4 US$750 million cumulative preferred securities 458 458 691 669 Unamortised issue costs 13 13 Total in issue at 31 December 678 656 Preferred securities are held at historic value of consideration received less unamortised issue costs.
1 200 million R10 preference shares issued by Nedbank Group Limited Nedbank, the Groups banking subsidiary.
These shares are non-redeemable and non-cumulative and pay a cash dividend equivalent to 75% of the prime overdraft interest rate of Nedbank.
Preference shareholders are only entitled to vote during periods when a dividend or any part of it remains unpaid after the due date for payment or when resolutions are proposed that directly affect any rights attaching to the shares or the rights of the holders.
Preference shareholders will be entitled to receive their dividends in priority to any payment of dividends made in respect of any other class of Nedbanks shares.
2 77.3 million R10 preference shares issued at R10.68 per share by Nedbank on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
3 30 million R10 preference shares issued on 22 June 2006 by Imperial Bank Limited a subsidiary of Nedbank Limited, on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
4 US$750 million Guaranteed Cumulative Perpetual Preference Securities issued on 19 May 2003 by Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. a subsidiary of the Group.
Subject to certain limitations, holders of these securities are entitled to receive preferential cash distributions at a fixed rate of 8.0% per annum payable in arrears on a quarterly basis.
The Group may defer payment of distributions at its sole discretion, but such an act may restrict Old Mutual plc from paying dividends on its ordinary shares for a period of 12 months.
Arrears of distributions are payable cumulatively only on redemption of the securities or at the Groups option.
The securities are perpetual, but may be redeemed at the discretion of the Group from 22 December 2008.
The costs of issue are being amortised over the period to 22 December 2008.
40 Post balance sheet events On 16 January 2007, the Company raised 750 million through the placement of a callable note in accordance with the Company's 3.5 billion Euro Note Programme.
Interest is fixed at 4.5 per cent until 18 January 2012 and is payable annually in arrear.
Thereafter interest is floating and payable bi-annually in arrear at the six month EURIBOR plus 0.96 per cent.
This instrument will be recognised as subordinated debt within the Group's 2007 financial statements.
On 2 February 2007, the Groups United States asset management business acquired a majority interest in Ashfield Capital Partners, LLC.
On 5 February 2007, the Groups South African banking subsidiary launched two subordinated Tier II bonds with a nominal value of R650 million fixed at 9.03 per cent, and R1 billion fixed at 8.90 per cent, callable on 8 February 2012 and 8 February 2014, respectively.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 152 41 Post employment benefits The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
The assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension costs and contributions relating to defined benefit schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Actuarial advice confirms that the current level of contributions payable to each pension scheme, together with existing assets, are adequate to secure members benefits over the remaining service lives of participating employees.
The schemes are reviewed at least on a triennial basis or in accordance with local practice and regulations.
In the intervening years the actuary reviews the continuing appropriateness of the assumptions applied.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the projected benefit obligations of the Groups pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they operate.
i Liability for defined benefit obligations m Other post-retirement Pension plans benefit schemes Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 2006 2005 Changes in projected benefit obligation Projected benefit obligation at beginning of the year 497 430 152 125 Additions from business combinations 304 Funds not previously consolidated 13 Benefits earned during the year 10 4 4 5 Interest cost on benefit obligation 36 25 9 11 Plan amendments assumption changes 1 32 Actuarial loss gain 2 16 2 1 Benefits paid 31 16 4 8 Settlements 1 Foreign exchange and other movements 55 6 30 6 Projected benefit obligation at end of the year 758 497 133 152 Change in plan assets Plan assets at fair value at beginning of the year 508 428 152 118 Additions from business combinations 333 Funds not previously consolidated 18 Actual return on plan assets 88 71 18 17 Company contributions 14 7 2 4 Employee contributions 1 1 Benefits paid 29 16 4 7 Foreign exchange and other movements 79 17 29 2 Plan assets at fair value at end of the year 836 508 139 152 Net liability recognised in balance sheet Funded status of plan 78 11 6 Unrecognised assets 16 18 Other amounts recognised in balance sheet 1 2 Unrecognised actuarial gains 65 26 13 8 Net amount recognised in balance sheet 3 33 8 10 ii Expense recognised in the income statement m Other post-retirement Pension plans benefit schemes Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 2006 2005 Current service costs 8 4 5 6 Interest cost 29 28 9 11 Expected return on plan assets 38 31 9 12 Net actuarial losses recognised in the year 1 5 1 Effect of assumption changes 11 Past service cost 1 Gains on curtailment 1 Total included in staff costs 17 4 5 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 41 Post employment benefits continued iii Principal actuarial assumptions Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 African pension schemes Discount rate 8.0-9.0% 8.0% Expected return on plan assets: Equities 7.8-11.0% 11.0% Debt 4.8-9.0% 8.0% Property 9.0% 11.0% Cash 2.8-6.0% 6.0% Annuities and other 8.0-9.0% 8.0% Future salary increases 5.6-6.0% 5.3-5.8% Pensions in payment and deferred pensions inflation 4.5% 4.3% Price inflation 4.8-5.0% 4.3% UK and Guernsey pension schemes Discount rate 5.0% 4.8-5.1% Expected return on plan assets: Equities 7.5-8.1% 6.6-7.3% Debt 4.5-5.1% 4.0-5.0% Property 6.1% 4.8-6.6% Cash 3.1-5.0% 4.3-4.8% Annuities and other 5.0-8.1% 4.8% Future salary increases 4.25% 3.8-4.3% Pensions in payment and deferred pensions inflation 3.0-4.0% 2.8% Price inflation 3.0-3.25% 2.8-3.0% Year to 31 December 2006 Europe pension schemes Discount rate 3.8% Expected return on plan assets: Equities 6.2% Debt 3.2% Property 4.8% Annuities and other 4.8% Future salary increases 3.3% Pensions in payment and deferred pensions inflation 2.0% Price inflation 2.0% Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 African other post retirement schemes Discount rate 8.3-9.0% 7.5-8.0% Expected return on plan assets: 8.3-9.0% 8.5-8.5% Future salary increases 6.5-7.5% 5.8% Price inflation 4.8-5.5% 4.3% Health cost inflation 6.3-6.8% 6.0-8.0% Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 154 41 Post employment benefits continued iv Plan asset allocation Other post-retirement Pension plans benefit schemes At At At At 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 2006 2005 Equity securities 38.1% 45.2% 14.2% 32.7% Debt securities 35.2% 31.0% 5.6% 25.0% Property 5.0% 1.6% 2.5% Cash 3.7% 4.2% 18.3% 28.6% Annuities and other 18.0% 18.0% 61.9% 11.2% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Pension and other retirement benefit plan assets include ordinary shares issued by the Company with a fair value of 2 million 2005: 2 million.
v Summary m Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Present value of defined benefit obligations 758 497 Fair value of plan assets 836 508 Surplus 78 11 Experience losses arising on defined benefit plan liabilities: Amount 12 16 As a percentage of plan liabilities 1.6% 3.2% Experience gains arising on defined benefit plan assets: Amount 50 40 As a percentage of plan assets 6.0% 7.7% 42 Share-based payments i Share-based payment arrangements During the year ended 31 December 2006, the Group had the following share-based payment arrangements: Type of arrangement Description of award Contractual life Vesting conditions UK Sharesave Scheme Options, linked to a savings plan, Exercise period ends within Service over either a three over Old Mutual plc shares listed six months of vesting or five year period on the London Stock Exchange LSE UK Share Option Options over Old Mutual plc Six years Service over a three year period and Deferred Delivery Plan shares listed on the LSE and achievement of a target growth in European Embedded Value EEV earnings per share UK Restricted Share Plan Old Mutual plc restricted shares listed Three to five years Service over a three or five year period on the LSE.
A majority of employees are entitled to dividend payments throughout the vesting period South Africa Share Option Options over Old Mutual plc shares Six years Service over a three year period and and Deferred Delivery Plan listed on the JSE Securities Exchange achievement of a target growth in EEV South Africa JSE earnings per share South Africa Restricted Old Mutual plc restricted shares listed Five years Service over a three year period Share Plan on the JSE.
Employees are entitled to dividend payments throughout the vesting period OMSA Broad Based Old Mutual plc restricted shares listed Five years Earlier of five years, participant being Employee Share Plan on the JSE.
Employees are entitled to entitled to any other award under any dividend payments throughout the other share incentive scheme of the vesting period Company or death of the participant Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 42 Share-based payments continued ii Share-based payment arrangements continued During the year ended 31 December 2006, the Group had the following share-based payment arrangements: Type of arrangement Description of award Contractual life Vesting conditions OMSA Senior Black Old Mutual plc restricted shares listed Four to six years Service over four, five and six years Management Share Plan on the JSE.
Employees are entitled 1 3 becomes unrestricted after each to dividend payments throughout the of these time periods vesting period OMSA Management Incentive Old Mutual plc restricted shares listed Three years for restricted Service over a three year period Share Plan on the JSE and or options over shares and six years and achievement of a target Old Mutual plc shares listed on the for options growth in EEV earnings per share for JSE.
Employees are entitled to dividend options.
Service over a three year payments throughout the vesting period period for restricted shares on restricted shares Nedcor Group 1994 Employee Options over Nedbank Group Ltd Six years Service over a three and four year Share Incentive Scheme shares listed on the JSE period 1 2 vests after each of these time periods and in certain cases achievement of a target growth in earnings per share Nedbank Group 2005 Options over Nedbank Group Ltd The earlier of five years or Service over a three year period Employee Long Term shares listed on the JSE six to twelve months post Incentive Plan termination, depending on the manner of termination Nedbank Group 2005 Nedbank Group Ltd restricted shares Three years Three years service and achievement Employee Long Term listed on the JSE, matching of Nedbank Group Ltd performance Incentive Plan Matched contributions made by the participant.
Where the Nedbank Group Ltd Share Scheme Employees are not entitled to dividend performance target is not satisfied, payments throughout the vesting period 50% will vest provided that three years on the matched shares service has been achieved Nedbank Broad Based Nedbank Group Ltd restricted shares Five years Participants do not trade or otherwise Employee Scheme listed on the JSE.
Employees are deal or encumber awarded shares entitled to dividend payments for a period of five years throughout the vesting period Nedbank Black Executive Nedbank Group Ltd restricted shares Seven years Service over four, five and six years Scheme and Nedbank Black listed on the JSE and options over 1 3 vests after each of these time Management Scheme Nedbank Group Ltd shares listed on periods the JSE Nedbank Eyethu Options over restricted par value shares Six years Service over a six year period Non-Executive Share Trust in Nedbank Group Ltd issued to Non-Executive Directors Nedbank Corporate Scheme Options over restricted shares in Six years Client uses Nedbank as their primary Nedbank Group Ltd issued at par value.
Nedbank has right of first Participants are not entitled to dividend refusal over all banking requirements payments during the vesting period Nedbank Black Business Options over restricted shares in Ten years Expiry of the ten year period Partners Scheme Nedbank Group Ltd issued to black business partners whom are not entitled to dividend payments during the vesting period Nedbank Retail Scheme Participants are awarded one bonus Three years Client holds a Nedbank account as share for every three Nedbank Group Ltd their primary account for a period of shares purchased under the scheme three years NedNamibia Black Options over restricted shares in Ten years Expiry of the ten year period Business Partners Nedbank Group Ltd issued to black business partners who are entitled to dividend payments in the form of capitalisation shares during the vesting period Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 156 42 Share-based payments continued ii Share-based payment arrangements continued During the year ended 31 December 2006, the Group had the following share-based payment arrangements: Type of arrangement Description of award Contractual life Vesting conditions NedNamibia Affinity Groups Options over restricted shares in Ten years Expiry of the ten year period Nedbank Group Ltd issued at par value.
Participants are entitled to dividend payments in the form of capitalisation shares during the vesting period NedNamibia Education Trust Options over restricted shares in Ten years Expiry of the ten year period Nedbank Group Ltd issued at par value.
Participants are entitled to dividend payments in the form of capitalisation shares during the vesting period NedNamibia Black Nedbank Group Ltd restricted shares Seven years Service over four, five and six years Management Trust listed on the JSE and options over 1 3 vests after each of these time Nedbank Group Ltd shares listed on periods the JSE NedNamibia Broad Based Nedbank Group Ltd restricted shares Five years Expiry of the five year period Scheme listed on the JSE.
Employees are entitled to dividend payments throughout the vesting period Mutual & Federal Insurance Options over Mutual & Federal Six years Service over a three year period Company Limited Share Insurance Company Ltd shares listed Option Scheme on the JSE Mutual & Federal Senior Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd Seven years Service over four, five and six years Black Management Scheme restricted shares listed on the JSE 1 3 vests after each of these time and kept in a trust.
Employees are periods entitled to dividend payments throughout the vesting period Mutual & Federal Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd Six years Service over a three year period Management Incentive restricted shares listed on the JSE Scheme and kept in a trust.
Employees are entitled to dividend payments throughout the vesting period Mutual & Federal Distributor Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd Indefinite period Minimum period of ten years Scheme and Mutual & Federal restricted shares listed on the JSE Community Scheme Mutual & Federal Black Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd Ten years Expiry of the ten year period Business Partners Scheme restricted shares listed on the JSE issues to black business partners whom are not entitled to dividend payments during the vesting period Mutual & Federal Broad Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd Five years No service or other vesting conditions.
Based Employee Scheme restricted shares listed on the JSE Shares are to be restricted in the and kept in a trust for a minimum period trust for five years only of 5 years.
Employees are entitled to dividend payments throughout the vesting period Mutual & Federal Insurance Options over Mutual & Federal Six years Service over a three year period Company Namibia Limited Insurance Company Ltd shares listed Share Option Scheme on the JSE Mutual & Federal Namibia Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd Seven years Service over four, five and six years Senior Black Management restricted shares listed on the JSE 1 3 vests after each of these time Scheme and kept in a trust.
Employees are periods entitled to dividend payments throughout the vesting period Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 42 Share-based payments continued ii share-based payment arrangements continued During the year ended 31 December 2006, the Group had the following share-based payment arrangements: Type of arrangement Description of award Contractual life Vesting conditions Mutual & Federal Namibia Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd Indefinite period Minimum period of ten years Community Scheme restricted shares listed on the JSE Mutual & Federal Namibia Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd Ten years Expiry of the ten year period Black Business Partners restricted shares listed on the Scheme JSE, issued to black business partners whom are not entitled to dividend payments during the vesting period Mutual & Federal Namibia Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd Six years Service over a three year period Management Incentive restricted shares listed on the JSE Scheme and kept in a trust.
Employees are entitled to dividend payments throughout the vesting period.
Options over Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd shares listed on the JSE Mutual & Federal Namibia Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd Five years No service or other vesting conditions.
Broad Based Employee restricted shares listed on the JSE Shares are to be restricted in the trust Scheme and kept in a trust for a minimum period for five years only of five years.
Employees are entitled to dividend payments throughout the vesting period Mutual & Federal Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd Indefinite period Minimum period of ten years Discretionary Trust restricted shares listed on the JSE All of the above share-based payment arrangements are equity settled with the exception of the South Africa Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan and the South Africa Restricted Share Plan denoted with above, which are cash settled share-based payment arrangements.
ii Reconciliation of movements in options The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options is as follows: Weighted Weighted No of average No of average options exercise price options exercise price Options over shares in Old Mutual plc London Stock Exchange 2006 2006 2005 2005 Outstanding at beginning of the year 38,512,802 0.9247,491,175 0.90 Granted during the year 3,023,519 1.814,674,807 1.22 Forfeited during the year 1,422,453 1.03 8,319,080 0.95 Exercised during the year 11,279,079 0.85 5,266,780 0.91 Expired during the year 70,893 1.08 67,320 1.06 Outstanding at end of the year 28,763,896 1.0438,512,802 0.92 Exercisable at end of the year 12,746,176 0.925,208,138 1.00 The options outstanding at 31 December 2006 have an exercise price in the range of 0.60 to 1.99 2005: 0.59 to 1.36 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.8 years 2005: 3.8 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was 1.83 2005: 1.36.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 158 42 Share-based payments continued ii Reconciliation of movements in options continued Weighted Weighted No of average No of average options exercise price options exercise price Options over shares in Old Mutual plc JSE 2006 2006 2005 2005 Outstanding at beginning of the year 64,978,907 R14.1373,645,237 R14.27 Granted during the year 8,733,523 R21.8113,790,175 R14.60 Forfeited during the year 1,115,896 R15.24 5,563,431 R14.03 Exercised during the year 33,584,977 R14.47 3,511,576 R14.30 Expired during the year 1,921,429 R20.16 13,381,498 R15.39 Outstanding at end of the year 37,090,128 R15.4764,978,907 R14.13 Exerciseable at end of the year 5,277,087 R14.8623,941,600 R17.07 The options outstanding at 31 December 2006 have an exercise price in the range of R10.80 to R24.78 2005: R10.80 to R22.98 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.7 years 2005: 3.3 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R21.24 2005: R17.00.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options is as follows: Weighted Weighted No of average No of average options exercise price options exercise price Options over shares in Nedbank Group Ltd 2006 2006 2005 2005 Outstanding at beginning of the year 43,557,432 R102.8028,905,173 R90.10 Granted during the year 8,435,773 R117.71 28,099,728 R112.80 Forfeited during the year 2,367,175 R83.27 5,198,890 R96.00 Exercised during the year 2,429,160 R80.20 3,099,459 R61.51 Expired during the year 4,555,471 R96.54 5,149,120 R118.70 Outstanding at end of the year 42,641,399 R108.04 43,557,432 R102.80 Exerciseable at end of the year 3,645,448 R101.40 4,415,111 R102.50 Weighted Weighted No of average No of average options exercise price options exercise price Options over shares in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd 2006 2006 2005 2005 Outstanding at beginning of the year 7,783,050 R18.24 5,111,300 R12.32 Granted during the year 1,873,200 R24.30 4,038,950 R22.76 Forfeited during the year 504,550 R20.78 152,000 R16.24 Exercised during the year 1,917,700 R7.57 1,215,200 R8.49 Outstanding at end of the year 7,234,000 R18.84 7,783,050 R18.24 Exerciseable at end of the year 903,400 R4.17 409,067 R7.90 iii Measurements and assumptions The recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have only been applied to equity settled share arrangements granted post November 2002 in accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1 and IFRS 2.
Any options forfeited, exercised or lapsed prior to the IFRS 2 implementation date of 1 January 2005 have not been included in the IFRS 2 valuation.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of share options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Share options are granted under a service and non-market based performance condition.
Such conditions are not taken into account in the grant date fair value measurement of the share options granted.
There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants.
The grant date for the UK and SA Share Option and Deferred Delivery plan annual awards is deemed to be 1 January in the year prior to the date of issue.
As such the Group is required to estimate, at the reporting date, the number and fair value of the options that will be granted in the following year.
The fair value of awards expected to be granted in 2007 which will have an IFRS 2 grant date of 1 January 2006, is shown separately below.
The grant date for all other awards is the award issue date.
The expected volatility is based on the annualised historic volatility of the share price over a period commensurate with the expected option life, ending on the date of valuation of the option.
The expected life assumption is based on the average length of time similar grants have remained outstanding in the past and the type of employees to which awards have been granted.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 160 42 Share-based payments continued v Share-based payment arrangements relating to Skandia The Company acquired a controlling shareholding in Skandia on 26 January 2006.
As at that date, there were 25,725,421 options oustanding over Skandia shares, as a result of employee stock option programmes approved at Skandia's Annual General Meetings.
Options under these programmes vested after the completion of either one or three years service and had a contractual life of either three years and three months or seven years.
All options were equity settled, with the exception of synthetic stock options offered to employees in certain countries, which were cash settled.
Option holders were not entitled to dividend payments during the vesting period.
Upon the Company's acquisition of its controlling shareholding in Skandia, all outstanding options became vested and had a revised expiry date of 26 July 2006.
The following table presents a reconciliation of movement in options over shares in Skandia from the date of acquisition: Weighted No of average options exercise price Options over shares in Skandia 2006 2006 Outstanding at 26 January 2006 25,725,421 80.79kr Exercised during the year 5,608,888 20.33kr Expired during the year 20,116,533 97.65kr Outstanding at end of the year vi Restricted share plans The following summarises the fair value of restricted shares granted by the Group during the year: Weighted Number average granted fair value UK Restricted Share Plan 2006 5,358,703 1.92 2005 5,741,936 1.24 SA Restricted Share Plan 2006 2005 6,065,901 R14.50 OMSA Broad Based Employee Share Plan 2006 2005 5,744,888 R15.37 OMSA Senior Black Management Share Plan 2006 2,355,480 R23.30 2005 14,542,244 R15.42 OMSA Management Incentive Share Plan 2006 4,788,114 R21.69 2005 174,729 R15.43 Nedbank Group 2005 Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006 153,960 R114.45 Matched Share Scheme 2005 327,025 R71.07 Nedbank Eyethu Black Executive Trust 2006 73,726 R115.15 2005 168,000 R79.31 Nedbank Eyethu Broad Based Scheme 2006 2005 1,451,400 R87.90 Nedbank Eyethu Black Management Trust 2006 75,968 R112.96 2005 302,983 R79.31 Nedbank Eyethu Retail Scheme 2006 979,726 R99.85 2005 459,382 R86.14 NedNamibia Black Management Trust 2006 17,396 R124.70 2005 NedNamibia Broad Based Scheme 2006 39,816 R124.70 2005 Mutual & Federal Senior Black Management Trust 2006 107,550 R24.89 2005 232,344 R24.69 Mutual & Federal Management Incentive Scheme 2006 428,510 R24.43 2005 983,225 R24.69 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 42 Share-based payments continued vi Restricted share plans continued The following describes the fair value of restricted shares granted by the Group during the year: Weighted Number average granted fair value Mutual & Federal Broad Based Employee Scheme 2006 2005 751,100 R24.50 Mutual & Federal Distributor Scheme 2006 2005 1,394,291 R24.50 Mutual & Federal Community Scheme 2006 2005 1,394,291 R24.50 Mutual & Federal Black Business Partners Scheme 2006 3,259,081 R34.25 2005 11,332,443 R24.50 Mutual & Federal Namibia Broad Based Employee Scheme 2006 23,895 R29.40 2005 Mutual & Federal Namibia Black Business Partners Scheme 2006 248,590 R29.40 2005 Mutual & Federal Namibia Community Scheme 2006 92,070 R29.40 2005 Mutual & Federal Discretionary Trust 2006 108,864 R29.40 2005 The share price at measurement date was used to determine the fair value of the restricted shares.
Expected dividends were not incorporated into the measurement of fair value where the holder of the restricted share is entitled to dividends throughout the vesting period.
vii Annual bonus awards The UK and South Africa Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plans give rise to annual bonus awards.
The level of annual bonus awards is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of individual and Company performance targets, measured over the financial year prior to the date the employees receive the award.
The grant date for the SA and UK annual bonus plans other than the new joiner and newly qualified grants has therefore been determined as 1 January in the year prior to the date of issue of the grants.
The Group anticipates awards under the South African scheme of 8,808,000 options and 4,980,000 restriced shares.
The options have been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, using an at the money option assumption.
The restricted shares have been valued using a share price of R23.90.
The Group estimate of the total fair value of the annual bonus expected to be paid in the form of options and restricted shares under the UK Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan is outlined below.
The fair value is determined by making an estimate of the level of bonus to be paid out following the attainment of personal and Company performance conditions.
Total fair value Vesting period UK Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan restricted shares 3,521,169 4.2 years UK Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan options 555,932 4.2 years m Year to Year to 31 December 31 December Financial impact 2006 2005 Expense arising from equity settled share and share option plans 32 38 Expense arising from cash settled share and share option plans 25 13 57 51 Closing balance of liability for cash settled share awards 36 42 Total intrinsic value liability for vested benefits 21 23 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 162 43 Dividends Dividends paid were as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Notes 2006 2005 2004 Final dividend paid 3.5p per 10p share 118 2005 Interim dividend paid 1.85p per 10p share 66 2005 Final dividend paid 3.65p per 10p share 174 2006 Interim dividend paid 2.1p per 10p share 108 Dividends to ordinary equity holders 282 184 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 38 ii 39 Dividend payments for the year 321 184 Dividends paid to ordinary equity holders, as above, are calculated using the number of shares in issue at the record date, less treasury shares held in ESOP trusts, life funds of Group companies, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and related undertakings.
As a consequence of the exchange control arrangements in place in certain African territories, dividends to ordinary equity holders on the branch registers of those countries or, in the case of Namibia, the Namibian section of the principal register are settled through Dividend Access Trusts established for that purpose.
The directors have declared a 2006 final dividend of 4.15p per share, which will be paid on 31 May 2007 to all ordinary equity holders on the register at the close of business on 11 May 2007, being the record date for the dividend.
No provision has been recognised in respect of this dividend.
In March and November 2006, 22 million and 17 million respectively were declared and paid to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 31 December 2005: nil.
44 Contingent liabilities m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 1,115 1,016 Irrevocable letters of credit 334 756 Secured lending 1,440 1,528 Other contingent liabilities 213 110 Nedbank structured financing Historically a number of the Groups South Africa banking businesses entered into structured finance transactions with third parties using the tax base of these companies.
Pursuant to the terms of the majority of these transactions, the underlying third party has contractually agreed to accept the risk of any tax being imposed by the South African Revenue Service SARS, although the obligation to pay in the first instance rests with the Groups companies.
It is only in limited cases where, for example, the credit quality of a client becomes doubtful, or where the client has specifically contracted out of the re-pricing of additional taxes, that the recovery from a client could be less than the liability that could arise on assessment, in which case provisions are made.
SARS has examined the tax aspects of some of these types of structures and SARS could assess these structures in a manner different to that initially envisaged by the contracting parties.
As a result Group companies could be obliged to pay additional amounts to SARS and recover these from clients under the applicable contractual arrangements.
Skandia Liv Skandia Liv has submitted claims to Skandia totalling SEK 3.2 billion relating to compensation for alleged prohibited profit distributions.
These distributions relate to the sale of Skandia Livs asset management business by Skandia to Den Norske Bank in 2002.
The dispute is in arbitration, a ruling is expected in 2007 or 2008.
American Skandia The sale of American Skandia to Prudential Financial contained representation and warranties.
Indemnity in respect of this is limited to US$1 billion.
Investor class actions and investigations by various US regulators have given rise to potential settlements and claims.
These principally relate to market timing and annuitisation.
American Skandias potential exposure to market timing is part of a wider investigation of the US industry.
Annuitisation claims relate to administrative errors made by the American Skandia business between 1996 and 2003.
Prudential Financial asserts that these have given rise to subsequent compensation claims from affected customers.
Skandia Liv and American Skandia have been provided for in the acquisition accounting.
Further details of the Groups provision are disclosed in note 34.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 45 Commitments Capital commitments The Groups capital commitments are detailed in the table below.
The Groups management is confident that future net revenues and funding will be sufficient to cover these commitments.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Investment property 1 Property and equipment 42 52 The following table presents the contractual amounts of the Groups off-balance sheet financial instruments that commit it to extend credit to customers.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Original term to maturity of one term or less 1,372 1,218 Original term to maturity of more than one year 52 6 Other commitments, note issuance facilities and revolving underwriting facilities 261 92 Assets are pledged as collateral under repurchase agreements with other banks and for security deposits relating to local futures, options and stock exchange memberships.
Mandatory reserve deposits are also held with local Central Banks in accordance with statutory requirements.
These deposits are not available to finance the Groups day-to-day operations.
46 Related parties The Group provides certain pension fund, insurance, banking and financial services to related parties.
These are conducted on an arms length basis and are not material to the Groups results.
i Transactions with key management personnel, remuneration and other compensation Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any director whether executive or otherwise of the Group.
Details of the compensation paid to the Board of directors as well as their shareholdings in the Company are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 60 to 69. ii Key management personnel remuneration and other compensation 2006 2005 Number of Value Number of Value personnel 000s personnel 000s Directors fees 11 963 9 836 Remuneration 13,533 9,228 Cash remuneration 15 9,022 9 5,969 Short-term employee benefits 17 865 8 541 Other long-term benefits 15 849 8 448 Share-based payments 11 2,797 9 2,270 14,496 10,064 2006 2005 Number of Number of Number of options shares Number of options shares personnel 000s personnel 000s Share options Outstanding at beginning of the year 9 16,061 9 17,018 New appointments 4 2,366 Granted during the year 7 1,104 6 1,442 Exercised during the year 10 3,313 2 27 Lapsed during the year 3 760 6 2,372 Outstanding at end of the year 11 15,458 9 16,061 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 164 46 Related parties continued ii Key management personnel remuneration and other compensation continued 2006 2005 Number of Number of Number of options shares Number of options shares personnel 000s personnel 000s Restricted shares Outstanding at beginning of the year 8 2,603 6 1,485 New appointments 5 183 Granted during the year 11 1,942 8 1,457 Released during the year 3 471 3 231 Lapsed during the year 2 108 Outstanding at end of the year 13 4,257 8 2,603 iii Key management personnel transactions Key management personnel and members of their close family have undertaken transactions with Old Mutual plc and its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings in the normal course of business, details of which are given below.
For current accounts positive values indicate assets of the individual whilst for credit cards and mortgages positive values indicate liabilities of the individual.
2006 2005 Number of Value Number of Value personnel 000s personnel 000s Current accounts Balance at beginning of the year 2 116 3 40 Net movement during the year 2,415 156 Foreign exchange movement 24 Balance at end of the year 7 2,323 2 116 Retired during year: balance at time of retirement 1 30 Credit cards Balance at beginning of the year 28 2 5 Net movement during the year 6 3 Foreign exchange movement 2 Balance at end of the year 412 2 8 Mortgages Balance at beginning of the year 179 1 87 Net movement during the year 1,943 Interest charged 93 7 Less repayments 299 15 Foreign exchange movement 173 Balance at end of the year 5 1,643 1 79 General insurance contracts Total premium paid during the year 525 5 17 Claims paid during the year 13 Life insurance products Total premium paid during the year 2 2 Total sum assured value of investment at end of the year 7 1,927 2 1,454 Pensions, termination benefits paid Value of pension plan as at end of the year 12 8,501 8 4,322 Various members of key management personnel hold, and or have at various times during the year held, investments managed by asset management businesses of the Group.
These include unit trusts, mutual funds and hedge funds.
None of the amounts concerned are material in the context of the funds managed by the Group business concerned, and all of the investments have been made by the individuals concerned either on terms which are the same as those available to external clients generally or, where that is not the case, on the same preferential terms as were available to employees of the business generally.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 46 Related parties continued iv Skandia Liv  Skandia publ Skandia Liv, is a related party to the Old Mutual Group.
Skandia Liv is a wholly owned subsidiary of Skandia and its business is conducted on a mutual basis.
For the reasons given in the accounting policies Skandia Livs result is not consolidated in these financial statements.
Material transactions between the Group and the Skandia Liv Group in eleven months ended 31 December 2006 were as follows: 1 Agreement in principle and framework agreement on co-operation covering market-related functions and certain staff functions this involves distribution and distribution support, customer service, market communication, administration of Group insurance products, and staff and service functions.
In the eleven months ended 31 December 2006 Skandia Liv paid 104 million for services rendered under this agreement.
2 Joint occupational pensions the Group and Skandia Liv have a joint occupational pensions concept that is administered by Skandia Liv, which pays all distribution costs.
For the part that is invested in the Groups unit linked funds, Skandia Liv receives compensation from the Group, based on premiums and funds under management paid over the life of the insurance contracts.
The Group paid Skandia Liv 17 million under this arrangement in the eleven months to 31 December 2006.
3 Premises the Group rents office premises from Skandia Liv.
The Group paid market rents of 13 million for these premises in the eleven months to 31 December 2006.
4 Occupational pensions Skandia Liv provides occupational pensions for the employees of the Group, for which the Group paid 12 million in the eleven months to 31 December 2006.
5 Agreement on IT services the Group provides IT services to Skandia Liv.
The amount charged to Skandia Liv was 7 million in the eleven months to 31 December 2006.
The balance outstanding at 31 December 2006 due from Skandia Liv was 37 million.
Various other arrangements exist between the Group and Skandia Liv, principally in respect of provision of accounting, legal and treasury functions, all of which are transacted on an arms length basis.
v AKA Capital Pty Ltd A Group subsidiary, Nedbank Ltd, sold its 20% interest in Aka Capital Proprietary Limited Aka Capital at arms length, in August 2006, to the other existing Aka Capital shareholders.
These included Mr RJ Khoza, who is a non-executive director of Old Mutual plc, who acquired an additional 4.2% of Aka Capital through a special purpose vehicle SPV for R11.0 million.
Nedbank Ltds Capital Investment Committee approved this transaction in line with its mandate in the normal course of business.
The funding for the acquisition by Mr Khozas SPV was financed by Nedbank Ltd on arms length terms, with R11.4 million of such funding being outstanding at year-end.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 166 47 Principal subsidiaries and Group enterprises The following table lists the principal Group undertakings whose results are included in the consolidated financial statements.
All shares held are ordinary shares and, except for OM Group UK Ltd, are held indirectly by the Company.
Percentage Name Nature of business holding Country of incorporation Old Mutual South Africa Ltd Holding company 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Ltd Life assurance 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Life Assurance Company Namibia Ltd Life assurance 100 Namibia Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa Pty Ltd Asset management 100 Republic of South Africa Nedbank Group Ltd Banking 58 Republic of South Africa Nedbank Ltd Banking 58 Republic of South Africa Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd General insurance 85 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc Holding company 100 Delaware, United States of America Old Mutual U. S. Life Holdings, Inc Holding company 100 Delaware, United States of America OM Financial Life Insurance Company Life assurance 100 Maryland, United States of America Old Mutual Bermuda Ltd Life assurance 100 Bermuda Dwight Asset Management Company Asset management 100 Delaware, United States of America Acadian Asset Management Asset management 100 Massachusetts, United States of America Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss, Inc Asset management 100 Nevada, United States of America OM Group UK Ltd Holding company 100 England and Wales Skandia Life Assurance Company Ltd Life assurance 99 Sweden  Skandia Life assurance 99 Sweden SkandiaBanken AB Banking 99 Sweden Formerly Old Mutual Asset Managers South Africa Pty Ltd Formerly Fidelity and Guaranty Life Insurance Company A complete list of subsidiaries is filed with the UK Registrar of Companies with the annual return.
All the above companies have a year-end of 31 December.
48 Financial risk The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets, financial liabilities investment contracts, customer deposits and borrowings, reinsurance assets and insurance liabilities.
The key focus of financial risk management for the Group is ensuring that the proceeds from its financial assets are sufficient to fund the obligations arising from its insurance and investment contracts and banking operations.
The most important components of financial risk are equity price risk, credit risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
These risks arise from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements and or conditions.
a Financial Risk Management strategy and policy Overview The Old Mutual Group operates an Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework containing the following components: a robust risk governance structure: risk appetites established at Group and subsidiary level: Group-wide risk policies: and methodologies that focus on risk identification, risk measurement, risk assessment, action plans, monitoring and reporting.
Group risk principles have been established for each major risk category to which the Group is exposed.
These are designed to provide management teams across the Group with guiding principles within which to manage risks.
Business unit risk policies expand on these principles and contain detailed requirements and or limits for the specific business unit concerned.
Further details regarding the ERM framework and risk governance procedures are contained in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 46 to 59 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups exposure to financial risk varies according to the nature of its operations and its location.
Consequently the Groups policy is to manage financial risk separately through its principal operations subject to appropriate central corporate monitoring.
The Groups principal operations that incur significant financial risk are: Old Mutual plc Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa OMLAC SA Old Mutual US Life OMUSL Skandia, through its unit-linked assurance operations Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd Mutual & Federal Nedbank Group Nedbank SkandiaBanken Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 167 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 48 Financial risk continued a Financial Risk Management strategy and policy continued Overview continued The Groups asset management businesses are exposed to financial risk due to the impact of market fluctuations on revenue levels, which are a function of the value of client portfolios.
This exposure is reduced through asset class and product diversification.
Investment risk is borne principally by the client.
These asset management operations, and other long-term insurance operations in the rest of Africa do not give rise to significant financial risks relative to the Group as a whole.
i Old Mutual plc The principal financial risks Old Mutual plc faces, other than those that it is exposed to via its operating entities, relate to credit risk, liquidity risk and currency risk.
Credit risk arises primarily as a result of the exposure to financial institutions with which Old Mutual plc has deposited surplus cash or entered into other financial arrangements, such as forward foreign exchange transactions or interest rate derivatives.
The Old Mutual plc Board controls this risk by setting limits on the level of exposure to individual counterparties.
Liquidity risk is the risk that Old Mutual plc may not be able to pay obligations when due, or provide capital to its subsidiaries when required.
Old Mutual plc mitigates this risk by ensuring it maintains liquid assets and or committed finance facilities sufficient to meet its expected needs.
In terms of currency risk, the principal exposure arises from the fact that the Groups presentational currency is GBP, whereas the functional currencies of its principal operations are South African Rand, US Dollar, Euro and Swedish Krona.
Old Mutual plc seeks to reduce currency fluctuations by hedging a proportion of the currency translation risk of its net investments in its foreign subsidiaries and anticipated cash flows through currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The hedging relationships which qualify for hedge accounting are classified as either cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
Certain transactions undertaken as hedges did not qualify for hedge accounting.
Fair value movements for these derivatives are accounted for in the income statement.
ii Nedbank Nedbank incurs credit and market and liquidity risk by accepting deposits from customers at both fixed and floating rates and for various periods and seeks to earn above average interest margins by consolidating them and investing in a range of assets, often for longer periods, whilst maintaining sufficient liquidity to meet all claims that might fall due.
Nedbank also incurs credit exposures as a result of entering into guarantees and other commitments such as letters of credit and performance, and other bonds.
Nedbank also trades in financial instruments, taking positions in traded and over the counter instruments including derivatives, in order to take advantage of short-term market movements in equity, bond, currency, interest rate and commodity prices.
Nedbanks Board controls this risk by placing trading limits on the level of exposure that can be taken in relation to both overnight and intra-day market positions.
With the exception of specific hedging arrangements, foreign exchange and interest rate exposures associated with these derivatives are generally offset by entering into counterbalancing positions, thereby controlling the variability in the net cash amounts required to liquidate market positions.
Asset and liability management is conducted within a formal structure.
The Nedbank Asset & Liability Management function provides support to the Nedbank Asset and Liability Committee ALCO and Executive Risk Committee EXCO in the management of interest rate risk, liquidity risk and currency translation risk, providing the necessary strategic support including risk based modelling, analysis, management information and strategic recommendations.
This structure is not heavily reliant on trading securities and derivatives, but focuses on using on-balance sheet mechanisms.
iii SkandiaBanken SkandiaBanken incurs credit risk as a result of lending to corporate and individual customers.
SkandiaBankens credit exposures are well diversified over its customer base, mainly in mortgage and vehicle loan finance.
SkandiaBanken is also exposed to interest rate risk by borrowing from and lending to customers at both fixed and floating rates and for various periods.
This risk is managed by a combination of utilisation of short-term interest rates and, interest rate swap agreements.
iv OMLAC SA, OMUSL, Skandia and M&F insurance operations OMLAC SA, OMUSL, Skandia and M&F manage their financial risks using Asset Liability Management ALM frameworks aimed at matching assets to the liabilities arising from insurance and investment contracts by reference to the type of benefits payable to policyholders, as well as seeking to maximise the return on shareholders funds, all within an acceptable risk framework.
The insurance operations retain substantial exposures to the extent that the benefits payable to policyholders are not linked to the performance of the underlying assets and or policyholders enjoy options embedded in their contracts which are not matched by identical options in the underlying investments.
These exposures include duration risk, credit risk and market risk.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 168 48 Financial risk continued b Capital adequacy OMLAC SA, OMUSL, Skandia and other long-term business operations The UK Financial Reporting Standard 27 Life Assurance FRS 27 requires UK based insurers preparing financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice to comply with certain provisions relating to the disclosure of information on the capital adequacy of the Groups life insurance operations.
The Group chooses to provide these disclosures despite not being required under IFRS.
The capital position of the Groups life businesses, based on latest estimates, is summarised as follows: m At 31 December 2006 At 31 December 2005 South United South United Africa States Europe Africa States Europe Equity shareholders funds 4,077 1,253 2,997 4,241 1,299 Adjustments to a regulatory basis: Inadmissible assets 22 140 897 34 66 Other adjustments 857 704 1,156 912 746 Total available capital resources 3,198 409 944 3,295 487 Total capital requirements local regulatory basis 872 185 249 1,081 196 Overall excess of capital resources over requirements 2,326 224 695 2,214 291 m At 31 December 2006 At 31 December 2005 South United South United Africa States Europe Africa States Europe Capital position at 1 January 3,295 487 2,713 457 Earnings after tax 1,010 61 26 1,045 100 Change in admissible assets and other adjustments 181 165 30 293 1 Additions from business combinations 991 New capital 85 81 Dividends 230 192 Foreign exchange movements 696 59 9 22 50 Capital position at 31 December 3,198 409 944 3,295 487 South Africa The amounts disclosed above represent the capital position of OMLAC SA and the life business in Namibia and Old Mutual International, based in Guernsey.
The calculations are determined in accordance with the requirements of the South African Financial Services Board and on the basis of the Guernsey regulatory requirements, using reliable estimates of the regulatory adjustments, as the relevant regulatory returns have yet to be completed.
At 31 December 2006, OMLAC SA s excess assets was 3.7 times 2005: 2.8 times-final the Statutory Capital Adequacy Requirement SCAR, after allowing for reliable estimates of statutory limitations on the value of certain assets.
The statutory solvency requirement for Namibia is N$4 million 0.3 million 2005: N$4 million 0.4 million.
The calculations have been determined on the South African statutory basis which is more prudent than the statutory basis in Namibia.
OMLAC SA s equity shareholders funds include its investments in Nedbank 1,521 million 2005: 1,377 million and Mutual & Federal 457 million 2005: 514 million.
In addition, 506 million 2005: 294 million is invested in the Groups loan notes and 475 million 2005: 514 million is held in inter-company loans.
All inter-company loans are immediately repayable and subject to commercial terms and conditions, with the exception that interest may be waived in certain circumstances.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the shareholders fund, maintaining the minimum statutory capital adequacy requirement and foreign exchange controls, as determined by the South African Reserve Bank.
United States In the case of OMUSL, the amounts disclosed above represent the consolidated capital position of the OMUSL Group of companies, including Old Mutual Financial Life Insurance Company, Old Mutual Financial Life Insurance Company of New York, OMNIA Life Insurance Company, Americom Life & Annuity Insurance Company, OMNIA Bermuda Limited and Old Mutual Reassurance Ireland Limited.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of local regulatory requirements for the United States, Bermuda and Ireland accordingly.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the entities and the requirement to maintain the minimum statutory capital requirements.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 169 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 48 Financial risk continued b Capital adequacy OMLAC SA, OMUSL, Skandia and other long-term business operations continued Europe In the case of Skandia, the amounts disclosed above represent the consolidated capital position of Skandias unit-linked assurance operations in the United Kingdom, Scandinavia and Continental Europe.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of local regulatory requirements for the territories in question.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the shareholders fund and maintaining the minimum statutory capital adequacy requirements for the territories in question.
Capital management policies Capital is actively managed to ensure that the Group is properly capitalised and funded at all times, having regard to its regulatory needs, prudent management and the interests of all stakeholders.
The Group has a business planning process that runs on an annual cycle with regular updates to projections.
It is through this process, which includes risk and sensitivity analyses of forecasts, and the operations of the Group Capital Management Committee GCMC, that the operating businesses gain approval from the Old Mutual plc Board for their requests for capital.
The GCMC is a sub-committee of the Executive Committee of the Board, established to set an appropriate framework and guidelines to ensure the appropriate management of capital, to allocate capital to the various businesses, and to monitor return on allocated capital for each business relative to the agreed hurdle rate.
The GCMC comprises the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Old Mutual plc together with certain executives drawn from Old Mutual plc and or one or more subsidiaries.
Meetings are held as circumstances require and are the body through which requests for capital are submitted outside the business plans.
In terms of general policy, each regulated business is required to hold, as a minimum, capital sufficient to meet the requirements of any applicable regulator in respect of its business in the jurisdictions in which it operates, together with such additional capital as management believes is necessary to ensure that obligations to policyholders and or clients can always be met on a timely basis.
In addition, Old Mutual plc ensures that it can meet its expected capital and financing needs at all times, having regard to the Groups business plans, forecasts and any strategic initiatives.
From 1 January 2005, the Group became subject to the UK Financial Services Authoritys Group capital adequacy requirements, established following introduction of the EU Financial Groups Directive.
Management regularly monitors the capital requirements of the Group, taking account of future balance sheet growth, profitability, projected dividend payments and any anticipated regulatory changes, in order to ensure that the Group is at all times able to meet the forecast future minimum capital requirements.
Sensitivities The Group has both qualitative and quantitative risk management procedures to monitor, at the individual Company and Group levels, the key risks and sensitivities of the business.
This is achieved through stress tests, scenario analyses and individual risk assessments by the operating businesses.
From an understanding of the principal risks, the Group defines appropriate risk limits and controls.
The key risks affecting the surplus capital of the Group are Market Risk, Credit Risk, Underwriting Risks and Business Risks.
For further details of specific financial risks, refer to relevant sections of this note.
c Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not be able to pay amounts in full when due in accordance with the terms of a contract.
i Nedbank Credit risk is the most significant risk type facing Nedbank, accounting for over 70% of its economic capital requirements and arises from its core business of lending.
Credit Risk Management Framework Nedbanks credit risk is managed in terms of its Credit Risk Management Framework CRF, which encompasses comprehensive credit policy, mandate limits and governance structures, and is approved by the Nedbank Board.
Divisional credit committees, with chairmen independent of the business units, operate for all major business units across Nedbank.
Those committees are responsible for approving and recommending credit and credit policy, as well as reviewing credit portfolios and impairments.
In addition, an independent Credit Risk Monitoring Unit CRM which champions the ongoing enhancement of credit risk management across Nedbank, is responsible for monitoring compliance with the CRF and reporting to executive management, the divisional credit committees and the Nedbank Boards Credit Committee, on a regular basis.
The CRM unit is responsible for the Basel II  IRB methodology and the related independent validation requirements.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 170 48 Financial risk continued c Credit risk continued Credit Risk Management Framework continued In each of the business clusters, credit risk management functions operate independently of credit origination, reporting into the cluster head of risk, who in turn report to the cluster managing director.
In line with the IRB methodology, centres of excellence in the form of cluster credit labs are responsible for the ongoing design, implementation, validation and performance of their clusters internal rating systems, with input and oversight by the central Nedbank credit ratings function.
To manage and optimise Nedbanks credit portfolios and credit concentration risk, a Credit Portfolio Management Unit, which forms part of Nedbanks capital management division, provides credit economic capital or credit value-at-risk and other key inputs e. g. financial risk aggregation and analysis to capital management.
It also has an indirect reporting line into CRM and assists with the establishment of sophisticated credit portfolio management within the three cluster credit labs discussed above.
The credit portfolio model, which is run on a monthly basis, covers all the business units in Nedbank, both retail and wholesale, as well as domestic and international.
Credit risk methodology and measurement The IRB credit methodology is in place or being implemented for all material credit portfolios.
Under this methodology, credit risk is essentially measured by two key components: Expected Loss EL, which is the estimated, annual average level of credit losses through a full credit cycle: and Unexpected Loss UL, which is the annual volatility of expected losses for credit.
EL and UL are defined as the average and standard deviation of the distribution of potential losses inherent in the banks credit portfolio.
Credit risk economic capital is calculated using credit portfolio modelling based on the volatility of expected losses.
These estimated losses are given by the key credit risk parameters Probability of Default, Exposure at Default, Loss Given Default and Maturity.
The credit risk economic capital is derived by taking portfolio concentrations and diversifications into account.
Lending portfolio Nedbanks lending portfolio forms the substantial part of the Groups loans, receivables and advances analysis, shown in note 25 on page 139. ii Life and general insurance operations OMLAC SA, OMUSL, Skandia and Mutual & Federal are principally exposed to credit risk through their investment holdings backing their policyholder liabilities and shareholders funds together with amounts due from policyholders, intermediaries and reinsurers.
None of the life assurance operations cedes significant risk through reinsurance and any policyholder loans are secured on the surrender value of the policyholders policies.
In all cases, credit risk is managed by placing limits on exposure to a single counterparty, or groups of counterparties, and to geographical and industry segments.
Credit risk is monitored with reference to established credit rating agencies with limits placed on exposure to below investment grade holdings.
The following tables analyse the credit rating Standard & Poors or equivalent by investment grade of financial assets bearing credit risk: South Africa Other m Not Not subject to subject to OMLAC SA AAA to A BBB to B Not rated credit risk AAA to A Not rated credit risk Total At 31 December 2006 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 4,418 46 3,038 14,614 1 31 22,148 Financial assets 4,418 46 3,038 14,614 1 31 22,148 At 31 December 2005 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 6,313 89 1,681 17,061 12 944 26,100 Placements with other banks 261 26 287 Financial assets 6,313 89 1,942 17,061 12 26 944 26,387 Placements with other banks are not themselves rated, but represent deposits with AAA to A financial institutions.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 171 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 48 Financial risk continued c Credit risk continued ii Life and general insurance operations continued m Not subject to OMUSL AAA to A BBB to B CCC to C Not rated credit risk Total At 31 December 2006 Available-for-sale investments 5,595 3,143 254 1,657 10,649 Short-term securities 943 35 978 Other categories 5 122 41 168 Financial assets 6,543 3,143 254 1,814 41 11,795 At 31 December 2005 Available-for-sale investments 6,201 4,424 440 156 11,221 Short-term securities 376 6 382 Other categories 35 68 31 134 Financial assets 6,612 4,424 514 187 11,737 m Not subject to Skandia AAA to A BBB to B Not rated credit risk Total At 31 December 2006 Other loans and receivables 3,747 3,747 Available-for-sale investments 143 112 255 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 386 60 40,499 40,945 Short-term securities 122 77 199 Placements with other banks 515 40 555 Financial assets 1,166 60 44,475 45,701 m Not subject to Mutual & Federal AAA to A BBB to B Not rated credit risk Total At 31 December 2006 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 127 5 86 218 Short-term securities 101 36 137 Placements with other banks 46 9 55 Financial assets 274 5 9 122 410 At 31 December 2005 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 132 102 133 367 Short-term securities 144 144 Placements with other banks 184 184 Financial assets 132 246 184 133 695 In all tables above, Not subject to credit risk principally comprises equity investments.
Placements with other banks are not themselves rated, but represent deposits with AAA to A financial institutions.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 172 48 Financial risk continued d Market risk Market risk is the potential impact on earnings of unfavourable changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, prices, market volatilities and liquidity.
Market risk includes trading risk, derivative instruments used for hedging risk in non-trading portfolios, investment risk, exchange rate risk and interest rate risk in the banking book.
Investment risk arises from changes in the fair value of investments and includes private equity, property and strategic investments.
i Nedbank Market risk in Nedbank arises from three main activities: Interest rate risk arises from all business clusters.
Asset and Liability Management ALM is the responsibility of the specialised ALM function.
This function also covers liquidity and foreign currency translation risks in the banking book, which is treated in more detail later: Investment risk arises only in the private equity and property portfolios within Nedbank Capital and Nedbank Corporate respectively: and Trading risk applies mainly to Nedbank Capital.
Market risk management A comprehensive market risk framework is used to support and assist the Nedbank Board in its responsibility to oversee that market risks are understood and managed.
Governance structures are in place to achieve effective independent monitoring and management of market risk as follows: the Nedbank Boards Risk Committee: the Asset and Liability Committee and the Executive Risk Committee, which are responsible for ensuring that the impact of market risks is being effectively managed and reported on throughout Nedbank, and that all policy, risk limit and relevant market risk issues are reported to the Risk Committee: the Market and Trading Risk Control function within the Risk Division, which monitors market risks across Nedbank.
This is a specialist risk area that provides an independent oversight of market risk in terms of identifying, measuring, analysing, monitoring and reporting, as well as ensuring that appropriate controls are in place to manage market risk, and that consistent risk measures are applied: and the federal model in which business clusters are responsible and accountable for the management of the market risks that emanate from their activities.
There are specialist investment risk committees within the business areas that are responsible for the approval and periodic reviews of investments in their respective divisions clusters, and investments may be made only by a properly constituted investment committee.
Where banking facilities are to be extended to entities in which the bank has invested, the approval of such banking facilities is the responsibility of the relevant credit risk management committee, which also takes a holistic view of counterparty exposures.
The Board approves the market risk appetite and related limits, for both banking book asset and liability management and investments and trading book.
Market and Trading Risk Control reports on the market risk portfolio and is instrumental in ensuring that market risk limits are compatible with a level of risk acceptable to the Nedbank Board.
Risk taking in Nedbanks trading activities remained within the market risk appetite and limits at all times during the year.
Trading risk methodology and measurement Market risk associated with trading activities is a result of transactions in foreign exchange, interest rate, equity and commodity markets.
Instruments actively deployed are spot and forward exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, bonds, bond options, equities and equity derivatives.
Currency options, commodities and commodity derivatives are traded on a limited basis.
Market risk exposures for trading activities are measured using Value-at-Risk VaR, supplemented by sensitivity analysis, and stress-scenario analysis, and limit structures are set accordingly.
The VaR risk measure estimates the potential loss in pre-tax profit over a given holding period for a specified confidence level.
The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability-based approach that takes into account market volatilities as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between products and markets.
Risks can be measured consistently across all markets and products, and risk measures can be aggregated to arrive at a single risk number.
The one-day 99% VaR number used by Nedbank represents the overnight loss that has less than 1% chance of occurring under normal market conditions.
VaR methodologies employed to calculate daily risk numbers include the historical and variance-covariance approaches.
In addition to these two methodologies, Monte Carlo simulations are applied to the various portfolios on a monthly basis to determine potential future exposure.
While VaR captures Nedbanks exposure under normal market conditions, sensitivity and scenario analysis, including stress testing, is used to add insight to the possible outcomes under abnormal market conditions.
Nedbank uses a number of stress scenarios to measure the impact on portfolio values of extreme moves in markets, based on historical experience as well as hypothetical scenarios.
The stress-test methodology assumes that all market factors move adversely at the same time and that no actions are taken during the stress events to mitigate risk, reflecting the decreased liquidity that frequently accompanies market shocks.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 173 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 48 Financial risk continued d Market risk continued i Nedbank continued Trading risk methodology and measurement continued m Historical VaR one-day, 99% by risk type Average Minimum Maximum Year-end At 31 December 2006 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.1 Interest rate 1.3 0.6 1.8 0.9 Equity products 1.2 0.4 2.2 1.6 Diversification 0.5 0.4 Total VaR exposure 2.2 1.1 3.3 2.2 m Historical VaR one-day, 99% by risk type Average Minimum Maximum Year-end At 31 December 2005 Foreign exchange 0.
2 0.0 0.5 0.2 Interest rate 1.4 0.9 2.3 1.3 Equity products 1.0 0.4 1.6 0.9 Diversification 0.6 0.4 Total VaR exposure 2.0 1.5 2.9 2.0 The monitoring of trading credit risk exposures within Nedbank includes a total risk exposure measure, made up of current market value plus potential future exposure.
Monte Carlo simulations are used to calculate potential future exposure.
In terms of active management of credit risk, there is continued emphasis on the use of credit mitigation strategies, such as netting and collateralisation of exposures.
These strategies have been particularly effective in situations where there has been a high risk of default.
ii SkandiaBanken For SkandiaBanken, the principal market risk is interest rate risk see later section.
iii OMLAC SA, OMUSL and Skandia In South Africa the stock selection and investment analysis process is supported by a well-developed research function.
For fixed annuities, market risks are managed where possible by investing in fixed interest securities with a duration closely corresponding to those liabilities.
Market risk on policies that include specific guarantees and the investment risk is carried by the shareholders, principally reside in the South African guaranteed non-profit annuity book, which is closely matched with gilts and semi-gilts.
Other non-profit policies are also suitably matched based upon comprehensive investment guidelines.
Market risk on with-profit policies, where investment risk is shared, are minimised by appropriate bonus declaration practices.
Equity price risk and interest rate risk on the value of the securities are modelled in accordance with the Groups risk-based capital practices, which require sufficient capital to be held in excess of the statutory minimum to allow the Group to manage significant equity exposures.
In the US, for fixed annuities, policyholder option risk is managed by investing in fixed securities with durations within a half-year of the duration of the liabilities.
Cash flows in any period are closely aligned to ensure any mismatch is not material.
In addition, extensive interest rate scenario testing is carried out, as required by regulatory authorities in the US, in order to ensure that the amounts reserved are sufficient to meet the guaranteed obligations.
The guaranteed returns provided under Equity Index Annuities are dynamically hedged to ensure a close matching of option or futures payoffs to the liability growth.
Hedging positions are reviewed daily to re-adjust them as necessary.
In Skandias unit-linked assurance operations, the Group has limited exposure to the volatility from equity markets, because in the main, equity price risk is borne by policyholders subject to the impact on asset-based fees charged on policyholder funds.
In respect of Skandias shareholders funds, equity price risks are addressed in Skandias investment policy, which provides for very limited opportunity for business units to invest their own capital in equities or in units in equity funds.
In some areas of Skandias business, most notably its traditional life insurance business, Skandia is exposed to market risks arising from various forms of guarantees.
Typically the policyholder is guaranteed a certain return regardless of the asset return achieved during the term of the policy.
These risks are closely monitored and mitigated by applying asset and liability management techniques, ensuring that the proceeds from sale of assets are sufficient to meet the obligations to policyholders.
Interest rate risks are addressed principally through Skandias finance policy.
This policy limits the business units ability to take on interest rate risks.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 174 48 Financial risk continued d Market risk continued iv Mutual & Federal Asset liability matching A distinction is drawn between insurance and shareholder funds and the following strategies are adopted for each: Insurance funds The overall philosophy governing the investment of funds backing reserves is driven by liquidity considerations and a strong emphasis on capital preservation.
The maturity profile of investments approximates the average term of operational liabilities.
To this end, funds are invested predominantly in fixed interest bearing investments with durations not exceeding five years.
Shareholder funds Shareholder funds are invested in a broader spread of investments including equities, reflecting the more stable nature of the fund pool and the desire to achieve strong real returns over the long-term.
The spread of investments is constructed in such a manner as to guarantee operational capacity solvency margin at all times.
The extent of investment in equities will be expressed as a ratio of shareholder funds as determined by the Mutual & Federal Board from time to time, taking into consideration solvency issues and shareholder expectations.
Equity price risk The portfolio of marketable equity securities, which is carried on the balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk.
This risk is defined as the potential loss in market value resulting from an adverse change in prices.
The objective is to earn competitive relative returns by investing in a diverse portfolio of high quality, liquid securities.
Portfolio characteristics are analysed regularly and equity price risk is actively managed through a variety of modelling techniques.
Holdings are diversified across industries, and concentrations in any one Company or industry are limited by parameters established by senior management, as well as by statutory requirements.
e Currency risk The Group is exposed to effects of fluctuations in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash flows.
The principal foreign currency risk arises from the fact that the Groups functional currency is GBP, whereas the functional currency of its principal operations is South African Rand, US Dollar, Swedish Krona and Euro.
The Group reduces this risk through the use of currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The table below summarises the Groups exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk at 31 December 2006. m At 31 December 2006 ZAR GBP USD Euro SEK Other Total Assets Investments in associated undertakings 71 12 83 Investment property 800 2 2 804 Reinsurers share of insurance contract provisions 61 64 627 3 8 763 Deferred acquisition costs 88 304 1,094 87 5 1,578 Loans, receivables and advances 19,001 48 55 7 1,844 1,849 22,804 Derivative financial instrument assets 1,117 105 1 15 1,238 Other financial assets 705 24 10,584 255 11,568 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 27,301 27,244 5,792 5,636 6,006 1,086 73,065 Short-term securities 577 1 1,043 1 94 103 1,819 Cash and balances with Central Banks 1,470 985 297 84 114 1 2,951 Placements with other banks 84 475 561832 665 Other non-financial assets 2,350 525 3,338 1,983 3,019 22 11,237 53,625 29,684 22,935 7,860 11,378 3,093 128,575 Liabilities Insurance contract provisions 11,419 185 10,643 87 161 22,495 Liabilities fair valued through income statement and investment contract liabilities carried at amortised cost 16,929 25,923 3,505 4,891 5,329 1,009 57,586 Borrowed funds 487 506 415 47 214 7 1,676 Deferred revenue 51 235 25 311 Amounts owed to depositors 21,266 1,910 1,876 25,052 Derivative financial instrument liabilities 1,025 11 1 8 14 1 1,060 Other non-financial liabilities 2,581 2,778 2,797 2,048 1,381 47 11,632 53,758 29,638 17,361 7,106 9,009 2,940 119,812 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 175 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 48 Financial risk continued e Currency risk continued m At 31 December 2005 ZAR GBP USD Euro Other Total Assets Investments in associated undertakings 91 1 1 93 Investment property 845 2 847 Reinsurers share of insurance contract provisions 99 1 355 455 Deferred acquisition costs 101 59 929 1,089 Loans, receivables and advances 16,157 266 1,488 545 18,456 Derivative financial instrument assets 1,322 19 223 40 1,604 Other financial assets 719 83 11,422 5 36 12,265 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 29,970 1,363 3,865 55 125 35,378 Short-term securities 873 280 502 109 1,764 Cash and balances with Central Banks 1,511 416 686 368 70 3,051 Placements with other banks 442 91 33 2 568 Other non-financial assets 2,466 240 2,240 2 56 5,004 54,596 2,820 21,744 432 982 80,574 Liabilities Insurance contract provisions 12,580 22 10,654 2 23,258 Liabilities fair valued through income statement and investment contract liabilities carried at amortised cost 18,149 695 2,261 73 9 21,187 Borrowed funds 804 120 182 327 1,433 Deferred revenue 63 72 2 1 138 Amounts owed to depositors 18,628 560 1,435 522 21,145 Derivative financial instrument liabilities 1,457 37 105 35 1,634 Other non-financial liabilities 2,618 636 2,029 2 75 5,360 54,299 2,142 16,668 404 642 74,155 Cash flow hedges The Group hedges its foreign currency risk on its Euro loan borrowings by entering into foreign currency swaps for USD.
These swaps are bifurcated into a Euro GBP swap and a GBP USD swap.
Cash flow hedge accounting is applied to the Euro GBP swap.
This swap gave rise to currency losses for the year of 10 million from the revaluation of the underlying liability, which for 2006 have been deferred in equity and hedge gains.
The Euro GBP swaps had an aggregate notional principal of 290 million and a fair value of 23 million.
The GBP USD swap qualifies as a net investment hedge, as discussed below.
The repayment of the Euro loan principal is scheduled to occur as follows: 400 million on 10 April 2007, 30 million on 11 July 2010.
The cash flow hedge reserve will be released to the income statement over this period of time to offset the currency movements on the loan.
During 2006, 6 million was released to offset currency movements on the interest paid.
Net investment hedges The Groups principal net investment exposures are mitigated using currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and through debt raised in the currency of the exposure.
The following table summarises the Groups open positions with respect to financial instruments utilised for net investment hedging purposes.
Open positions at year-end m USD ZAR SEK Forward contracts 40 202 1 Currency swaps 195 305 2 Debt 118 169 313 40 676 1 Excludes $35 million of currency swaps that do not qualify for hedge accounting 2 Excludes $750 million and 500 million of financial instruments accounted as minority interests or as equity Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 176 48 Financial risk continued f Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that fluctuating interest rates will unfavourably affect the Groups earnings and the value of its assets, liabilities and capital.
Effective average interest rates excluding banking business The analysis below summarises the effective average interest rate by major currencies across those major balance sheet captions which include significant levels of interest bearing financial instruments except for those used within the Groups banking businesses which are summarised in the average balance sheet tables shown later in this section.
% At 31 December 2006 ZAR GBP USD Euro SEK Other loans and receivables 7.4 7.3 3.1 Other financial assets 3.7 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 8.2 6.3 3.4 5.8 Placements with other banks 8.0 5.1-5.2 3.9-5.2 3.5 3.0 Investment contract liabilities 4.3 Other borrowed funds 8.9 5.0 5.9 3.8 3.3 % At 31 December 2005 ZAR GBP USD Euro SEK Other loans and receivables 6.8 6.6 Other financial assets 6.6 5.5 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 7.7 4.7 4.0 2.3 Placements with other banks 6.3-6.9 4.0-4.9 1.5-4.0 Investment contract liabilities 1.7 Other borrowed funds 8.6 4.7 4.0 6.0 Average banking balance sheet and related interest Nedbank At 31 December 2006 At 31 December 2005 Average value Interest Interest rate Average value Interest Interest rate m m % m m % Assets Mortgage advances 6,839 658 9.6 5,864 541 9.2 Commercial mortgages 3,275 354 10.8 3,011 319 10.6 Lease and instalment debtors 3,028 336 11.1 2,677 285 10.6 Credit card balances 362 47 13.0 324 44 13.6 Bills and acceptances 255 10 3.9 379 27 7.1 Overdrafts 886 100 11.3 914 97 10.6 Term loans and other advances 5,456 572 10.5 6,820 559 8.2 Impairments of advances 412 503 Government and public sector securities 1,459 118 8.1 2,160 133 6.2 Short-term funds and trading securities 1,277 91 7.1 2,055 144 7.0 Interest earning assets 22,425 2,286 10.2 23,701 2,149 9.1 Trading assets derivatives 517 1,933 Other assets 2,584 3,018 Total assets 25,526 2,286 9.0 28,652 2,149 7.5 Liabilities Deposit and loan accounts 12,710 867 6.8 12,147 801 6.6 Current and savings accounts 3,911 100 2.6 3,772 85 2.3 Negotiable certificates of deposits 2,960 226 7.6 2,888 210 7.3 Subordinated debt 674 78 11.6 614 82 13.4 Other interest bearing liabilities 1,998 136 6.8 3,537 181 5.1 Interest earning liabilities 22,253 1,407 6.3 22,958 1,359 5.9 Trading liabilities derivatives 113 1,536 Other non-interest liabilities and shareholders equity 3,160 4,158 Total shareholders equity and liabilities 25,526 1,407 5.5 28,652 1,359 4.7 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 177 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 48 Financial risk continued f Interest rate risk continued Average banking balance sheet and related interest SkandiaBanken At 31 December 2006 Average value Interest Interest rate m m % Assets Commercial mortgages 2,332 93 4.0 Lease and instalment debtors 941 38 4.0 Bills and acceptances 55 1 1.8 Term loans and other advances 112 4 3.6 Government and public sector securities 130 4 3.1 Short-term funds and trading securities 397 10 2.5 Interest earning assets 3,967 150 3.8 Other assets 238 Total assets 4,205 150 3.6 Liabilities Deposit and loan accounts 3,664 76 2.1 Negotiable certificates of deposits 4 Subordinated debt 88 3 3.4 Other interest bearing liabilities 278 Interest earning liabilities 4,034 79 2.0 Other non-interest liabilities and shareholders equity 171 Total shareholders equity and liabilities 4,205 79 1.9 i Nedbank Interest rate risk at Nedbank is managed by the Nedbank Asset and Liability Committee ALCO through a combination of structural and derivative strategies.
Hedging activities are evaluated regularly in order to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied, either positioning the balance sheet or protecting interest income through different interest rate cycles.
An independent Asset and Liability Management ALM committee monitors the structural interest rate risk profile of the banking book, making strategic interest rate risk recommendations to the ALCO.
On-balance sheet strategies are executed through any one of the respective business units, depending on the strategy, whilst derivative strategies are executed through an established ALM desk that trades via independent market making desks housed in the trading environment.
Changes to the structural interest rate risk profile of the banking book are primarily achieved through the use of derivative instruments, particularly with Forward Rate Agreements of up to 1 year in duration and swap agreements used to manage longer dated risk.
Nedbank employs standard analytical techniques to measure interest rate sensitivity within the banking book.
This includes static re-price gap analysis and a point-in-time interest income stress test for parallel interest rate moves over a forward-looking 12-month period.
At 31 December 2006 the sensitivity of the banking book to a 1 per cent parallel reduction in interest rates was 52 million 2005: 36 million, being 6.2 per cent 2005: 4.6 per cent of total Nedbank interest income at risk or 2.3 per cent 2005: 1.5 per cent of total Nedbank equity, within the approved risk limit of 2.5 per cent 2005: 2.0 per cent.
Interest rate risk portfolio review Nedbank is primarily exposed to interest rate risk, because: the bank writes a large quantum of prime-linked assets and raises fewer prime-linked deposits: funding is prudently raised across the curve at fixed-term deposit rates that re-price only on maturity: short-term demand-funding products re-price to different short-end base rates: certain ambiguous maturity accounts are non-rate-sensitive: and the bank has a mismatch in net non-rate-sensitive balances, including shareholders funds, that do not re-price for interest rate changes.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 178 48 Financial risk continued f Interest rate risk continued i Nedbank continued Interest rate risk portfolio review continued The table below shows the current re-pricing profile of Nedbanks balance sheet: m Trading and Up to 3 3 12 1 5 Over 5 non-rate Contractual repricing or maturity dates months months years years sensitive Total At 31 December 2006 Assets Cash and short-term funds 726 686 1,412 Other short-term securities 1,559 207 60 58 1,884 Government and other securities 453 24 721 177 248 1,623 Derivative assets 7 1,124 1,117 Advances 19,296 422 1,029 620 1,197 22,564 Non-rate sensitive 2,473 2,473 Loans to trading and foreign activities 241 5 11 257 Total assets 21,786 653 1,805 786 6,043 31,073 Liabilities and shareholders equity Shareholders funds 2,149 2,149 Long-term debt 11 311 188 113 623 Deposits, current and other accounts 17,609 3,018 394 41 2,682 23,744 Derivative liabilities 19 924 943 Non-rate sensitive 3,614 3,614 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 17,639 3,329 582 154 9,369 31,073 Interest rate hedging 262 993 772 483 Net interest sensitivity 4,409 1,683 451 149 3,326 m Trading and Up to 3 3 12 1 5 Over 5 non-rate Contractual repricing or maturity dates months months years years sensitive Total At 31 December 2005 Assets Cash and balances with Central Banks 720 9 1 820 1,550 Other short-term securities 405 118 1,039 1,562 Government and other securities 861 63 697 93 365 2,079 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,485 1,485 Advances 18,690 433 1,075 602 2,007 22,807 Non-rate sensitive 2,856 2,856 Loans to trading and foreign activities 298 69 41 2 186 Total assets 20,974 554 1,731 694 8,386 32,339 Liabilities and shareholders equity Shareholders funds 2,415 2,415 Long-term debt 11 212 444 667 Deposits, current and other accounts 17,804 2,657 573 45 2,911 23,990 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,566 1,566 Non-rate sensitive 3,701 3,701 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 17,815 2,869 1,017 45 10,593 32,339 Interest rate hedging 1,415 2,692 668 609 Net interest sensitivity 1,744 377 46 40 2,207 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 179 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 48 Financial risk continued f Interest rate risk continued Interest rate risk portfolio review continued ii SkandiaBanken Most of SkandiaBankens business is short-term, which means that interest rate risk is limited and only effects changes in market rates.
The risk associated with fixed rates is managed by use of interest rate swap agreements.
The table below shows the repricing profile of SkandiaBankens balance sheet: m Trading and Up to 3 3 12 1 5 Over 5 non-rate Contractual repricing or maturity dates months months years years sensitive Total At 31 December 2006 Assets Cash and balances with Central Banks 54 54 Other short-term securities 103 103 Loans, receivables and advances 3,306 115 248 18 3,687 Derivative financial instruments assets 266 15 281 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 39 4 2 45 Other financial assets 67 67 Total assets 3,835 130 252 20 4,237 Liabilities and shareholders equity Shareholders funds 195 195 Borrowed funds 90 4 94 Amounts owed to other depositors 3,803 26 22 3,851 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1 4 5 Other financial liabilities 92 92 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 3,986 26 30 195 4,237 Net interest sensitivity 151 104 222 20 195 iii Life and general insurance operations In South Africa the investment policies for the individual life and employee benefits businesses have due regard to the nature of the liabilities and guarantees given to policyholders.
The interest rate risk of such liabilities is managed by investing in assets of similar duration where possible.
Derivative instruments are not used to any material extent to manage the interest rate risk of these long-term assets and liabilities.
OMUSL monitors interest rate risk by calculating the mean duration of their investment portfolios and liabilities issued.
The mean duration is an indicator of the sensitivity of the assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates.
The mean duration of the liabilities is determined by means of projected expected cash flows from the contracts using best estimates of mortality and voluntary terminations.
No future discretionary supplemental benefits are assumed to accrue.
The mean duration of the assets is calculated in a consistent manne.
Any gap between the mean duration of the assets and liabilities is minimised by buying and selling fixed interest securities of different durations.
For Mutual & Federal fluctuations in interest rates impact on the value of short-term cash investments.
Other than ensuring optimum money market rates for deposits, Mutual & Federal does not make use of financial instruments to manage this risk.
Formal policies, procedures and limits have been put in place for derivative instruments.
g Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
i Nedbank Nedbanks daily liquidity requirements are managed by Nedbank Treasury.
Net daily funding requirements are pre-determined by planning for daily roll-overs, managing pipeline deal flow and actively managing daily settlements.
This includes regular interaction with large demand depositors in order to understand and manage their drawdown requirements.
The net cash flow requirements are managed and monitored by the independent ALM function that performs behavioural modelling and stress analyses to identify any potential stress cash flow requirements.
Both medium and long-term liquidity strategies are approved by the ALCO and implemented by the market facing parts of the business, usually through Treasury.
Nedbank ALCO monitors funding and liquidity management on a regular basis with the support of the ALM function that reports and models appropriate risk based management information.
Appropriate liquidity risk dashboards have been built to provide ALCO members and the non-executive members of the Group Risk Committee with the necessary liquidity risk information on a regular basis, including a measure of compliance with approved policies and limits.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 180 48 Financial risk continued g Liquidity risk continued i Nedbank continued The table below analyses assets and liabilities of Nedbanks banking activities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at balance sheet date to the contractual maturity or repayment date.
m Up to 3 3 12 1 5 Over 5 No maturity Contractual maturity dates months months years years date Total At 31 December 2006 Assets Cash and balances with Central Banks 942 1 3 466 1,412 Other short-term securities 1,384 379 120 1,883 Government and other securities 32 717 227 141 1,117 Derivative financial instruments assets 135 80 1,059 343 6 1,623 Advances 5,637 1,760 6,898 8,007 263 22,565 Other financial assets 152 11 60 108 2,142 2,473 Total assets 8,282 2,948 8,364 8,602 2,877 31,073 Liabilities and shareholders equity Shareholders funds 2,149 2,149 Borrowed funds 2 311 197 113 623 Amounts owed to other depositors 19,451 3,413 794 87 23,745 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 16 353 363 212 944 Other financial liabilities 247 12 89 266 2,998 3,612 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 19,716 4,089 1,443 678 5,147 31,073 m Up to 3 3 12 1 5 Over 5 No maturity Contractual maturity dates months months years years date Total At 31 December 2005 Assets Cash and balances with Central Banks 925 30 1 6 589 1,551 Other short-term securities 1,422 64 55 22 1,563 Government and other securities 1,087 77 804 104 9 2,081 Derivative financial instruments assets 284 377 684 98 42 1,485 Advances 5,978 1,893 7,040 7,501 394 22,806 Other financial assets 542 29 13 103 2,166 2,853 Loans to trading and foreign activities 13 118 62 43 Total assets 10,251 2,352 8,659 7,855 3,222 32,339 Liabilities and shareholders equity Shareholders funds 2,415 2,415 Borrowed funds 1 213 454 668 Amounts owed to other depositors 13,038 9,508 1,118 42 284 23,990 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 296 444 673 127 27 1,567 Other financial liabilities 1,553 22 39 46 2,039 3,699 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 14,888 10,187 2,284 215 4,765 32,339 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 181 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 48 Financial risk continued g Liquidity risk continued ii SkandiaBanken Within SkandiaBanken, the treasury department is responsible for liquidity planning and financing through daily reforecasts of expected cash flows allowing for anticipated customer behaviour.
Short-term liquidity management is facilitated through inter-bank arrangements and surplus liquidity being invested in the bond market, where the vast majority of the securities mature within one year.
For derivatives, liquidity risk arises due to cash flow effects in relation to roll-overs.
Again, this is managed by Treasury using liquidity forecasting and back-up facilities where necessary.
The table below analyses SkandiaBankens assets and liabilities according to their relevant maturity groupings: m Up to 3 3 12 1 5 Over 5 No maturity Contractual maturity dates months months years years date Total At 31 December 2006 Assets Cash and balances with Central Banks 54 54 Loans, receivables and other advances 103 103 Short-term securities 1,093 358 1,160 1,077 3,688 Derivative financial instruments assets 147 67 66 280 Financial assets fair valued through income statement 35 6 3 44 Other financial assets 47 1 20 68 Total assets 1,479 425 1,233 1,080 20 4,237 Liabilities and shareholders equity Shareholders funds 195 195 Borrowed funds 4 90 94 Amounts owed to other depositors 3,852 3,852 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 4 1 5 Other financial liabilities 68 23 91 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 3,920 8 114 195 4,237 iii OMLAC SA, OMUSL and Skandia The nature of these businesses mean that they are not subject to significant short-term liquidity risk.
In addition, the OMLAC SA, OMUSL and Skandia long-term business liabilities are backed by sufficient readily realisable investments and or facilities to cover cash calls arising from maturities, claims and the surrender of policies, including at unexpected levels of demand.
iv Mutual & Federal Mutual & Federal is exposed to daily calls on its available cash resources mainly from claims arising.
Mutual & Federal sets limits on the minimum proportions of maturing funds available in order to meet its expected needs even in stressed situations.
h Fair values of financial assets and liabilities The amounts of financial assets and liabilities carried at valuations other than fair value are disclosed in relevant balance sheet notes.
The fair value of placements, deposits and other short-term securities with maturities of less than three months approximates to their carrying value, being the amount repayable on maturity or demand as appropriate.
i Fiduciary activities The Group provides custody, trustee, corporate administration, investment management and advisory services to third parties that involve the Group making allocation and purchase and sale decisions in relation to a wide range of financial instruments.
Those assets that are held in a fiduciary capacity are not included in these financial statements.
Some of these arrangements involve the Group accepting targets for benchmark levels of returns for the assets under the Groups care.
These services give rise to the risk that the Group will be accused of misadministration or under-performance.
Total funds under management are disclosed in note 3 iv.
j Company only financial risk disclosures The Company is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets, financial liabilities and inter-company balances.
The most important components of financial risk for the Company are interest rate risk, currency risk and credit risk.
These risks arise from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements.
Currency risk The principal risk the Company faces is currency risk.
The Companys functional and presentational currency is GBP, whereas the functional currencies of its principal subsidiaries are South African Rand, US Dollar, Swedish Krona and Euro.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 182 48 Financial risk continued j Company only financial risk disclosures continued Currency risk The Company is exposed to effects of fluctuations in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash flows.
The principal foreign currency risk arises from the fact that the Companys functional currency is GBP, whereas the functional currency of its principal operations is South African Rand, US Dollar, Swedish Krona and Euro.
The Company hedges some of this currency translation risk through currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange rate contracts.
Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising forward exchange contracts and currency swap agreements.
The table below summarises the Companys exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk: m GBP ZAR USD Euro SEK  Total At 31 December 2006 Assets Investments in associated undertakings 13 13 1 Derivative financial instruments assets 101 101 Placements with other banks 27 10 2 39 Financial assets fair valued through the income statement 56 56 Other non-financial assets 5,560 112 1,669 14 13 7,368 Total assets 5,656 112 1,679 16 13 101 7,577 Liabilities 2 Other borrowed funds 55 314 12 463 98 942 3 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 10 1 6 1 3 21 Other non-financial liabilities 481 1,179 3 5 1,668 Total liabilities 546 1 1,493 21 469 101 2,631 At 31 December 2005 Assets Investments in associated undertakings 18 18 Derivative financial instruments assets 84 84 Placements with other banks 333 10 340 683 Financial assets fair valued through the income statement 53 14 67 Other non-financial assets 1,619 1 1,739 3,359 Total assets 2,023 1 1,763 340 84 4,211 Liabilities Other borrowed funds 45 391 84 520 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1 4 5 Other non-financial liabilities 342 2 1,034 1,378 Total liabilities 387 3 1,429 84 1,903 1 The derivative financial instruments of 101 million represent currency hedge for borrowed funds and so have been re-classified and netted against USD borrowed funds.
2 The total of 314 million USD and 463 million SEK of borrowed funds have been net of hedges in derivative financial instruments of 101 million and 3 million respectively.
3 The derivative financial instruments of 3 million represent currency hedge for borrowed funds and so have been re-classed and netted against SEK borrowed funds.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 183 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 48 Financial risk continued j Company only financial risk disclosures continued Credit risk continued The Company is principally exposed to credit risk through cash at bank, which it holds to back shareholder liabilities.
Credit risk is managed by placing limits on exposures to any single counterparty, or groups of counterparties and to geographical and industry segments.
The following table analyses the credit rating Standard & Poors or equivalent by investment grade of financial assets bearing credit risk: UK and Europe m AAA to A BBB to B Not rated Total At 31 December 2006 Investments in associated undertakings 13 13 Derivative financial instruments assets 101 101 Financial assets fair valued through the income statement 56 56 Placements with other banks 39 39 Financial assets bearing credit risk 140 69 209 At 31 December 2005 Investments in associated undertakings 18 18 Derivative financial instruments assets 84 84 Financial assets fair valued through the income statement 67 67 Placements with other banks 658 25 683 Financial assets bearing credit risk 742 25 85 852 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that fluctuating interest rates will unfavourably affect the Companys earnings and the value of its assets, liabilities and capital.
Effective average interest rates The table below summarises the effective interest rate by major currencies across major interest-bearing Company financial instruments: % At 31 December 2006 GBP USD Euro SEK Interest bearing financial assets Financial assets fair valued through the income statement 5.1 Placements with other banks 5.1 5.2 3.5 Interest bearing financial liabilities Other borrowed funds 5.0 5.9 3.8 3.3 % At 31 December 2005 GBP USD Euro SEK Interest bearing financial assets Financial assets fair valued through the income statement 0.5 18.8 Placements with other banks 4.6 3.3 2.0 Interest bearing financial liabilities Other borrowed funds 4.7 4.0 6.0 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 184 49 Insurance risk The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts, under which the Group agrees to compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event the insured event affecting the policyholder occurs.
Insurance risk includes mortality and morbidity risk in the case of long-term business or risk of loss from fire, accident, or other source in the case of general insurance.
For accounting purposes insurance risk is defined as risk other than financial risk.
Contracts issued by the Group may include both insurance and financial risk: contracts with significant insurance risk are classified as insurance contracts, while contracts with no or insignificant insurance risk are classified as investment contracts.
The Groups approach to financial risk management has been described in note 48. a Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk The Groups exposure to insurance risk varies depending on the nature of its operations and their location.
Consequently the Groups policy is to manage insurance risk separately through its principal operations, subject to appropriate central Corporate supervision and monitoring.
The Groups principal operations that incur significant insurance risk are: OMLAC SA long-term insurance in South Africa Old Mutual US Life long-term insurance in the United States Mutual & Federal general insurance in South Africa The Groups other insurance operations include long-term insurance in Skandias unit-linked assurance operations in Scandinavia, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe and Latin America, Namibia, and Rest of World but do not give rise to significant insurance risks relative to the Group as a whole.
Exposure to insurance risk in Skandias unit-linked assurance operations is limited, as the unbundled insurance component of those products is insignificant in comparison to the rest of the Old Mutual Group.
Whilst in general the Europe long-term businesses incur only limited insurance risk, the Nordic long-term business does have a portfolio of defined benefit contracts that include guaranteed minimum fund value.
The time-value of these guarantees have been valued using closed form solutions.
The Group effectively manages its insurance risks through the following mechanisms: the diversification of business over several classes of insurance and a number of geographical segments and large numbers of uncorrelated individual risks, by which the Group seeks to reduce variability in loss experience: the maintenance and use of sophisticated management information systems, which provide current data on the risks to which the business is exposed: actuarial models, which use the above information to calculate premiums and monitor claims patterns.
Past experience and statistical methods are used: guidelines for concluding insurance contracts and assuming insurance risks.
These include underwriting principles and product pricing procedures: reinsurance, which is used to limit the Groups exposure to large single claims and catastrophes.
When selecting a reinsurer, consideration is given to those companies that provide high security.
In order to assess this, rating information from both public and private sources is used: and the mix of assets, which is driven by the nature and term of the insurance liabilities.
The management of assets and liabilities is closely monitored to ensure that there are sufficient interest bearing assets to match the guaranteed portion of liabilities.
Hedging instruments are used at times to limit exposure to equity market and interest rate movements.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 185 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 49 Insurance risk continued b Terms and conditions of long-term insurance business South Africa and United States The terms and conditions attaching to insurance contracts determine the level of insurance risk accepted by the Group.
The following tables outline the general form of terms and conditions that apply to contracts sold in each category of business, and the nature of the risk incurred by the Group.
South Africa Policyholder participation in Category Essential terms Main risks Policyholder guarantees investment return 1 Individual Life Mortality morbidity rates Mortality, morbidity Some investment performance, Varies Flexi business with cover may be repriced regular cover and annuity guarantees premium contracts 1 Conventional with cover Charges fixed at inception Mortality, morbidity Some investment performance Varies and cannot be changed and annuity guarantees Greenlight Charges fixed at inception Mortality, morbidity, Rates fixed for a specified None and cannot be changed for expense number of years a specified term Group Schemes Charges fixed at inception Mortality including Rates fixed for a specified None funeral cover and cannot be changed HIV AIDS, expense number of years for a specified number of years Employee Benefits Rates are annually Mortality, morbidity No significant guarantees, None Group Assurance renewable except for PHI claims in payment for which benefit payment schedule is guaranteed Non-profit annuity Regular benefit payments Mortality, investment Benefit payment schedule None guaranteed in return for is guaranteed consideration 2 With-profit annuity Regular benefit payments Investment Underlying pricing interest rate Yes participating in profits in is guaranteed.
Declared bonuses return for consideration cannot be reduced 1 The extent of the Groups discretion as to the allocation of investment return to policyholders varies based on the type of contract.
Where the contracts are pure risk type, there is no sharing of investment returns.
For other contracts, investment return is attributed to the policyholder.
Declared bonuses may be either vesting and or non-vesting in which case they can be removed.
2 Smoothed bonus products constitute a significant proportion of the business.
Particular attention is paid to ensuring that the declaration of bonuses is done in a responsible manner, such that sufficient reserves are retained for bonus smoothing purposes.
The return not distributed after deducting charges is credited to a bonus smoothing reserve, which is used to support subsequent bonus declarations.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 186 49 Insurance risk continued b Terms and conditions of long-term insurance business South Africa and United States continued United States Policyholder participation in Category Essential terms Main risks Policyholder guarantees investment return?
Life term Renewable term products Mortality, expense Premium guarantees from None offering coverage for level 1 to 30 years periods ranging from 1 to 30 years Universal life Flexible and fixed premium Mortality, expense Secondary non-lapse guarantees Yes, through the interest sensitive life max of 15 years or to age 95 : crediting rate insurance with cash value cost of insurance mortality build up charge guarantees Equity indexed annuities Single and flexible premium Mortality, investment Minimum caps, maximum Yes, through the index accumulation annuities with spread guarantees upside potential of equity indexed returns on their account value Fixed deferred annuities Single and flexible premium Mortality, investment Minimum guaranteed Limited crediting rates accumulation annuities accumulation rates and are reset at specified annuitisation rates intervals Equity indexed universal life Flexible premium interest Mortality, investment, Secondary nonlapse guarantees: Yes, through the index sensitive whole life products expense cost of insurance mortality with upside potential of charge guarantees: minimum equity indexed returns on caps: maximum spread guarantees their account value Immediate Payout Regular benefit payments Mortality, investment Benefit payment schedule None Annuities guaranteed in return for is guaranteed consideration Variable Annuities Accumulation annuities Mortality, investment Minimum guaranteed, death Yes, through separate with policyholder investments benefit and accumulation benefit accounts in separate accounts In addition to the specific risks identified above, the Group is subject to the risk that policyholders discontinue the insurance policy, through lapse or surrender.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 187 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 49 Insurance risk continued c Management of insurance risks long-term business The table below summarises the variety of risks to which the Groups long-term insurance business is exposed, and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate these risks.
Risk Definition Risk management Underwriting Misalignment of policyholders to the appropriate Experience is closely monitored.
For universal life pricing basis or impact of anti-selection, resulting in a loss business, mortality rates can be reset.
Underwriting limits, health requirements, spread of risks and training of underwriters all mitigate the risk.
HIV AIDS Impact of HIV AIDS on mortality rates and critical Impact of HIV AIDS is mitigated wherever possible by illness cover writing products that allow for repricing on a regular basis or are priced to allow for the expected effects of HIV AIDS.
Tests for HIV AIDS and other tests for lives insured above certain values are conducted.
A negative test result is a prerequisite for acceptance at standard rates.
Medical developments Possible increase in annuity costs due to policyholders For non-profit annuities, improvements to mortality are living longer allowed for in pricing and valuation.
For with-profit annuity business, the mortality risk is carried by policyholders and any mortality profit or loss is reflected in the bonuses declared.
Changing financial The move to a lower inflationary environment may cause Value of guarantees, determined on a stochastic basis, market conditions more policyholder guarantees to be in the money included in current reserves South Africa.
Fewer and lower guarantees are typically provided on new business South Africa.
Certain guarantees are reinsured United States.
Policyholder behaviour Selection of more expensive options, or lapse and Experience is closely monitored, and policyholder re-entry when premium rates are falling, or termination behaviour is allowed for in pricing and valuation.
of policy, which may cause the sale of assets at inopportune times Catastrophe Natural and non-natural disasters, including Catastrophe stop loss excess of loss reinsurance treaty war terrorism, could result in increased mortality risk in place which covers claims from one incident and payouts on policies occurring within a specified period between a range of specified limits.
Policy lapse A policyholder option to terminate the policy, which Experience is closely monitored, and policyholder may cause the sale of assets at inopportune times.
behaviour is allowed for in pricing and valuation.
This creates the risk of capital losses and or reinvestment risk if market yields have decreased Many of the above risks are concentrated, either geographically in the case of catastrophe or by line of business for example, medical developments, HIV AIDS.
The Group, through diversification in the types of business it writes and its geographic spread, attempts to mitigate this concentration of risk.
See Segment Analysis, in the preceding section, for illustration of this.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 188 49 Insurance risk continued d Sensitivity analysis long-term business Changes in key assumptions used to value insurance contracts would result in increases or decreases to the insurance contract liabilities recorded, with a corresponding impact on profit loss and or shareholders equity.
The effect of a change in assumption is mitigated by the following factors: offset partial or full through Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC amortisation in the case of US business: the effect of locked-in assumptions for payout annuities and term insurance under US GAAP accounting, where assumptions underlying the insurance contract liabilities are not changed until liabilities are not adequate after reflecting current best estimates: and offset to the bonus stabilisation reserve in the case of mortality assumption changes for with-profit annuity business in South Africa.
The impact on Group equity resulting from a change in insurance contract liabilities or DAC balances at 31 December 2006 for long-term business has been estimated as follows negative impact shown as positive figure : %mm Assumption Change South Africa US Mortality and morbidity rates assurance 10 159 5 Mortality rates annuities -10 34 11 Discontinuance rates 10 3 19 Expenses maintenance 10 47 3 The insurance contract liabilities recorded for the South African business are also impacted by the valuation discount rate assumed.
Lowering this rate by 1 per cent would result in a net increase to the insurance contract liabilities, and decrease to profit, of 33 million 2005: 35 million.
There is no impact for the US businesses as the valuation rate is locked-in.
South Africa The changes in insurance contract liabilities shown are calculated using the specified increase or decrease to the rates, with no change in charges paid by policyholders.
The valuation interest rate sensitivity reflects a change in the valuation interest rates without any corresponding change in investment returns or in the expense inflation rate.
It should be noted that where the assets and liabilities of a product are closely matched e. g. non-profit annuity business, the net effect has been shown since the assets and liabilities move in parallel.
United States The assumption changes have relatively little impact on the US net IFRS insurance contract liabilities or DAC on life and immediate annuities, as assumptions are generally locked in.
For universal life and deferred annuities, assumptions supporting the Present Value Future Profits PVFP Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC amortisation are periodically updated for actual experience.
Each of these assumption changes would trigger a DAC unlocking.
The assumption changes specified do not approach the levels necessary to trigger a change in liabilities or DAC.
e Guarantees and options long-term business Many of the insurance contracts issued by the Group contain guarantees and options to policyholders, the ultimate liability for which will depend significantly on the number of policyholders exercising their options and on market and investment conditions applying at that time.
South Africa Certain life assurance contracts include the payment of guaranteed values to policyholders on maturity, death, disability or survival.
The published liabilities include the provision for both the intrinsic and time-value of the options and guarantees.
The time-value of options and guarantees has been valued using a stochastic asset model that is in keeping with the applicable professional guidance notes issued by the Actuarial Society of South Africa ASSA.
The options and guarantees that could have a material effect on the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows are described below.
The required shock calculations have been performed as at 31 December 2006.
Product category Description of options and guarantees Required shock to bring out-of-the-money policies in-the-money Individual business Death, disability, point A closed block of unit-linked type and smoothed An insignificant proportion of policies is currently in-theand or maturity guarantees bonus business with an underlying minimum money current actual cumulative investment return lower growth rate guarantee 4.28% pa for life and than that guaranteed.
On average a 53% fall in asset endowment business and 4.78% pa for retirement value is required to bring current out-of-the-money policies annuity business, and smoothed bonus business to become in-the-money.
with vested bonuses, applicable when calculating death, disability and maturity claims.
A small block of smoothed bonus savings business None of these policies are currently in-the-money.
On in Group Schemes that has death guarantees of average a 49% fall in asset value is required to bring premiums net of fees plus 4.25% pa investment current out-of-the-money policies to become in-the-money.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 189 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued 49 Insurance risk continued e Guarantees and options long-term business continued South Africa continued Product category Description of options and guarantees Required Shock to Bring Out-of-the-Money Policies In-the-Money Guaranteed annuity options Retirement annuities sold prior to June 1997 A small proportion of policies is currently in-the-money contain guaranteed annuity options, whereby the the current policy value lower than the threshold annuity policyholder has an option to exchange the full consideration at which the guaranteed annuity option retirement proceeds for a minimum level of annuity becomes in-the-money.
On average a 190 basis points income at maturity.
reduction in yield is required to bring current out-of-themoney policies to become in-the-money.
Group business Vested bonuses in respect There is a significant pre-retirement savings This business is currently out-of-the-money as the of pre-retirement with-profits smoothed bonus portfolio.
Vested bonuses affect aggregate market value exceeds the vested reserve.
On business the calculation of benefit payments when a member average a 40% fall in assets is required to cause this block exits from the scheme as the face value is paid out.
of business to become in-the-money.
If, however, a scheme terminates, the lower of face and market value is paid out and the vested bonuses are not guaranteed.
United States Product category Description of options and guarantees Required shock to bring out-of-the-money policies in-the-money Death, disability, surrender Crediting rates declared for the fixed deferred annuity 20% of policies are currently in-the-money and being point and or maturity block of business vest fully.
They are subject to credited the minimum rate.
A 300 basis points drop in guarantees a minimum crediting rate which is specified in the interest rates would bring 94% of policies in-the-money.
Minimum surrender values are determined by this rate.
Equity indexed annuities offer minimum crediting The minimum surrender values of 3% of policies are rates on the fixed portion of the product, minimum currently in-the-money.
A year of flat equity markets with surrender values based on this and credit equity no equity credits would bring an additional 2% in-theparticipation annually as a percentage of equity money.
Two years of no equity credits would result in 16% growth subject to a maximum %.
This equity of the portfolio being in-the-money.
The equity exposure participation, which is subject to a minimum of is hedged using a dynamic hedging strategy.
The variable annuities offered to off-shore The minimum death benefit of 4% of policies is currently customers through Old Mutual Bermuda can offer in-the-money.
These risks are substantially reinsured.
Death benefits are subject to a minimum of the sum invested or value at any anniversary date if greater.
A small proportion of variable annuity clients elect a minimum guaranteed account value on maturity.
The universal life policies specify a minimum The minimum rate is currently being credited on 69% crediting rate to accumulate account balances.
Guaranteed annuity options All deferred annuities offer a guaranteed The extent to which the policies are currently in-the-money annuitisation option on maturity.
The rates are is negligible.
set conservatively and typically have very low utilisation as customers in the United States value the choice inherent in a lump-sum payment.
No-lapse guarantees Certain universal life contracts contain a feature No policies are currently in-the-money.
This risk is that guarantees that the contract will continue, reinsured.
even if values would otherwise be insufficient, provided the customer has paid at least a stated amount of premium.
Assets and liabilities for all products are matched by duration and convexity.
Investment mandates constrain tactical mismatches.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 190 49 Insurance risk continued f General insurance risks and sensitivities Mutual & Federal writes the following types of business within its commercial, risk finance and personal divisions: Commercial Risk finance Personal Fire Accident Personal accident Motor Engineering Crop Marine Credit Underwriting guidelines are designed to ensure that underwritten risks are well diversified, and that terms and conditions, including premium rates, appropriately reflect the risk.
Reinsurance plays an extremely important role in the management of risk and exposure at Mutual & Federal.
The Group makes use of a combination of proportional and non-proportional reinsurance to limit the impact of both individual and event losses and to provide insurance capacity.
Involvement in any property catastrophe loss is limited to approximately 5 million for any one event and the level of catastrophe cover purchased is based on estimated maximum loss scenarios, in keeping with accepted market norms.
General insurance risk includes the following risks: occurrence risk the possibility that the number of insured events will differ from those expected: severity risk the possibility that the costs of the events will differ from those expected: and development risk the possibility that changes may occur in the amount of an insurers obligation at the end of a contract period.
An increase of 10% in the average cost of claims would require the recognition of an additional loss of 35 million 35 million net of reinsurance.
Similarly, an increase of 10 per cent in the ultimate number of claims would result in an additional loss of 35 million 34 million net of reinsurance.
The majority of the Groups general insurance contracts are classified as short-tailed, meaning that any claim is settled within a year after the loss date.
This contrasts with the long-tailed classes where the claims costs take longer to materialise and settle.
The Groups long-tailed business is generally limited to personal accident, third party motor liability and some engineering classes.
In total the long-tail business comprises less than 5 per cent of an average years claim costs.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 191
