Notes to the accounts For the year ended 30 September 2006 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Paragon Group of Companies PLC is a company The financial statements have been prepared in accordance domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in with International Financial Reporting Standards as England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985.
The endorsed by the European Union except that, as permitted address of the registered office is given on page 37.
The by IFRS 1 - 'First Time Adoption of International Financial nature of the Group's operations and its principal activities Reporting Standards' the requirements of IAS 32 - 'Financial are set out in the Directors Report on pages 12 to 14.
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation' and IAS 39 - 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement' have These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling not been applied in preparing the comparative amounts for which is the currency of the economic environment in which the year ended 30 September 2005.
In these disclosures, the Group operates.
financial instruments are accounted for using the policies At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the and practices previously adopted under UK GAAP.
following International Financial Reporting Standards and The particular policies adopted are described below.
Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: a Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared under the IFRS 7 - 'Financial Instruments: Disclosures' and the historical cost convention, except as required in the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures.
valuation of certain financial instruments which are The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards carried at fair value.
and Interpretations in future periods will have no material b Basis of consolidation impact on the financial statements of the Group except for The consolidated financial statements deal with the additional and amended disclosures on capital and financial accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries made up instruments when the relevant standards come into effect to 30 September 2006.
Subsidiaries comprise all those for the financial year ending 30 September 2008. entities over which the Group has control.
The results of businesses acquired are dealt with in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition.
In accordance with SIC 12 - 'Consolidation: Special Purpose Entities' companies owned by charitable trusts into which loans originated by Mortgage Trust Limited were sold as part of its securitisation programme, where the Group enjoys the benefits of ownership, are treated as subsidiaries.
Similarly, trusts set up to hold shares in conjunction with the Group's employee share ownership arrangements are also treated as subsidiaries.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 43 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued c Goodwill g Property, plant and equipment Goodwill arising from the purchase of subsidiary Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less undertakings, representing the excess of the fair values accumulated depreciation.
Cost for property held of acquired assets over the fair value of the purchase under a sale and leaseback transaction represents consideration, is held on the balance sheet and the sale value.
reviewed annually to determine whether any Depreciation is provided on cost in equal annual impairment has occurred.
instalments over the lives of the assets.
The rates of Negative goodwill is written off as it arises.
depreciation are as follows: As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected not to Short leasehold premises over the term of the lease apply IFRS 3 - 'Business Combinations' to combinations Computer hardware 25% per annum taking place before its transition date to IFRS 1 October Furniture, fixtures and 2004.
Therefore any goodwill which was written off to office equipment 15% per annum reserves under UK GAAP will not be charged or credited Company motor vehicles 25% per annum to the profit and loss account on any future disposal of Motor vehicles subject to the business to which it relates.
contract hire arrangements over the term of the lease d Intangible assets h Investments Intangible assets comprise purchased computer The Company's investments in subsidiary undertakings software, which is capitalised where it has a sufficiently are valued at cost less provision for impairment.
This is stated at cost less accumulated i Loans to customers amortisation.
Amortisation is provided in equal In the results for the year ended 30 September 2006 instalments at a rate of 25% per annum.
Loans to customers are considered to be 'loans and e Leases receivables' as defined by IAS 39 - 'Financial Leases are accounted for as operating or finance leases Instruments: Recognition and Measurement'.
They are in accordance with IAS 17 - 'Leases'.
A finance lease is therefore accounted for on the amortised cost basis.
deemed to be one which transfers substantially all of Such loans are valued at inception at the initial advance the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset amount, which is the fair value at that time, inclusive of concerned.
Any other lease is an operating lease.
procuration fees paid to brokers or other business Rental income and costs under operating leases are providers and less initial fees paid by the customer.
credited or charged to the profit and loss account over Thereafter they are valued at this amount less the the period of the leases.
cumulative amortisation calculated using the Effective f Contract hire Interest Rate 'EIR' method.
The loan balances are then Motor vehicles acquired in connection with contract hire reduced where necessary by a provision for balances arrangements are sold to finance houses, who lease which are considered to be impaired.
them to customers for a pre-determined period.
The The EIR method spreads the expected net income Group has undertaken to repurchase these vehicles at arising from a loan over its expected life.
The EIR is that the end of the lease term.
rate of interest which, at inception, exactly discounts the In accordance with the requirements of IAS 17, the future cash payments and receipts arising from the loan assets are not derecognised on the sale to the finance to the initial carrying amount.
house and remain as the Group's assets and the The Group's policy is to hedge against any exposure to consideration received is spread over the customer's fixed rate loan assets.
44 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC In the results for the year ended 30 September 2005 In the results for the year ended 30 September 2005 Loans are stated at cost, inclusive of brokers' The amount provided is an estimate of the amount commissions payable on origination, less provision for needed to reduce the carrying value of the asset to its diminution in value.
expected recoverable amount and is based on the application of formulae which take into account the Brokers' commissions payable on mortgage loans are nature of each portfolio, borrower payment profile and amortised over an appropriate period.
commission balances are included within 'Loans to Customers'.
l Cash and cash equivalents Balances shown as cash and cash equivalents in the Brokers' commissions payable on other loans are balance sheet comprise demand deposits and shortamortised on a straight-line basis over the period of term deposits with banks with maturities of not more the loans to which they relate.
The balances being than 90 days.
amortised are included within 'Loans to Customers'.
m Own shares Amortisation of brokers' commissions is recognised Shares in The Paragon Group of Companies PLC held in within interest payable.
treasury or by the trustees of the Group's employee Interest arising on loans is recognised in the profit and share ownership plans are shown on the balance sheet loss account as it is charged to borrowers, to the extent as a deduction in arriving at total equity.
Own shares are that is expected to be recoverable.
Other fee income stated at cost.
arising from borrower accounts is recognised in 'other n Taxation income' as it is charged.
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the j Finance lease receivables period and takes into account taxation deferred because Finance lease receivables are included within 'Loans to of temporary differences.
Temporary differences arise Customers' at the total amount receivable less interest from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure not yet accrued, unamortised commissions and in taxation computations in periods different from those provision for doubtful debts.
in which they are included in financial statements.
Income from finance lease contracts is accounted for Tax relating to items taken directly to equity is also on the actuarial basis.
k Impairment of loans and receivables o Borrowings In the results for the year ended 30 September 2006 In the results for the year ended 30 September 2006 Loans and receivables are reviewed for indications of Borrowings are carried in the balance sheet on the possible impairment throughout the year and at each amortised cost basis.
The initial value recognised balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 39.
Where includes the principal amount received less any loans exhibit objective evidence of impairment, the discount on issue or costs of issuance.
carrying value of the loans is reduced to the net present Interest and all other costs of the funding are expensed value of their expected future cash flows, including the to the income statement as interest payable over the value of the potential realisation of any security, term of the borrowing on an Effective Interest Rate basis.
discounted at the original EIR.
Loans are assessed collectively, grouped by risk characteristics and account In the results for the year ended 30 September 2005 is taken of any impairment arising due to events which Borrowings are stated at their outstanding value less are believed to have taken place but have not been unamortised issue costs and discounts on issue.
specifically identified at the balance sheet date.
Discounts on issue of borrowings and initial costs incurred in arranging funding facilities are amortised over the period of the facility.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 45 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued p Finance lease payables r Hedging Balances due on the lease arising from the sale and In the results for the year ended 30 September 2006 leaseback of a Group property are recognised in For all hedges, the Group documents, at inception, the creditors at the total amount payable less interest not relationship between the hedging instruments and the yet accrued.
Interest is accrued on the actuarial basis.
hedged items, as well as its risk management strategy The profit which arose on the sale and leaseback and objectives for undertaking the transaction.
The transaction is held within accruals and deferred income Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge and is being credited to profit over the lease term on a inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the straight line basis.
hedging arrangements put in place are considered to be 'highly effective' as defined by IAS 39. q Derivative Financial instruments In the results for the year ended 30 September 2006 For a fair value hedge, as long as the hedging relationship is deemed 'highly effective' and meets the Derivative instruments utilised by the Group comprise hedging requirements of IAS 39, any gain or loss on the currency swap, interest rate swap, interest rate option hedging instrument recognised in income can be offset and forward interest rate agreements.
All such against the fair value loss or gain arising from the instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the hedged item for the hedged risk.
For macro hedges risk profile of the existing underlying exposure of the hedges of interest rate risk for a portfolio of loan Group in line with the Group's risk management policies.
assets this fair value adjustment is disclosed in the The Group does not enter into speculative balance sheet alongside the hedged item, for other derivative contracts.
hedges the adjustment is made to the carrying value of All derivatives are carried in the balance sheet at fair the hedged asset or liability.
Only the net ineffectiveness value, as assets where the value is positive or as of the hedge is charged or credited to income.
Where a liabilities where the value is negative.
Fair value is fair value hedge relationship is terminated, or deemed based on market prices, where a market exists.
If there ineffective, the fair value adjustment is amortised over is no active market, fair value is calculated using the remaining term of the underlying item.
present value models which incorporate assumptions Where a derivative is used to hedge the variability of based on market conditions and are consistent with cash flows of an asset or liability, it may be designated accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial as a cash flow hedge so long as this relationship meets instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are the hedging requirements of IAS 39.
For such an recognised in the income statement, except where such instrument the effective portion of the change in the fair amounts are permitted to be taken to equity as part of value of the derivative is taken initially to equity, with the the accounting for a cash flow hedge.
ineffective part taken to profit or loss.
The amount taken In the results for the year ended 30 September 2005 to equity is released to the income statement at the same time as the hedged item affects the income Derivative instruments utilised by the Group comprise statement.
Where a cash flow hedge relationship is currency swap, interest rate swap, interest rate option terminated, or deemed ineffective, the amount taken to and forward interest rate agreements.
All such equity will remain there until the hedged transaction is instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the recognised, or is no longer highly probable.
risk profile of the existing underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Group's risk management policies.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts.
The Group does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
46 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC s Deferred taxation v Fee and commission income Deferred taxation is provided in full on temporary Other income includes administration fees charged to differences that result in an obligation at the balance borrowers, which are credited when the related service is sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at performed, and commissions receivable on the sale of a future date, at rates expected to apply when they insurances, which are taken to profit at the point at which crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Deferred the Group becomes unconditionally entitled to the income.
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is w Share based payments regarded as probable that they will be recovered.
As In accordance with IFRS 2 Share based payments, required by IAS 12 - 'Income Taxes', deferred tax assets the fair value at the date of grant of awards to be made and liabilities are not discounted to take account of the in respect of options and shares granted under the expected timing of realisation.
terms of the Groups various share based employee incentive arrangements is charged to the profit and It is assumed that all taxable IFRS transition loss account over the period between the date of adjustments give rise to tax adjustments to reserves at the current UK tax rate of 30%.
grant and the vesting date.
As permitted by IFRS 1, only those options and awards t Retirement benefit obligations granted after 7 November 2002 and not vested at The expected cost of providing pensions within the 1 January 2005 have been restated on transition to IFRS.
funded defined benefit scheme, determined on the basis of annual valuations by professionally qualified x Dividends actuaries using the projected unit method, is charged In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance to the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses sheet date, dividends payable on ordinary shares are are recognised in full in the period in which they occur recognised in equity once they are appropriately and do not form part of the result for the period, being authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income Company.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet and Expenditure.
date, but before the authorisation of the financial statements remain within shareholders funds.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the y Foreign currency defined benefit obligation, as adjusted for unrecognised Foreign currency transactions, assets and liabilities are past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of accounted for in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects scheme assets at the balance sheet date.
of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
The functional currency of the Group is the pound sterling.
Both the return on investment expected in the period Transactions which are not denominated in sterling are and the expected financing cost of the liability, as translated into sterling at the spot rate of exchange on estimated at the beginning of the period are recognised the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in the result for the period.
Any variances against these which are not denominated in sterling are translated at estimates in the year form part of the actuarial gain the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on retranslation are included in The assets of the scheme are held separately from those interest payable or interest receivable depending on of the Group in an independently administered fund.
whether the underlying instrument is an asset or a The charge to the income statement for providing liability, except where deferred in equity in accordance pensions under defined contribution pension schemes with cash flow hedging provisions of IAS 39. is equal to the contributions payable to such schemes z Segmental reporting for the year.
Costs attributed to each segment represent the direct u Provisions costs incurred by the segment operations and an Provisions are recognised where there is a present allocation of the costs of areas of the business which obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that serve all segments.
Such allocations are weighted by this obligation will result in an outflow of resources and the value of loan assets in each segment, adjusted for this outflow can be reliably quantified.
Provisions are the relative effort involved in the administration of each discounted where this effect is material.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 47
