Notes to the accounts For the year ended 30 September 2006 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Paragon Group of Companies PLC is a company The financial statements have been prepared in accordance domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in with International Financial Reporting Standards as England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985.
The endorsed by the European Union except that, as permitted address of the registered office is given on page 37.
The by IFRS 1 - 'First Time Adoption of International Financial nature of the Group's operations and its principal activities Reporting Standards' the requirements of IAS 32 - 'Financial are set out in the Directors Report on pages 12 to 14.
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation' and IAS 39 - 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement' have These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling not been applied in preparing the comparative amounts for which is the currency of the economic environment in which the year ended 30 September 2005.
In these disclosures, the Group operates.
financial instruments are accounted for using the policies At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the and practices previously adopted under UK GAAP.
following International Financial Reporting Standards and The particular policies adopted are described below.
Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: a Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared under the IFRS 7 - 'Financial Instruments: Disclosures' and the historical cost convention, except as required in the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures.
valuation of certain financial instruments which are The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards carried at fair value.
and Interpretations in future periods will have no material b Basis of consolidation impact on the financial statements of the Group except for The consolidated financial statements deal with the additional and amended disclosures on capital and financial accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries made up instruments when the relevant standards come into effect to 30 September 2006.
Subsidiaries comprise all those for the financial year ending 30 September 2008. entities over which the Group has control.
The results of businesses acquired are dealt with in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition.
In accordance with SIC 12 - 'Consolidation: Special Purpose Entities' companies owned by charitable trusts into which loans originated by Mortgage Trust Limited were sold as part of its securitisation programme, where the Group enjoys the benefits of ownership, are treated as subsidiaries.
Similarly, trusts set up to hold shares in conjunction with the Group's employee share ownership arrangements are also treated as subsidiaries.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 43
