CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Certain of the balances reported in the financial statements c Fair values are based wholly or in part on estimates or assumptions Where financial assets and liabilities are carried at fair made by the directors.
There is, therefore, a potential risk value, in the majority of cases this can be derived by that they may be subject to change in future periods.
The reference to quoted market prices.
Where such a most significant of these are: quoted price is not available the valuation is based on cash flow models based, where possible, on a Impairment losses on loans to customers independently sourced parameters.
The accuracy of the Impairment losses on loans are calculated based on calculation would therefore be affected by unexpected statistical models.
The key assumptions revolve around market movements or other variances in the operation estimates of future cash flows from customers of the models or the assumptions used.
accounts, their timing and, for secured accounts, the expected proceeds from the realisation of the property.
d Retirement benefits These key assumptions are based on observed data The present value of the retirement benefit obligation is from historical patterns and are updated regularly derived from an actuarial calculation which rests on a based on new data as it becomes available.
Where actual conditions differ from those assumed the In addition the directors consider how appropriate past ultimate value of the obligation would be different.
trends and patterns might be in the current economic situation and make any adjustments they believe are necessary to reflect the current conditions.
The accuracy of the impairment calculations would therefore be affected by unexpected changes to the economic situation, variances between the models used and the actual results, or assumptions which differ from the actual outcomes.
b Effective interest rates In order to determine the effective interest rate applicable to loans an estimate must be made of the expected life of each loan and hence the cash flows relating thereto.
These estimates are based on historical data and reviewed regularly.
The accuracy of the effective interest rate applied would therefore be compromised by any differences between actual borrower behaviour and that predicted.
48 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC
