CAPITAL COMMITMENTS There were no capital commitments 2005: nil contracted but not provided for.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Group had no transactions with related parties other than the key management compensation disclosed in note 12.
During the year the parent company entered into transactions with its subsidiaries, which are related parties.
Management services were provided to the Company by one of its subsidiaries and the Company granted awards under the share based payment arrangements described in note 13 to employees of subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the Company's investments in subsidiaries and the income derived from them are shown in note 28.
Outstanding current account balances with subsidiaries are shown in notes 32 and 47.
During the year the Company incurred interest costs of 11.0m in respect of borrowings from its subsidiaries 2005: 10.6m.
EVENTS OCCURING AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE On 26 October 2006 the Group issued 1,500.2m of Mortgage Backed Floating Rate Notes through a subsidiary company, Paragon Mortgages No.
13 PLC, to refinance existing borrowings.
The Notes were denominated in sterling, US dollars and euros.
TRANSITION TO INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS The Group reported under UK GAAP in its previous financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2005.
The analysis below shows a reconciliation of total equity for the Group and the Company at 1 October 2004 the date of transition to IFRS, 30 September 2005 the date of the last financial statements prepared under UK GAAP and 1 October 2005 the date of adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, and of the profit after tax of the Group and the Company for the year ended 30 September 2005, between the figures already reported under UK GAAP to those on an IFRS basis.
The cash flow statements have also been restated to comply with the requirements of IAS 7 - 'Cash Flow Statements'.
These changes represent the re-classification of balances only, the principal difference being the classification of the movement in loans to customers as an operating, rather than an investing cash flow.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 95 56.
TRANSITION TO INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued Reconciliation of total equity a The Group 1 OCTOBER 30 SEPTEMBER 1 OCTOBER 2005 2005 2004 m m m Total equity under UK GAAP 308.0 308.0 268.4 i Goodwill 9.9 9.9 14.0 iii Pension scheme 10.2 10.2 10.0 iv Dividend 8.8 8.8 6.8 v Share based payment 1.4 1.4 0.5 vi Leases 5.1 5.1 4.7 viii Effective interest rate 2.2 - - ix Impairment 70.6 - - x Derivative financial instruments 4.1 - - Total equity under IFRS 240.3 312.8 275.0 b The Company 1 OCTOBER 30 SEPTEMBER 1 OCTOBER 2005 2005 2004 m m m Total equity under UK GAAP 317.9 317.9 282.4 ii Investments 103.5 103.5 61.6 iv Dividend 8.8 8.8 6.8 v Share based payment 1.3 1.3 0.4 vi Leases 5.1 5.1 4.7 vii Consolidation 12.6 12.6 11.8 ix Impairment 52.5 - - Total equity under IFRS 179.5 232.0 235.1 Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 30 September 2005 THE GROUP THE COMPANY PROFIT PROFIT PROFIT BEFORE TAX AFTER TAX AFTER TAX m m m Profit under UK GAAP 76.8 60.7 19.0 i Goodwill 4.1 4.1 - ii Investments - - 4.5 iii Pension scheme 0.3 0.2 - iv Dividend - - - v Share based payment 0.2 0.2 - vi Leases 0.4 0.4 0.4 Profit under IFRS 71.8 55.8 14.1 96 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Explanation of adjustments i Goodwill IFRS does not recognise the concept of negative goodwill.
It therefore requires that any excess of the fair value of assets acquired over the fair value of consideration in an acquisition is written off immediately.
Under UK GAAP the Group had carried a negative goodwill balance, which arose on the acquisition of Mortgage Trust in 2003, on its balance sheet which has therefore been released through opening reserves on transition to IFRS.
The amortisation of this goodwill is deducted from the UK GAAP profit.
ii Investments Under UK GAAP the Company's investments in its subsidiaries were valued at their net asset value in the Company's separate financial statements.
Under IAS 27 this treatment is no longer permissible and these investments are valued at cost less impairment.
iii Pension scheme IAS 19 - 'Employee benefits' requires that the surplus or deficit on the Group's defined benefit pension scheme be carried as an asset or liability on the balance sheet.
The Group has elected to adopt the provisions of the standard allowing actuarial gains or losses on the scheme to be recognised directly in equity and shown in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expenditure.
Using this option, the accounting required by the international standard is very similar to that required by FRS 17 under UK GAAP.
Disclosures relating to this calculation have been made in the Group accounts since 2001.
The adjustment shown in the opening Group balance sheet represents the recognition of the pension scheme deficit at 30 September 2004 of 14.3m and the associated deferred tax asset of 4.3m, producing a reduction in reserves of 10.0m.
The effect on the profit and loss account represents the reversal of the charge under SSAP 24 and its replacement with the charge required by IAS 19.
A related tax credit has also been recognised.
No actuarial gain or loss arose in the year ended 30 September 2005. iv Dividend Under IAS 10 - 'Events After the Balance Sheet Date', proposed dividends are not reflected in the accounts until approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, whereas under UK GAAP such amounts were normally accrued in the period to which they relate.
The final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2004, which was approved at the Annual General Meeting on 9 February 2005, has been added back to opening reserves at 1 October 2004 and accounted for in the year ended 30 September 2005.
The final dividend proposed for the year ended 30 September 2005 has been added back to closing reserves and has been accounted for in the year ended 30 September 2006. v Share based payment Under IFRS 2 the Group recognises an expense in respect of share options granted under the Sharesave scheme in the same way as such expenses are recognised for the other share-based remuneration arrangements, the UK GAAP accounting for which was already in accordance with the International Standard.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 97 56.
TRANSITION TO INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued vi Leases The provisions for determining whether a lease should accounted for as a finance lease under IFRS are different from those under UK GAAP.
Consequently the sale and lease-back transaction on the Group's former freehold property in Solihull falls to be treated as a finance lease under IFRS.
This requires the building to be re-instated in fixed assets, a finance lease creditor to be recognised, and the 2.5m profit on sale to be spread over the lease term.
No deferred tax is provided on this adjustment as the potential deferred tax arose from the initial recognition of the property asset and the associated lease creditor.
This change reduces profit for the year ended 30 September 2005 by 0.4m, as a result of the charging of finance lease interest and depreciation rather than the rent payable.
The annual impact of this change will reduce in future periods.
vii Consolidation Under UK GAAP the ESOP Trusts operated by the Group were treated as forming part of the parent company and were thus included in its individual financial statements.
Under IFRS the Trusts are, by definition, subsidiary undertakings and are therefore accounted for in the parent company's individual financial statements at cost.
viii Effective interest rate Under IAS 39, the Group's loan assets are required to be accounted for on the 'amortised cost' basis.
This requires that, for all loan assets other than those arising from hire purchase agreements, revenue be recognised on a constant basis over the estimated actual not contractual life of the loan, taking into account all costs and fees attributable to the loan, in the same way that all these factors would be taken into account in determining an investment return for a product.
The rate at which income is recognised is referred to as the 'Effective Interest Rate' 'EIR'.
The revenue stream includes estimated early redemption penalties.
For the Group this means that costs such as commissions and other external but not internal fees paid are spread across the expected life of the loan, income such as up front fees is spread on a similar basis and the effect of discounts offered is spread over the expected life of the loan rather than the discount period.
Similarly where fees or penalties are payable at the point of settlement, these also are required to be estimated and included in the EIR calculation.
For items such as commissions, which were already spread under the Group's UK GAAP accounting policies, the new basis involves a change in the period over which they are spread, but for completion fees and similar items the income is deferred rather than being taken at the advance date.
The adjustments in respect of the buy-to-let assets arise principally from spreading commissions paid over a longer period and the carry forward of fee income within loans to customers, while those on consumer finance assets relate principally to changes in the periods over which commissions are spread and the inclusion of terminal charges in the EIR calculations.
The adjustments on other assets, which affect primarily owner-occupied mortgages written by Mortgage Trust before its acquisition by the Group, relate to changes in the periods over which commissions are spread and the spreading of initial fees and terminal fees.
98 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC ix Impairment IAS 39 replaces the concept of provision for losses on customer loans with 'loan impairment'.
An impairment is only recognised when there is evidence to suggest, at the balance sheet date that the value of the loan is impaired.
Under IFRS the amount of impairment provision required on any loan is that amount which would reduce the carrying value of the asset to the value of the future cash flows related to the loan, discounted at the original EIR.
Where security exists, the security value can be used to offset any shortfall arising from the discounting approach.
In the Group's UK GAAP provisioning methodology discounting was not used and therefore additional provisions are required by IFRS where balances are to be collected over a long period, as is the case with many of the assets held within the Group's closed loan books.
The change in definitions and the compulsory discounting methodology have resulted in changes to the Group's provisioning methodologies, with differing results on different asset portfolios.
The largest part of the adjustment arises from the Group's closed portfolios, on loans arising from those business areas in which the Group is no longer active.
The effect on the active businesses is not great, due in the greater part to their exemplary credit quality.
This change, which is also required in those subsidiaries accounting under UK GAAP by FRS 26, causes a reduction in reserves in certain subsidiaries, which requires a provision to be made in the parent company's accounts against its investments in these entities.
x Derivative financial instruments Under IAS 39 certain financial instruments are carried at fair value, including all derivatives.
Movement in these fair values is shown in the income statement for the period, but this effect is mitigated where the derivative is used for hedging purposes and can be shown to be 'highly effective', subject to the hedge accounting criteria of IAS 39 being met.
Under UK GAAP these instruments were shown at cost.
Where a derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, the carrying value of hedged items is adjusted for those changes in fair value relating to the hedged risk and this adjustment is offset against the movement in the fair value of the derivative in the income statement.
Where a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, only that part of the movement in fair value relating to inefficiency in the hedging arrangement affects profit, the remainder being taken to equity.
Any gains or losses taken to equity will be recognised in the income statement at the same time as the effect of the hedged item.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 99
