FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The principal risks arising from the Groups normal business Liquidity risk activities are credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and The Groups assets are principally financed by asset backed currency risk.
The Board operates through the Asset and loan notes issued through the securitisation process.
Details Liability Committee to review and agree policies for of the Groups borrowings are given in note 43. managing each of these risks and they are summarised Securitisation substantially reduces the Groups liquidity risk below.
These policies have remained unchanged throughout by matching the maturity profile of the Groups funding to the year and since the year end.
The position disclosed below the profile of the assets to be funded.
is materially similar to that existing throughout the year.
The securitisation process and the terms of the warehouse Credit risk facilities effectively limit liquidity risk from the funding of the The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its loans Groups loan assets.
It remains to ensure that sufficient to customers.
The maximum credit risk at 30 September funding is available to provide capital support for new loans 2006 approximates to the carrying value of loans to and working capital for the Group.
This responsibility rests customers note 25.
There are no significant concentrations with the Asset and Liability Committee which sets the of credit risk due to the large number of customers included Groups liquidity policy and uses detailed cash flow in the portfolios.
projections to ensure that an adequate level of liquidity is available at all times.
The Groups business objectives rely on maintaining a high-quality customer base and place strong emphasis on Interest rate risk good credit management, both at the time of acquiring or The Groups policy is to maintain floating rate liabilities and underwriting a new loan, where strict lending criteria are match these with floating rate assets, hedging fixed rate applied, and in the collections process.
assets by the use of interest rate swap or cap agreements.
First mortgages and secured loans are secured by charges The rates of interest payable on the loan facilities and on over residential properties in England and Wales, or similar asset backed loan notes issued in the securitisation process Scottish or Northern Irish securities.
Car loans are secured are reset quarterly on the basis of LIBOR.
The interest rates by the financed vehicle.
charged on the Groups variable rate loan assets are determined by reference to, inter alia, the Groups funding Despite this security, in assessing credit risk, an applicants costs and the rates being charged on similar products in the ability and propensity to repay the loan remain the principal market.
Generally this ensures the matching of changes in factors in the decision to lend.
interest rates on the Groups loan assets and borrowings In order to control credit risk relating to counterparties to and any exposure arising on the interest rate resets is the Groups financial instruments, the Asset and Liability relatively short term.
Forward rate agreements may be used Committee determines which counterparties the Group will to hedge against any perceived risk of temporary increases deal with, establishes limits for each counterparty and in LIBOR rates at month ends.
monitors compliance with those limits.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 49 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued The fixed rate corporate bond is hedged by use of a long-term interest rate swap agreement, of notional principal equal to the principal amount of the bond.
This swap is in place until the optional repayment date in 2012 and converts the interest payable to a LIBOR-linked floating rate basis.
The interest rate swaps have fixed rate receipts at an average rate of 4.85% for periods up to 2012 and have floating rate payments at LIBOR.
In part, the Groups interest rate hedging objectives are achieved by the controlled mismatching of the dates on which instruments mature, redeem or have their interest rates reset.
The table overleaf summarises these repricing mismatches.
For the purposes of the table, loan assets, borrowings and derivatives are allocated to time bands by reference to the earlier of the next contractual interest rate repricing date and the maturity dates.
In the 2006 table the carrying values of derivative financial instruments are included in the non interest bearing column.
For those fixed rate loan assets where the customer has contracted to make regular repayments of both capital and interest, the assets have been allocated across the time bands in the table by reference to the contracted repayments.
The analysis takes no account of early terminations which are likely to occur in practice.
In determining the amount of hedging required, the Group makes assumptions about the level of regular capital repayments and early terminations of its loan assets.
The actual interest rate sensitivity will therefore be determined by reference to subsequent customer and management decisions and is expected to be less sensitive than shown.
The table includes short term creditors and debtors.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued The Asset and Liability Committee monitors the interest rate risk exposure on the Groups loan assets and asset backed loan notes and ensures compliance with the requirements of the trustees in respect of the Groups securitisations.
The only interest rate risk in the Company arises from the corporate bond described above which is a fixed rate instrument, until its maturity in 2017, which is fully hedged.
Inter company assets and liabilities bear interest at floating rates based on LIBOR which reset at least quarterly.
The finance lease bears notional interest only: all other balances are non-interest bearing.
Currency risk All of the Groups assets and liabilities are denominated in sterling with the exception of the asset backed loan notes denominated in US dollars and euros, which are described in note 43.
Although IAS 39 requires that they be accounted for as currency liabilities and valued at their spot rates, it was a condition of the issue of these notes that interest rate and currency swaps were put in place for the duration of the borrowing, having the effect of converting the liability to a LIBOR linked floating rate sterling borrowing.
As a result the Group has no material exposure to foreign currency risk.
The equivalent sterling principal amounts of notes in issue under these arrangements, and their carrying values at 30 September 2006 and 30 September 2005 are: 2006 2006 2005 2005 EQUIVALENT CARRYING EQUIVALENT CARRYING STERLING VALUE STERLING VALUE PRINCIPAL PRINCIPAL m m m m US dollar notes 2,416.6 2,313.2 535.2 535.2 Euro notes 2,118.6 2,103.0 1,724.0 1,724.0 4,535.2 4,416.2 2,259.2 2,259.2 52 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Use of derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments for risk management purposes.
Such instruments are used only to limit the exposure of the Group to movements in market interest or exchange rates, as described above.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken, and hence all of the Groups derivative financial instruments are for commercial hedging purposes.
These are used to protect the Group from exposures principally arising from fixed rate lending or borrowing and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
Hedge accounting is applied where appropriate, though it should be noted that some derivatives, while forming part of an economic hedge relationship, do not qualify for this accounting treatment under IAS 39 either because natural accounting offsets are expected, or obtaining hedge accounting would be especially onerous.
The Group has designated a number of derivatives as fair value hedges.
In particular this treatment is used for a hedging the interest rate risk of groups of fixed rate prepayable loan assets with interest rate derivatives on a portfolio basis.
The Group believes this solution is the most appropriate as it is consistent with the economic hedging approach taken by the Group to these assets.
b hedging the interest rate risk of fixed rate corporate bond borrowings with a designated fixed to floating interest rate swap.
The Group has also designated cash flow hedging relationships, principally arising from currency borrowings, where a specified foreign exchange basis swap, set up as part of the terms of the borrowing is used.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities Fair values have been determined for all derivatives, listed securities and any other financial assets and liabilities for which an active and liquid market exists.
The fair values of cash at bank and in hand, bank loans and overdrafts and asset backed loan notes are not materially different from their book values because all the assets mature within three months of the year end and the interest rates charged on financial liabilities reset on a quarterly basis.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair values.
The fair values of the interest rate swaps and caps have been determined by reference to prices available from the markets on which these instruments are traded.
The fair value of loans to customers is considered to be not materially different to the amortised cost value at which they are disclosed.
Set out below is a comparison by category of book values and fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments as they were disclosed at 30 September 2005 under UK GAAP.
2005 2005 BOOK VALUE FAIR VALUE m m Derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate profile Swaps 0.7 9.7 Caps 1.4 0.2 0.7 9.5 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 53
