56 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Net Asset Value NAV The value of the Companys assets, principally investments made in other companies and cash being held, minus any liabilities for which the Company is responsible, eg money owed to other people.
The NAV is also described as Shareholders funds.
The NAV is often expressed in pence per share after being divided by the number of shares which have been issued.
The NAV per share is unlikely to be the same as the share price which is the price at which the Companys shares can be bought or sold by an investor.
The share price is determined by the relationship between the demand and supply for the shares.
Discount A description of the situation when the share price is lower than the NAV per share.
The size of the discount is calculated by subtracting the share price from the NAV per share and is usually expressed as a percentage % of the NAV per share.
If the share price is higher than the NAV per share, this situation is called a premium and the percentage is commonly shown prefixed with a minus sign.
Gearing The term applied to the effect of borrowings and prior charge share capital on assets that will increase the return on investment when the value of the Companys investments is rising but reduce the return when values are declining.
A gearing level of 100 or 0% indicates there is no gearing.
Actual Gearing reflects the amount of loans already arranged and in use by the Company.
This is the gearing figure published by the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
It is calculated by dividing the aggregate of Shareholders funds and all drawndown loans by Shareholders funds.
Asset Gearing reflects the amount of loans actively invested in assets and not held in cash.
It is calculated by dividing fixed asset investments by Shareholders funds.
Total Expense Ratio The total expenses excluding interest incurred by the Company, including those charged to capital, as a percentage of average net assets Shareholders funds.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 57 THE MANAGER OF PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC IS INVESCO ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED, A MEMBER OF THE AMVESCAP GROUP.
AMVESCAP IS ONE OF THE WORLDS LARGEST INDEPENDENT GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FIRMS, WITH FUNDS UNDER MANAGEMENT IN EXCESS OF 236 BILLION.
WE AIM TO PROVIDE THE HIGHEST RETURNS AVAILABLE FROM MARKETS, THROUGH ACTIVE MANAGEMENT, BUT IN A CONTROLLED MANNER, CONSCIOUS OF THE RISKS INVOLVED AND WITHIN OUR CLIENTS OBJECTIVES.
AMVESCAP is a company listed in the UK and the US whose UK subsidiaries include INVESCO Asset Management Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Funds under Management as at 31 March 2006.
58 SPECIALIST FUNDS MANAGED BY INVESCO Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth City Merchants High Yield Trust plc Keystone Investment Trust plc Aims to provide investors with a high rate of income by Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of investing in certain interest bearing securities including, but capital mainly from UK investments.
The Trust is geared by not restricted to, preference shares and redeemable or way of Debenture Stocks.
convertible loan stocks, corporate bonds and government Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc stocks.
Aims to generate capital growth with a higher than average INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc income from investment in the UK equity market.
It is Objective is to provide shareholders with long-term growth intended that the Company will provide real dividend in both income and capital from an above-average yielding growth over the medium term by investing mainly in aboveportfolio consisting mainly of UK equities and equityaverage yield equities.
The Trust is geared by a Debenture related securities.
Seeks to achieve a total return in excess Stock and bank debt.
of the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Trust is geared by way of a 4.75% Subordinated Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock and bank loan.
Investing in Smaller Companies INVESCO English and International Trust plc INVESCO PERPETUAL AiM VCT pIc Invests mainly in UK quoted and unquoted smaller The Company was launched in August 2004.
Objective is to companies, and in US smaller companies.
It pursues a provide a tax free dividend return to shareholders primarily relatively risk averse stock selection strategy holding a well through the realisation of capital gains while maintaining diversified portfolio.
The Trust has structural gearing which the capital value of shares.
the Directors believe will enhance the return to INVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller Companies shareholders, over the longer term.
Investment Trust plc INVESCO Japan Discovery Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term capital growth through see below.
investment in quoted investments drawn predominantly from the UK equity markets.
Investments will normally be in smaller companies.
The pursuit of income remains of secondary importance.
Investing Outside the UK INVESCO Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual European Absolute Return Trust plc Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian companies.
Aims to achieve absolute total returns through investment The Trust aims to achieve growth in its net asset value in principally in equity, fixed interest and cash securities within excess of the Morgan Stanley Capital International Far East continental European ex.
Seeks to achieve returns in ex Japan Free Index, measured in sterling.
The Trust is excess of Sterling LIBOR.
Perpetual Japanese Investment Trust plc INVESCO Japan Discovery Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term capital growth by investing in a Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of quoted Japanese securities.
The Trust diversified portfolio of smaller Japanese companies.
Investing in Property INVESCO UK Property Income Trust Limited Real Estate Opportunities Limited The Company is a newly established closed-ended The portfolio is predominantly invested in the UK and Irish investment company with limited liability incorporated in property markets with an additional smaller investment into Jersey.
The objective is to provide ordinary shareholders with the European high yield securities market, including some an attractive level of income together with the prospect of high yield securities issued by investment companies and income and capital growth from investing in commercial trusts.
properties in the United Kingdom.
Investing in Split Capitalisation Funds Invesco Perpetual Recovery Trust 2011 plc offer recovery prospects.
Returns to Ordinary Shareholders are geared by the prior charge of the Zero Shares.
The Trust Aims to meet the capital entitlements of the Zero Dividend has an initial life projected to end in 2011.
Preference Shares and to maximise the capital and income returns of the Ordinary Shares by investing primarily in equities but also debt securities which are considered to Investing for High Income City Merchants High Yield Trust plc INVESCO Leveraged High Yield Fund Limited see above Aims to provide a high yield of income whilst seeking to maximise total returns through investing in a diversified portfolio of high yield corporate and government bonds.
The Trust is highly geared.
Most of the Invesco Perpetual specialist funds listed above are eligible for inclusion in the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 2: Maxi ISAs and PEPs and the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 2: Savings Scheme.
The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: ISAs and PEPs and the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: Savings and Investment Plan offers access to the trusts marked with a.
In addition, most of the above trusts are available for PEP and or ISA transfers via the Schemes listed above.
Keystone Investment Trust is available as an ISA investment via the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: ISAs and PEPs product or as a savings plan via the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 2: Savings Scheme.
Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
co. uk specialistfunds PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 59 NOTES Typeset and Printed by Linkway CCP L14895
