38 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2006 1.
Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year, is set out below.
a Basis of Preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and with the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies, issued by the Association of Investment Trust Companies in 2005.
Effects of changes in new UK Accounting Standards have been disclosed below and restatements to prior year balance are shown in note 19. b Investments Investments are recognised on the date that they are traded and are classified as fair value through profit or loss.
As the Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of interest, dividends or increases in fair value, listed equities and fixed income securities are designated as fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
Financial assets designated as at fair value through profit or loss, are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is the bid price.
Previously these were valued at mid prices.
Comparatives have been restated to reflect this change as disclosed in note 19.
FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement requires that transaction costs for the financial investments at fair value through profit or loss be expensed.
The Companys policy is to capitalise transaction costs on acquisition and the profit or loss on disposal is calculated net of transaction costs on disposal.
Whilst there is no overall impact on the total return for the year or net assets, this results in an overstatement of investment bookcost and misallocation between realised and unrealised capital reserves.
In the view of the Directors, this departure from UK GAAP does not have a material impact on the Companys results and details of transaction costs are disclosed in note 9.
Foreign securities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the close of business in London on the Balance Sheet date.
Any gains or losses including currency movements whether realised or unrealised, arising on fixed asset investments are taken through profit or loss and shown in capital reserves.
c Income All dividends are taken into account on the date investments are marked ex-dividend.
All other income from investments is taken into account on an accruals basis.
Deposit interest receivable is taken into account on an accruals basis.
d Expenses and finance costs All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The investment management fee and interest payable on the debenture stock and bank borrowings are recognised through the income statement and have been allocated 70% to capital and 30% to revenue, in line with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income respectively, from the investment portfolio of the Company.
FRS 26 requires interest bearing borrowings to be recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Previously, the debentures were recognised at amortised cost using straight line method.
The investment performance management fee is calculated as detailed in note 3.
Provided the performance criteria as detailed are exceeded this fee is charged wholly to capital.
e Dividends Following the introduction of FRS 21 Events After the Balance Sheet Date, dividends are not recognised in the accounts unless there is an obligation to pay at the balance sheet date.
Proposed final dividends are thus recognised in the period in which they are either approved by or paid to shareholders.
As a result, the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2005 have been restated to reflect this change see note 19 and the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 is disclosed as shown in note 7.
