GROSVENOR A302 E V A R. R PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The shares of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Share Price Listings Trust plc are quoted on the UK Stockmarket.
Purchases The price of your shares can be found in the following and sales can be arranged in a number of different places: ways.
Here are some examples: Financial Times Investment Companies Stockbroker, Bank, Share Shop, On-line Dealing and Daily Telegraph Investment Trusts on-line or telephone dealing at Capita Registrars Reuters In addition to these options Perpetual Income and ordinary shares PLI.
L Growth Investment Trust plc is a member of the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: Savings Bloomberg and Investment Plan and the Invesco Perpetual ordinary shares PLI:LN Investment Trust Series 1: ISAs and PEPs.
warrants PLIW:LN subscription shares PLIS:LN Investments in PEPs through the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: ISAs and PEPs continues to Internet addresses be available as a PEP transfer investment only.
co. uk Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Invesco Perpetual www.
co. uk Series 1: Savings and Investment Plan Investment Trust The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: Companies Savings and Investment Plan allows an investor to make monthly contributions of 20 per fund and The current share price can also be obtained by calling above or to make lump sum purchases of 500 per 0906 843 4818 calls are charged at 60p per minute at fund and above in the shares of Perpetual Income and all times.
Growth Investment Trust plc or any of the trusts managed by Invesco Perpetual in a straightforward and Financial Calendar low cost way.
In addition, the Company publishes information according to the following calendar: Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Announcements Series 1: ISAs and PEPs Interim unaudited results November December The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: ISAs Preliminary final results May and PEPs allows investment each tax year of up to Ordinary Share Dividends 7,000 in a maxi ISA or up to 3,000 in a mini ISA.
Final payable June Investors are allowed to make monthly contributions of Interim payable December 20 per fund and above or to make lump sum purchases of 500 per fund and above in the shares of Annual General Meeting July Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc or any of the trusts managed by Invesco Perpetual in a Year end 31 March straightforward and low cost way.
Location of AGM: For full details of the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust To be held at The Lanesborough Hotel, 1 Lanesborough Series 1: Savings and Investment Plan and ISAs and Place, London SW1X 7TA on Wednesday, 19 July 2006 PEPs scheme please contact Investor Services.
at 11.30 a. m. The AGM will be followed by tea, coffee 0800 085 8677 % and biscuits.
The other four trusts which are available under these plans are: INVESCO Perpetual European Absolute Return Trust plc Perpetual Japanese Investment Trust plc INVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment GREEN Trust plc PARK Keystone Investment Trust plc NAV Publication BUCKINGHAM The NAV is calculated by the Manager on a daily basis PALACE GDNS and is notified to the Stock Exchange on the next business day.
It is published daily in the newspapers detailed opposite under Share Price Listings.
