38 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2006 1.
Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year, is set out below.
a Basis of Preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and with the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies, issued by the Association of Investment Trust Companies in 2005.
Effects of changes in new UK Accounting Standards have been disclosed below and restatements to prior year balance are shown in note 19. b Investments Investments are recognised on the date that they are traded and are classified as fair value through profit or loss.
As the Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of interest, dividends or increases in fair value, listed equities and fixed income securities are designated as fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
Financial assets designated as at fair value through profit or loss, are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is the bid price.
Previously these were valued at mid prices.
Comparatives have been restated to reflect this change as disclosed in note 19.
FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement requires that transaction costs for the financial investments at fair value through profit or loss be expensed.
The Companys policy is to capitalise transaction costs on acquisition and the profit or loss on disposal is calculated net of transaction costs on disposal.
Whilst there is no overall impact on the total return for the year or net assets, this results in an overstatement of investment bookcost and misallocation between realised and unrealised capital reserves.
In the view of the Directors, this departure from UK GAAP does not have a material impact on the Companys results and details of transaction costs are disclosed in note 9.
Foreign securities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the close of business in London on the Balance Sheet date.
Any gains or losses including currency movements whether realised or unrealised, arising on fixed asset investments are taken through profit or loss and shown in capital reserves.
c Income All dividends are taken into account on the date investments are marked ex-dividend.
All other income from investments is taken into account on an accruals basis.
Deposit interest receivable is taken into account on an accruals basis.
d Expenses and finance costs All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The investment management fee and interest payable on the debenture stock and bank borrowings are recognised through the income statement and have been allocated 70% to capital and 30% to revenue, in line with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income respectively, from the investment portfolio of the Company.
FRS 26 requires interest bearing borrowings to be recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Previously, the debentures were recognised at amortised cost using straight line method.
The investment performance management fee is calculated as detailed in note 3.
Provided the performance criteria as detailed are exceeded this fee is charged wholly to capital.
e Dividends Following the introduction of FRS 21 Events After the Balance Sheet Date, dividends are not recognised in the accounts unless there is an obligation to pay at the balance sheet date.
Proposed final dividends are thus recognised in the period in which they are either approved by or paid to shareholders.
As a result, the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2005 have been restated to reflect this change see note 19 and the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 is disclosed as shown in note 7.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 39 f Taxation and deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Timing differences are differences between the companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements which are capable of reversal in one or more subsequent periods.
The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between capital and revenue on the same basis as the particular item to which it relates, using the marginal method.
g Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currency, whether of a revenue or capital nature, are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates of such transactions.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the close of business in London on the Balance Sheet date.
Any gains or losses on foreign currency held, whether realised or unrealised, are taken to the capital reserve or to the revenue account, depending on whether the gain or loss is of capital or revenue nature.
h Capital reserves Capital reserve realised The following are accounted for in this reserve: gains and losses on the realisation of investments: realised exchange differences of a capital nature: expenses charged to this reserve in accordance with the above policies: and share purchases.
Capital reserves unrealised The following are accounted for in this reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end.
i Forward contracts Forward contracts entered into for hedging purposes are valued at the appropriate forward currency rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profits or losses on the closure or revaluation of positions are included in capital reserves.
These contracts are designated fair value hedges through profit or loss.
j Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Companys balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Company shall offset financial assets and financial liabilities if the Company has a legally enforceable right to set-off the recognised amounts and interests and intends to settle on a net basis.
Financial assets and liabilities are fiderecognised when the Company settles it obligations relating to the instrument.
