PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 47 18.
Risk management, financial assets and liabilities Risk management The holding of securities, investing activities and associated financing undertaken pursuant to the investment policy involves certain inherent risks.
Events may occur that would result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction of revenue returns.
Set out below are the principal risks inherent in the Companys activities and the actions taken to manage these risks.
The main risk arising from the Companys financial instruments, which includes investments, is market price risk incorporating interest rate risk.
It should be noted that the prices of warrants, options and geared equity-related derivative instruments tend to be more volatile than the prices of the underlying securities.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing these risks and these are summarised below.
These policies have remained substantially unchanged for the two years ended 31 March 2006.
Market price risk arises mainly from uncertainty about future prices of financial instruments used in the Companys business.
It represents the potential loss the company might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements and movements in exchange rates.
This risk is monitored by the Board on a quarterly basis and on a daily basis by the Manager.
Credit risk encompasses the failure by counterparties to deliver securities which the Company has paid for, or to pay for securities which the Company has delivered.
This risk is minimised by only using approved counterparties.
Interest rate risk is limited by the Companys financial structure with operations mainly financed through shareholders funds.
Additional financing has been provided during the year in the form of an uncommitted sterling bank overdraft facility of 70 million, which is repayable on demand, and a 30,000,000 6.125% Debenture 2014.
Liquidity risk and cash flow risk are minimised as the majority of the Companys assets comprise readily realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding commitments as necessary.
Foreign currency risk The income and capital value of the Companys investments and liabilities can be affected by exchange rate movements as some of the Companys assets and income are denominated in currencies other than Sterling which is the Companys reporting currency.
The key areas where foreign currency risk could impact the Company are: l movement in rates affect the value of investments and liabilities: l movements in rates affect the income received: and l movements in rates affect short-term timing differences.
Use of derivatives It is not the Companys policy to enter into derivative contracts other than for the purposes of hedging against price or currency movements in the value of particular constituents of the portfolio or interest rate exposures.
The Company hedges the Sterling value of investments that are priced in US Dollars.
Financial assets and liabilities The Companys assets and liabilities, excluding short-term debtors and creditors, but including shortterm loans, comprise financial instruments which include: investments comprising equity shares, which neither pay interest nor have a maturity date see list of investments on pages 9 and 10.
These are held in accordance with the Companys investment policy.
bank overdraft and debenture stock.
The purpose of these are to finance the Companys investment activities see notes 11 and 12 for details of these.
The fair value of current assets and liabilities is represented by their carrying value in the balance sheet.
The carrying amount of the debenture as at 31 March 2006 is not materially different from its fair value.
48 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 18.
Risk management, financial assets and liabilities continued Financial Assets The Companys financial assets are primarily denominated in Sterling, Euro and US Dollars.
The non-interest bearing financial assets represent the entire investment portfolio and forward currency contracts open at the year end.
Financial assets are included in the balance sheet at market values which represent fair values.
The fair value of the interest rate swap as at the year end was nil 2005: 57,000 as this was closed during the year.
The fair values of these assets is represented by their carrying value in the balance sheet.
Financial liabilities FLOATING RATE FIXED RATE TOTAL STERLING DENOMINATED 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 6.125% Debenture 2014 29,594 26,627 26,627 29,594 Bank overdraft 61,679 33,217 61,679 33,217 In 2005 the 30 million 6.125% debenture had been shown as a floating rate liability due to the effect of the 30 million interest rate swap.
