Primary Parent statements company EEV Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements A: Background and adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS A1: Nature of operations Prudential plc the Company together with its subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Prudential is an international financial services group with its principal operations in the UK, the US and Asia.
The Group operates in the UK through its subsidiaries, primarily The Prudential Assurance Company Limited PAC, Prudential Annuities Limited PAL, Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL, M&G Group Limited and Egg plc.
On 29 January 2007 the Company announced that it had entered into a binding agreement to sell its Egg A banking business to Citi, as described in note I8.
In the US, the Groups principal subsidiary is Jackson National Life Insurance Company Jackson.
The Group also has operations in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and other Asian countries.
B Prudential offers a wide range of retail financial products and services and fund management services throughout these territories.
The retail financial products and services principally include life insurance, pensions and annuities as well as collective investments and deposit and mortgage banking services.
Long-term business products written in the UK and Asia are principally with-profits deposit administration, other conventional and unitised with-profits policies and non-participating pension annuities in the course of payment.
Long-term business also includes linked C business written in the UK and Asia.
The principal products written by Jackson are interest-sensitive deferred annuities and whole-life policies, variable annuities, guaranteed investment contracts, fixed index deferred annuities and term life insurance.
Prudential plc is a public limited company incorporated and registered in England and Wales.
The registered office is: Laurence Pountney Hill D London EC4R 0HH Registered number: 1397169 E A2: Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements consolidate the Group and the Groups interest in associates and jointly-controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
F The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP.
These are presented on pages 240 to 249.
In 2005, the Group early adopted the amendment to IAS 39, The Fair Value Option and IAS 19, Employee Benefits as amended in 2004.
G The Group has applied all IFRS standards and interpretations adopted by the EU and effective at 31 December 2006.
A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements a Critical accounting policies H Prudentials discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Prudentials consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the EU.
Were the Group to apply IFRS as published by the International Accounting Standards Board, as opposed to EU-adopted IFRS, no additional adjustments would be required.
The preparation of these financial statements requires Prudential to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of I assets, liabilities, and revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
On an ongoing basis, Prudential evaluates its estimates, including those related to long-term business provisioning, the fair value of assets and the declaration of bonus rates.
Prudential bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgements and uncertainties, and potentially give rise to different results under different assumptions and conditions.
Prudential believes that its critical accounting policies are limited to those described below.
The critical accounting policies in respect of the items discussed below are critical for the Groups results insofar as they relate to the Groups shareholder-financed business, in particular for Jackson.
The policies are not critical in respect of the Groups with-profits business.
Accordingly, explanation is provided in this note and cross-referenced notes as to why the distinction between with-profits business and shareholder-backed business is relevant.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 105 Primary Parent EEV statements company Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements continued A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued The items discussed below and in cross-referenced notes explain the effect of changes in estimates and the effect of reasonably likely changes in the key assumptions underlying these estimates as of the latest balance sheet date so as to provide analysis that recognises the different accounting effects on profit and loss or equity.
In order to provide relevant analysis that is appropriate to the circumstances applicable to the Groups businesses, the explanations refer to types of business, fund structure, the relationship between asset and A policyholder liability measurement, and the differences in the method of accounting permitted under IFRS 4 for accounting for insurance contract assets, policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of the Groups with-profits funds.
Insurance contract accounting With the exception of contracts described in note D1, the Groups life assurance contracts are classified as insurance contracts and B investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
As permitted by IFRS 4, assets and liabilities of these contracts see below are accounted for under previously applied GAAP.
Accordingly, except as described below, the modified statutory basis MSB of reporting as set out in the revised Statement of Recommended Practice SORP issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI in November 2003 has been applied for the 2006 and 2005 results.
C From 1 January 2005, the Group has chosen to improve its accounting for UK regulated with-profits funds by the voluntary application of the UK accounting standard FRS 27, Life Assurance.
Under this standard, the main accounting changes that were required for UK with-profits funds were: derecognition of deferred acquisition costs and related deferred tax: and D replacement of MSB liabilities with adjusted realistic basis liabilities.
The primary effect of these changes was to fundamentally alter the basis of accounting and carrying value of deferred acquisition costs as set out in note H2 and the reported level of unallocated surplus of with-profits funds as set out in note H12 from 1 January 2005.
E Under UK GAAP, the fund for future appropriations FFA represented the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits funds.
Under IFRS the FFA is termed unallocated surplus and the Group has opted to account for it wholly as a liability with no allocation to equity.
This treatment reflects the fact that shareholders participation in the cost of bonuses arises only on distribution.
As a consequence of this accounting treatment, shareholder profits on with-profits business continue to reflect the one-ninth cost of declared bonus previously applied under UK GAAP.
F For Jackson, applying the MSB as applicable to overseas operations, the assets and liabilities of insurance contracts are accounted for under insurance accounting prescribed by US GAAP.
For Asian operations the local GAAP is applied with adjustments, where necessary, to comply with UK GAAP.
For Asian operations in countries where local GAAP is not well established and in which the business written is primarily non-participating business, US GAAP is used as the most appropriate proxy to local GAAP.
G The usage of these bases of accounting has varying effects on the way in which product options and guarantees are measured.
For UK regulated with-profits funds, for the 2006 and 2005 results, options and guarantees are valued on a market consistent basis.
The basis is described in note D2 d ii.
For other operations a market consistent basis is not applied under the accounting basis described in note A4.
Details of the guarantees, basis of setting assumptions, and sensitivity to altered assumptions are described in notes D3 and D4.
H Valuation and accounting presentation of fair value movements of derivatives and debt securities of Jackson Under IAS 39, derivatives are required to be carried at fair value.
Unless hedge accounting is applied, value movements on derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
For derivative instruments of Jackson, the Group has considered at length whether it is appropriate to undertake the necessary operational I changes to qualify for hedge accounting so as to achieve matching of value movements in hedging instruments and hedged items in the performance statements.
In reaching the decision a number of factors were particularly relevant.
These were: IAS 39 hedging criteria has been designed primarily in the context of hedging and hedging instruments that are assessable as financial instruments that are either stand-alone or separable from host contracts, rather than, for example, duration characteristics of insurance contracts: the high hurdle levels under IAS 39 of ensuring hedge effectiveness at the level of individual hedge transactions for specific transactions: the difficulties in applying the macro hedge provisions under IAS 39 which are more suited to banking arrangements to Jacksons derivative book: the complexity of asset and liability matching of US life insurers such as those with Jacksons product range: and finally whether it is possible or desirable, without an unacceptable level of costs and restraint on commercial activity, to achieve the accounting hedge effectiveness required under IAS 39.
106 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Primary Parent statements company EEV Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued In this regard, the issues surrounding the IAS 39 application are very similar to those considered by other US life insurers when the US financial reporting standard FAS 133 was first applied for US GAAP reporting.
Taking account of these considerations the Group has decided that, except for certain minor categories of derivatives, it is not appropriate to seek to achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39 by completely reconfiguring the structure of Jacksons derivative book.
As a result of this decision the total income statement results are A more volatile as the movements in the value of Jacksons derivatives are reflected within it.
Under IAS 39, unless carried at amortised cost subject to impairment provisions where appropriate under the held-to-maturity category, debt securities are also carried at fair value.
The Group has chosen not to classify any financial assets as held-to-maturity.
Debt securities of Jackson are designated as available-for-sale with value movements being recorded as movements within shareholders equity.
B Presentation of results before tax The total tax charge for the Group reflects tax that in addition to relating to shareholders profits is also attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
This is explained in more detail in note F5.
However, pre-tax profits are determined after transfers to or from unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
These transfers are in turn determined after taking account C of tax borne by with-profits funds.
Consequently reported profit before the total tax charge is not representative of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders.
In order to provide a measure of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders the Group has chosen to adopt an income statement presentation of the tax charge and pre-tax results that delineates between policyholder and shareholder components.
Supplementary analysis of results and earnings attributable to shareholders D With the exception of debt securities held by Jackson and Egg and assets classified as loans and receivables, all financial investments are designated as fair value through profit and loss.
Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on such assets held by with-profits funds, and those of investment property for the accounting treatment is similarly based, do not affect reported shareholder results.
This is because i unallocated surplus of with-profits funds are accounted for as liabilities and ii excess or deficits of income and expenditure of the funds over the required surplus for distribution are transferred to or from unallocated surplus.
However, for shareholder-backed E businesses the short-term fluctuations affect the result for the year and the Group provides additional analysis of results to provide information on results before and after short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
Previously under UK GAAP i. e. prior to 2005, the Group used operating profit based on longer-term investment returns before amortisation of goodwill as a supplemental measure of its results.
For the purposes of measuring operating profit, investment returns on F shareholder-financed business were based on the expected longer-term rates of return.
For debt securities, the longer-term returns including losses arising on the recognition of permanent diminutions in value were averaged over five years for inclusion in operating profit.
Under IFRS, the Group continues to use operating profit based on longer-term investment returns as a supplemental measure of its results, although the basis of calculation has been improved, as disclosed in note A4 d. G b Critical accounting estimates and judgements Investments Determining the fair value of unquoted investments The Group holds financial investments which are not quoted on active markets.
Their fair values are determined in full or in part by using valuation techniques.
If the market for a financial investment of the Group is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using H quotations from independent third parties, such as brokers or by using valuation techniques.
The fair values of investments valued using a valuation technique at 31 December 2006 was 4,548 million 31 December 2005: 4,947 million.
The valuation techniques include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option adjusted spread models and enterprise valuation and may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk I and interest rates.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these instruments.
Additional details are explained in note G1.
Determining impairments relating to financial assets Available-for-sale securities Financial investments carried on an available-for-sale basis are represented by Jacksons and Eggs debt securities portfolio.
These are considered to be impaired if there has been a significant or prolonged period of decline in fair value below its amortised cost or if there is objective evidence of impairment.
The consideration of this requires managements judgement.
Among the factors considered is whether the decline in fair value results from a change in quality of the security itself, or from a downward movement in the market as a whole and the likelihood of recovering the carrying value based on the current and short-term prospects of the issuer.
Unrealised losses that are considered to be primarily the result of market conditions, such as increasing interest rates, unusual market volatility, or industry-related events, and where the Group also believes there is a reasonable expectation for recovery and, furthermore, it has the intent and ability to hold the investment until maturity or the market recovers, are usually determined to be temporary.
Prudentials review of fair value involves several criteria, including economic conditions, credit loss experience, other issuer-specific developments and future cash flows.
These assessments are based on the best available information at the time.
Factors such as market liquidity, the widening of bid ask spreads and a change in cash flow assumptions can contribute to future price volatility.
If actual experience differs negatively from the assumptions and other considerations used in the consolidated financial statements, unrealised losses currently in equity may be recognised in the income statement in future periods.
Additional details are described in note G5.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 107 Primary Parent EEV statements company Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements continued A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued Assets held at amortised cost Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The loans and receivables include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits and loans to policyholders.
For these assets, the Group measures the amount of any impairment loss by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with the present value of its estimated future cash flows.
A In estimating future cash flows, the Group looks at the expected cash flows of the assets and applies historical loss experience of assets with similar credit risks that has been adjusted for conditions in the historical loss experience which no longer exist or for conditions that are expected to arise.
The estimated future cash flows are discounted using the financial assets original or variable effective interest rate and exclude credit losses that have not yet been incurred.
B The risks inherent in reviewing the impairment of any investment include the risk that market results may differ from expectations: facts and circumstances may change in the future and differ from estimates and assumptions: or the Group may later decide to sell the security as a result of changed circumstances.
C The principal holdings of loans and receivables where credit risk is of particular significance are loans and advances to customers held by Egg.
Egg has significant concentrations of credit risk in respect of its unsecured lending on credit cards, personal loans and mortgage lending secured on property in the UK.
The table in note E5 details the movements in the allowance for losses on such loans and advances.
Changes in the estimates of credit risk in any reporting period could result in a change in the allowance for losses on the loans and advances.
D Insurance contracts Product classification IFRS 4 requires contracts written by insurers to be classified as either insurance contracts or investment contracts depending on the level of insurance risk transferred.
If significant insurance risk is transferred by the contract then it is classified as an insurance contract.
Contracts that transfer financial risk but not significant insurance risk are termed investment contracts.
Furthermore, some contracts, both E insurance and investment, contain discretionary participation features representing the contractual right to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits: a that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contract benefits: F b whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of the insurer: and c that are contractually based on asset or fund performance, as discussed in IFRS 4.
Accordingly, insurers must perform a product classification exercise across their portfolio of contracts issued to determine the allocation to these various categories.
IFRS 4 permits the continued usage of previously applied GAAP for insurance contracts and investment contracts G with discretionary participating features.
Except for UK regulated with-profits funds, as described subsequently, this basis has been applied by the Group.
For investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participating features, IAS 39 and, where the contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18, apply measurement principles to assets and liabilities attaching to the contract that may diverge from those H previously applied.
The principal lines of business for which measurement changes arose on adoption of IFRS are certain unit-linked savings and similar contracts in the UK.
Further details of this exercise are given in note D1.
Valuation assumptions i Contracts of with-profits funds I The Groups insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features are primarily with-profits and other protection type policies.
For UK regulated with-profits funds, the contract liabilities are valued by reference to the UK Financial Services Authoritys FSA realistic basis.
In aggregate, this basis has the effect of placing a value on the liabilities of UK with-profits contracts, which reflects the amounts expected to be paid based on the current value of investments held by the with-profits funds and current circumstances.
The basis of determining liabilities for the Groups with-profits business has little or no effect on the results attributable to shareholders.
This is because movements on liabilities of the with-profits funds are absorbed by the unallocated surplus.
The unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over liabilities that have yet to be appropriated between policyholders and shareholders.
Except through indirect effects, or in remote circumstances as described below, changes to liability assumptions are therefore reflected in the carrying value of the unallocated surplus rather than shareholders equity.
A detailed explanation of the basis of liability measurement is contained in note D2 d ii.
108 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Primary Parent statements company EEV Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued The Groups other with-profits contracts are written in with-profits funds that operate in some of the Groups Asian operations.
The liabilities for these contracts and those of Prudential Annuities Limited, which is a subsidiary company of the PAC with-profits funds, are determined differently.
For these contracts the liabilities are estimated using actuarial methods based on assumptions relating to premiums, interest rates, investment returns, expenses, mortality and surrenders.
The assumptions to which the estimation of these reserves is A particularly sensitive are the interest rate used to discount the provision and the assumed future mortality experience of policyholders.
For liabilities determined using the basis described above for UK regulated with-profits funds, and the other liabilities described in the preceding paragraph, changes in estimates arising from the likely range of possible changes in underlying key assumptions have no direct impact on the reported profit.
B This lack of sensitivity reflects the with-profits fund structure, basis of distribution, and the application of previous GAAP to the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds as permitted by IFRS 4.
Changes in liabilities of these contracts that are caused by altered estimates are absorbed by the unallocated surplus of the with-profits funds.
As noted previously, the unallocated surplus is accounted for as a liability and thus, except in the remote circumstances where support for the funds by shareholders funds was required, changes C in its level do not directly affect shareholders equity.
The Companys obligations and more detail on such circumstances are described in note H14.
ii Other contracts Contracts, other than those of with-profits funds, are written in shareholder-backed operations of the Group.
The significant shareholderD backed product groupings and the factors that may significantly affect IFRS results due to experience against assumptions or changes of assumptions vary significantly between business units.
For some types of business the effect of changes in assumptions may be significant, whilst for others, due to the nature of the product, assumption setting may be of less significance.
The nature of the products and the significance of assumptions are discussed in notes D2, D3 and D4.
From the perspective of shareholder results the key sensitivity relates to assumed future investment returns for the Taiwan life operation as described in note D4.
E Jackson Jackson offers individual fixed annuities, fixed index annuities, immediate annuities, variable annuities, individual and variable life insurance and institutional products.
With the exception of institutional products and an incidental amount of business for annuity certain contracts, which are accounted for as investment contracts under IAS 39, all of Jackson life assurance contracts are accounted for under F IFRS 4 as insurance contracts by applying US GAAP, the previous GAAP used before IFRS adoption.
Under US GAAP the requirements of SFAS 60 Accounting and Reporting for Insurance Enterprises and SFAS 97 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments apply to these contracts.
The accounting requirements under these standards and the effect of changes in valuation assumptions are considered below for fixed annuity, variable annuity and traditional life insurance contracts.
G Fixed annuity contracts, which are investment contracts under US GAAP terminology, are accounted for by applying in the first instance a retrospective deposit method to determine the liability for policyholder benefits.
This is then augmented by potentially three additional amounts, namely deferred income, any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract, and any premium deficiency, i. e. any probable future loss on the contract.
These types of contract contain considerable interest H rate guarantee features.
Notwithstanding the accompanying market risk exposure, except in the circumstances of interest rate scenarios where the guarantee rates included in contract terms are higher than crediting rates that can be supported from assets held to cover liabilities, the accounting measurement of Jacksons fixed annuity products is not generally sensitive to interest rate risk.
This position derives from the nature of the products and the US GAAP basis of measurement.
I Variable annuity contracts written by Jackson may provide for guaranteed minimum death, income, or withdrawal features.
In general terms, liabilities for these benefits are accounted for under US GAAP by using estimates of future benefits and fees under best estimate assumptions.
For variable annuity business the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns which for 2006 and 2005 was 8.4 per cent per annum determined using a mean reversion methodology.
Likely changes to this percentage return are not expected to be significant.
These returns affect the level of future expected profits through their effects on the fee income with consequential impact on the amortisation of deferred acquisition costs as described below and the required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
For traditional life insurance contracts, provisions for future policy benefits are determined under SFAS 60 using the net level premium method and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviation.
Except to the extent of mortality experience, which primarily affects profits through variations in claim payments and the guaranteed minimum death benefit reserves, the profits of Jackson are relatively insensitive to changes in insurance risk.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 109 Primary Parent EEV statements company Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements continued A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued Asian operations The insurance products written in the Groups Asian operations principally cover with-profits business, unit-linked business, and other non-participating business.
The results of with-profits business are relatively insensitive to changes in estimates and assumptions that affect the measurement of policyholder liabilities.
As for the UK business, this feature arises because unallocated surplus is accounted for A by the Group as a liability.
The results of Asian unit-linked business are also relatively insensitive to changes in estimates or assumptions.
The principal non-participating business in the Groups Asian operations, for which changes in estimates and assumptions are important from year to year, is the traditional whole-life business written in Taiwan.
The premiums for the in-force business for these contracts have been set by the regulator at different points for the industry as a whole.
Premium rates were set to give a guaranteed minimum sum B assured on death and a guaranteed surrender value on early surrender based on prevailing interest rates at the time of policy issue.
Premium rates also included an allowance for mortality and expenses.
The required rates of guarantee have fallen over time as interest rates have reduced from a high of eight per cent to current levels of around two per cent.
The current low bond rates in Taiwan gives rise to a negative spread against the majority of these policies.
The current cash costs of funding in force negative spread in Taiwan is around C 40 million a year.
The profits attaching to these contracts are particularly affected by the rates of return earned, and estimated to be earned on, the assets held to cover liabilities and on future investment income and contract cash flows.
Under IFRS, the insurance contract liabilities of the Taiwan business are determined on the US GAAP basis as applied previously under UK GAAP.
Under this basis the policy liabilities are calculated on sets of assumptions, which are locked-in at the point of policy inception, and a deferred acquisition cost is held in the D balance sheet.
The adequacy of the insurance contract liabilities is tested by reference to best estimates of expected investment returns on policy cash flows and reinvested income.
The assumed earned rates are used to discount the future cash flows.
The assumed earned rates consist of a long-term best estimate determined by consideration of long-term market conditions, and rates assumed to be earned in the trending in E period.
For 2005, it was projected that rates of return for Taiwanese bond yields would trend from the then current levels of some two per cent to 5.5 per cent by 31 December 2012.
For 2006, it has been assumed that the longer-term bond rate will be attained one year later, i. e. by 31 December 2013.
The liability adequacy test results are sensitive to the attainment of the trended rates during the trending period.
Based on the current F asset mix, margins in other contracts that are used in the assessment of the liability adequacy tests, and currently assumed future rates of return, if interest rates were to remain at current levels in 2007, and the target date for attainment of the long-term bond yield deferred to 31 December 2014, the premium reserve, net of deferred acquisition costs, would be broadly sufficient.
If interest rates were to remain at current levels in 2008 with a further one year delay in the progression period, then some level of write-off of deferred acquisition costs G may be necessary.
However, the amount of the charge based on current in-force business which is estimated at 70-90 million, is sensitive for the previously mentioned variables.
Furthermore, the actual amount of any write-off would be affected by the impact of new business written between 31 December 2006 and the future reporting dates to the extent that the business is taken into account as part of the liability adequacy testing calculations for the portfolio of contracts.
H The adequacy of the liability is also sensitive to the level of the projected long-term rate.
The current long-term assumption of 5.5 per cent has been determined on a prudent best estimate basis by reference to detailed assessments of the financial dynamics of the Taiwanese economy.
In the event that the rate applied was altered, the carrying value of the deferred acquisition costs and policyholder liabilities would potentially be affected.
Details of this sensitivity are shown in note D4 h ii.
I Deferred acquisition costs Significant costs are incurred in connection with acquiring new insurance business.
Except for acquisition costs of with-profits contracts of the UK regulated with-profits funds, which are accounted for under the realistic FSA regime as described in note A4, these costs, which vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of new business, are capitalised and amortised against margins in future revenues on the related insurance policies.
The recoverability of the asset is measured and the asset is deemed impaired if the projected future margins are less than the carrying value of the asset.
To the extent that the future margins differ from those anticipated, then an adjustment to the carrying value of the deferred acquisition cost asset will be necessary.
The deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs is of most relevance to the Groups results for shareholder-financed long-term business of Jackson and Asian operations.
The majority of the UK shareholder-backed operations is for individual and group annuity business where the incidence of acquisition costs is negligible.
110 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Primary Parent statements company EEV Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements A3: Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued Jackson National Life Insurance Company Jackson For term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For annuity business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected gross profits on the relevant contracts.
For interest-sensitive business, the key assumption is the long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on the annual spread analysis.
A In addition, expected gross profits depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges, all of which are based on a combination of actual experience of the Jackson companies, industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual experience is measured by the internally developed mortality studies.
For variable annuity business, as described above, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns, which for B 2006 and 2005 was 8.4 per cent per annum determined using a mean reversion methodology.
Asian operations The key shareholder-backed Asian operation is the Taiwan life business.
The sensitivity of the results for this operation, including the potential effect on write-offs of deferred acquisition costs, is significant and C is described above.
Pensions The Group applies the requirements of IAS 19, Employee benefits, to its defined benefit pension schemes.
Due to the inclusion of actuarial gains and losses in the income statement rather than being recognised directly in equity, the results of the Group are affected D by changes in interest rates for corporate bonds that affect the rate applied to discount projected pension payments and changes in mortality assumptions.
The economic participation in the surplus or deficits attaching to the main Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS and the smaller Scottish Amicable Pensions Scheme SAPS are shared between the PAC with-profits sub-fund WPSF and shareholder operations.
The economic E interest reflects the source of contributions over the scheme life, which in turn reflects the activity of the members during their employment.
In the case of PSPS, at 31 December 2004, the attribution between the WPSF and shareholders funds was in the ratio 80 20.
In 2005, following extensive analysis, this ratio was revised to 70 30 at 31 December 2005.
Movements in the apportionment of the surplus or deficit for PSPS between the WPSF and shareholders funds in 2006 reflects the 70 30 ratio application to movements in the carrying F value of assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2005 but with service cost and contributions for ongoing service apportioned by reference to the cost allocation for activity of current employees.
For SAPS the ratio for both 2006 and 2005 is estimated to be 50 50 between the WPSF and shareholders funds.
Deferred tax G Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable, that is to the extent that, on the basis of all the available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which the losses can be relieved.
The UK taxation regime applies separate rules to trading and capital profits and losses.
The distinction between temporary differences that arise from items of either a capital or trading nature may affect the recognition of deferred tax assets.
The judgements H made, and uncertainties considered, in arriving at deferred tax balances in the financial statements are discussed in note H4.
Goodwill Goodwill impairment testing requires the exercise of judgement by management as to prospective future cash flows.
I A4: Significant accounting policies a Financial instruments other than long-term business contracts classified as financial instruments under IFRS 4 Investment classification Upon initial recognition, financial investments are measured at fair value.
Subsequently, the Group is permitted under IAS 39, subject to specific criteria, to designate its investments as either financial investments at fair value through profit and loss, financial investments held on an available-for-sale basis, financial investments held-to-maturity or loans and receivables.
The Group holds financial investments on the following bases: i Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss this comprises assets and liabilities designated by management as fair value through profit and loss on inception.
These investments are measured at fair value with all changes thereon being recognised in investment income.
ii Financial investments on an available-for-sale basis this comprises assets that are designated by management and or do not fall into any of the other categories.
These investments are carried at fair value.
Interest income is recognised on an effective interest basis in the income statement.
Unrealised gains and losses relating to changes in fair value are recognised in equity.
Upon disposal or impairment, accumulated unrealised gains and losses are transferred from equity to the income statement as realised gains or losses.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 111 Primary Parent EEV statements company Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued iii Loans and receivables this comprises investments that have fixed or determinable payments and are not designated as fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
These investments include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits, loans to policyholders and other unsecured loans and receivables.
These investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
A The Group has designated certain financial assets as fair value through profit and loss as these assets are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
These assets represent all of the Groups financial assets except all loans and receivables and debt securities held by Jackson and Egg.
Debt securities held by Jackson and Egg are accounted for on an available-for-sale basis.
The use of the fair value option is consistent with the Groups risk management and investment strategies.
B The Group uses the trade date method to account for regular purchases and sales of financial assets with the exception of Eggs loans and advances to customers which are on a settlement day basis.
Use of fair values The Group uses current bid prices to value its quoted investments.
Actively traded investments without quoted prices are valued using C external broker bid prices.
If there is no active established market for an investment, the Group applies an appropriate valuation technique such as a discounted cash flow technique.
Impairments The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets not held at fair value through profit and loss is impaired.
A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are D incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that a loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group.
For assets designated as available-for-sale, the impairment is measured as the E difference between the amortised cost of the asset and its fair value which is removed from the available-for-sale reserve within equity and recognised in the income statement.
For loans and receivables carried at amortised cost, the impairment amount is the difference between amortised cost and the present value of the expected cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
F If, in subsequent periods, an impaired debt security held on an available-for-sale basis or an impaired loan or receivable recovers in value in part or in full, and this recovery can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment, then the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the income statement in part or in full.
Derivatives and hedge accounting G Derivative financial instruments are used to reduce or manage investment, interest rate and currency exposures, to facilitate efficient portfolio management and for investment purposes.
The Groups policy is that amounts at risk through derivative transactions are covered by cash or by corresponding assets.
The Group may designate certain derivatives as hedges.
This includes fair value hedges, cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments H in foreign operations.
If the criteria for hedge accounting are met then the following accounting treatments are applied from the date at which the designation is made and the accompanying requisite documentation is in place: i Hedges of net investments in foreign operations the effective portion of any change in fair value of derivatives or other financial instruments designated as net investment hedges are recognised in equity.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the I hedging instrument is recorded in the income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
ii Fair value hedges movements in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the income statement.
iii Cash flow hedges the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity.
Movements in fair value relating to the ineffective portion are booked in the income statement.
Amounts recognised directly in equity are recorded in the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
All derivatives that do not meet the relevant hedging criteria are carried at fair value with movements in fair value being recorded in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives are held by various Group companies including Jackson and Egg.
They are embedded within other non-derivative host financial instruments to create hybrid instruments.
Where economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host instrument, and where the hybrid instrument is not measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the income statement, the embedded derivative is bifurcated and carried at fair value as a derivative in accordance with IAS 39.
112 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Primary Parent statements company EEV Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements A4: Significant accounting policies continued Securities lending including repurchase agreements The Group is party to various securities lending agreements under which securities are loaned to third parties on a short-term basis.
The loaned securities are not derecognised: rather, they continue to be recognised within the appropriate investment classification.
The Groups policy is that collateral in excess of 100 per cent of the fair value of securities loaned is required from all securities borrowers A and typically consists of cash, debt securities, equity securities or letters of credit.
In cases where the Group takes possession of the collateral under its securities lending programme, the collateral, and corresponding obligation to return such collateral, are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
To further minimise credit risk, the financial condition of counterparties is monitored on a regular basis.
B Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The Groups policy is to derecognise financial assets when it is deemed that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
The Group also derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire.
Where the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, the Group will derecognise the financial C asset where it is deemed that the Group has not retained control of the financial asset.
Where the transfer does not result in the Group transferring the right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, but does result in the Group assuming a corresponding obligation to pay the cash flows to another recipient, the financial assets are also accordingly derecognised providing all of the following conditions are met: D the Group has no obligation to pay amounts to the eventual recipients unless it collects the equivalent amounts from the original asset: the Group is prohibited by the terms of the transfer contract from selling or pledging the original asset: and the Group has an obligation to remit any cash flows it collects on behalf of the eventual recipients without material delay.
E The Group derecognises financial liabilities only when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or has expired.
Securitisation of assets Egg has issued debt securities in order to finance certain portfolios of loan and investment assets.
These obligations are secured on Eggs assets.
The securitised assets and the related liabilities are presented gross within the relevant headings in the balance sheet under the F gross presentation method.
Borrowings Although initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs, borrowings, excluding liabilities of consolidated collateralised debt obligations, are subsequently accounted for on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
Under the effective interest G method, the difference between the redemption value of the borrowing and the initial proceeds net of related issue costs is amortised through the income statement to the date of maturity.
Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss The Group has designated under IAS 39 classification certain financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss as these instruments H are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis.
These instruments include liabilities related to consolidated collateralised debt obligations and net assets attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds.
b Long-term business contracts Income statement treatment I Premiums and claims Premium and annuity considerations for conventional with-profits policies and other protection type insurance policies are recognised when due.
Premiums and annuity considerations for linked policies, unitised with-profits and other investment type policies are recognised when received or, in the case of unitised or unit-linked policies, when units are issued.
These amounts exclude any taxes or duties assessed based on premiums.
Policy fees charged on linked and unitised with-profits policies for mortality, asset management and policy administration are recognised as revenue when related services are provided.
Claims paid include maturities, annuities, surrenders and deaths.
Maturity claims are recorded on the policy maturity date.
Annuity claims are recorded when the annuity becomes due for payment.
Surrenders are recorded when paid and death claims are recorded when notified.
For investment contracts which do not contain discretionary participating features, the accounting reflects the deposit nature of the arrangement, with premiums and claims reflected as deposits and withdrawals and taken directly to the balance sheet.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 113 Primary Parent EEV statements company Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued Acquisition costs Costs of acquiring new insurance business, principally commissions, marketing and advertising costs and certain other costs associated with policy issuance and underwriting that are not reimbursed by policy charges, are specifically identified and capitalised as part of deferred acquisition costs DAC, which are included as an asset in the balance sheet.
The DAC asset in respect of insurance contracts is A amortised against margins in future revenues on the related insurance policies, to the extent that the amounts are recoverable out of the margins.
Recoverability of the unamortised DAC asset is assessed at the time of policy issue and reviewed if profit margins have declined.
Under IFRS, investment contracts excluding those with discretionary participation features are required to be accounted for as financial liabilities in accordance with IAS 39 and, where relevant, the provisions of IAS 18 in respect of the attaching investment management B features of the contracts.
The Groups investment contracts primarily comprise of certain unit-linked savings contracts in the UK and Asia and contracts with fixed and guaranteed terms in the US such as guaranteed investment contracts and annuity-certains.
Incremental, directly attributable acquisition costs relating to the investment management element of these contracts are capitalised and amortised in line with the related revenue.
If the contracts involve up-front charges, this income is also deferred and amortised through C the income statement in line with contractual service provision.
UK regulated with-profits funds The UK GAAP basis applied in 2004 was the MSB, which closely reflected the Peak 1 regulatory basis of the UK FSA.
Prudentials long-term business written in the UK comprises predominantly life insurance policies under which the policyholders are D entitled to participate in the returns of the funds supporting these policies.
Business similar to this type is also written in certain of the Groups Asian operations and subject to local market and regulatory conditions.
Such policies are called with-profits policies.
Prudential maintains with-profits funds within the Groups long-term business funds, which segregate the assets and liabilities and accumulate the returns related to that with-profits business.
The amounts accumulated in these with-profits funds are available to provide for future E policyholder benefit provisions and for bonuses to be distributed to with-profits policyholders.
The bonuses, both annual and final, reflect the right of the with-profits policyholders to participate in the financial performance of the with-profits funds.
Shareholders profits with respect to bonuses declared on with-profits business correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses as declared by the Board of directors.
The shareholders share currently represents one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared for with-profits policies.
F Annual bonuses are declared and credited each year to with-profits policies.
The annual bonuses increase policy benefits and, once credited, become guaranteed.
Annual bonuses are charged to the profit and loss account in the year declared.
Final bonuses are declared each year and accrued for all policies scheduled to mature and for death benefits expected to be paid during the next financial year.
Final bonuses are not guaranteed and are only paid on policies that result from claims through the death of the policyholder or maturity of the policy within the period of declaration or by concession on surrender.
No policyholder benefit provisions are recorded for future annual G or final bonus declarations.
From 1 January 2005, the previous UK GAAP basis was replaced under a policy improvement to align with the UK accounting standard FRS 27, Life Assurance.
FRS 27 is underpinned by the FSAs Peak 2 basis of reporting.
This Peak 2 basis, which came into effect for the first time for 2004 H regulatory reporting, requires the value of liabilities to be calculated as: a with-profits benefits reserve WPBR : plus future policy related liabilities FPRL : plus I the realistic current liabilities of the fund.
The WPBR is primarily based on the retrospective calculation of accumulated asset shares but is adjusted to reflect future policyholder benefits and other outgoings.
By contrast, the Peak 1 basis addresses, at least explicitly, only declared bonuses.
The FPRL must include a market consistent valuation of costs of guarantees, options and smoothing, less any related charges, and this amount is determined using either a stochastic approach, hedging costs or a series of deterministic projections with attributed probabilities.
Under the Peak 1 basis there is an allowance on a deterministic basis for the intrinsic value of these costs.
The assumptions used in the stochastic models are calibrated to produce risk-free returns on each asset class.
Volatilities of, and correlations between, investment returns from different asset classes are as determined by the Groups Portfolio Management Group but are also market consistent.
The cost of guarantees, options and smoothing is very sensitive to the bonus, market value reduction MVR and investment policy the Group employs and therefore the stochastic modelling incorporates a range of management actions that would help to protect the fund in adverse scenarios.
Substantial flexibility has been included in the modelled management actions in order to reflect the discretion that the Group retains in adverse investment conditions, thereby avoiding the creation of unreasonable minimum capital requirements.
The management actions assumed are consistent with managements policy for with-profits funds and the disclosures made in the publicly available Principles and Practices of Financial Management.
114 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Primary Parent statements company EEV Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements A4: Significant accounting policies continued Under FRS 27, the main changes that are required for UK with-profits funds are: derecognition of deferred acquisition costs and related deferred tax: and replacement of MSB liabilities for with-profits business with adjusted realistic basis liabilities.
A Adjusted realistic basis liabilities represent the Peak 2 basis realistic liabilities for with-profits business included in Form 19 of the FSA regulatory returns, but after excluding the element for the shareholders share of the future bonuses.
This latter item is recognised as a liability for the purposes of regulatory returns but, for accounting purposes under FRS 27, consistent with the current basis of financial reporting, shareholder transfers are recognised only on declaration.
B Unallocated surplus The unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits funds.
In 2006 and 2005, as allowed under IFRS 4, the Group has opted to continue to record unallocated surplus of with-profits funds wholly as a liability.
The annual excess shortfall of income over expenditure of the with-profits funds, after declaration and attribution of the cost of bonuses C to policyholders and shareholders, is transferred to from the unallocated surplus each year through a charge credit to the income statement.
The balance retained in the unallocated surplus represents cumulative income arising on the with-profits business that has not been allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
The balance of the unallocated surplus is determined after full provision for deferred tax on unrealised appreciation on investments.
D Other insurance contracts i. e. contracts which contain significant insurance risk as defined under IFRS 4 For these contracts UK GAAP has been applied, which reflects the MSB.
Under this basis the following approach applies: Other UK insurance contracts Other UK insurance contracts that contain significant insurance risk include unit-linked, annuity and other non-profit business.
For the E purposes of local regulations, segregated accounts are established for linked business for which policyholder benefits are wholly or partly determined by reference to specific investments or to an investment-related index.
The interest rates used in establishing policyholder benefit provisions for pension annuities in the course of payment are adjusted each year.
Mortality rates used in establishing policyholder benefit provisions were based on published mortality tables adjusted to reflect actual experience.
F Overseas subsidiaries The assets and liabilities of insurance contracts of overseas subsidiaries are determined initially using local GAAP bases of accounting with subsequent adjustments where necessary to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Jackson The future policyholder benefit provisions for Jacksons conventional protection-type policies are determined using the net level premium G method under US GAAP principles and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviations.
For non-conventional protection-type policies, the policyholder benefit provision included within policyholder liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet is the policyholder account balance.
For the business of Jackson, the determination of the expected emergence of margins, against which the amortisation profile of the DAC H asset is established, is dependent on certain key assumptions.
For single premium deferred annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns which, for 2006 and 2005, was 8.4 per cent per annum implemented using a mean reversion methodology.
These returns affect the level of future expected profits through their effects on fee income and the I required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
Jackson accounts for the majority of its investment portfolio on an available-for-sale basis see investment policies above whereby unrealised gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
As permitted by IFRS 4, Jackson has used shadow accounting.
Under shadow accounting, to the extent that recognition of unrealised gains or losses on available-for-sale securities causes adjustments to the carrying value and amortisation patterns of deferred acquisition costs and deferred income, these adjustments are recognised directly in equity to be consistent with the treatment of the gains or losses on the securities.
Asian operations The future policyholder benefit provisions for Asian businesses are determined in accordance with methods prescribed by local GAAP adjusted to comply, where necessary, with UK GAAP.
For the Hong Kong business, which is a branch of the PAC, and the Singapore and Malaysian operations the valuation principles and sensitivities to changes of assumptions of conventional with-profits and other protection-type policies are similar to those described above for equivalent products written by the UK operations.
For Asian operations in countries where local GAAP is not well established and in which the business written is primarily non-participating and linked business, US GAAP is used as the most appropriate proxy to local GAAP.
The future policyholder benefit provisions for nonlinked business are determined using the net level premium method, with an allowance for surrenders, maintenance and claim expenses.
Rates of interest used in establishing the policyholder benefit provisions vary by operation depending on the circumstances attaching to each block of business.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 115 Primary Parent EEV statements company Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued Although the basis of valuation of Prudentials overseas operations is in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and ABI SORP, the valuation of policyholder benefit provisions for these businesses may differ from that determined on a UK MSB for UK operations with the same features.
A Liability adequacy The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance provisions to ensure that the carrying amounts of provisions less related deferred acquisition costs and present value of in-force business see policy on Business Acquisitions and Disposals is sufficient to cover current estimates of future cash flows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash flows and compares this amount to the carrying value of the liability.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement.
B Reinsurance In the normal course of business, the Group seeks to reduce loss exposure by reinsuring certain levels of risk in various areas of exposure with other insurance companies or reinsurers.
An asset or liability is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet representing premiums due to or payments due from reinsurers and the share of losses recoverable from reinsurers.
The measurement of reinsurance assets is C consistent with the measurement of the underlying direct insurance contracts.
Gains arising on the purchase of reinsurance contracts by Jackson are deferred and amortised over the contract duration.
Any loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Investment contracts contracts which do not contain significant insurance risk as defined under IFRS 4 D For investment contracts with discretionary participation features, the accounting basis is consistent with the accounting for similar withprofits insurance contracts.
Other investment contracts are accounted for on a basis that reflects the hybrid nature of the arrangements whereby part is accounted for as a financial instrument under IAS 39 and the investment management service component is accounted for under IAS 18.
E For those investment contracts in the US with fixed and guaranteed terms, the Group uses the amortised cost model to measure the liability.
On contract inception, the liability is measured at fair value less incremental, directly attributable acquisition costs.
Remeasurement at future reporting dates is on an amortised cost basis utilising an effective interest rate methodology whereby the interest rate utilised discounts to the net carrying amount of the financial liability.
F Those investment contracts without fixed and guaranteed terms are designated at fair value through profit and loss.
Fair value is based upon the fair value of the underlying assets of the fund.
Where the contract includes a surrender option its carrying value is subject to a minimum carrying value equal to its surrender value.
c Other assets, liabilities, income and expenditure G Basis of consolidation The Group consolidates those entities it is deemed to control.
The degree of control is determined by the ability of the Group to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits.
Consideration is given to other factors such as potential voting rights.
The Group has consolidated some special purpose entities SPEs, such as funds holding collateralised debt obligations CDOs where H equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties.
These SPEs are consolidated because the Group is deemed to control them under IFRS.
The Group holds investments in internally and externally managed Open-ended Investment Companies OEICs and unit trusts.
The I Groups percentage ownership levels in these entities can fluctuate from day to day according to changes in the Groups and third party participation in the funds.
In instances where the Groups ownership of internally managed funds declines marginally below 50 per cent and, based on historical analysis and future expectations the decline in ownership is expected to be temporary, the funds continue to be consolidated as subsidiaries under IAS 27.
Where the Group exercises significant influence or has the power to exercise significant influence over an entity, generally through ownership of 20 per cent or more of the entitys voting rights, but does not control the entity, then this is considered to be an investment in an associate.
With the exception of those referred to below, the Groups investments in associates are recorded at the Groups share of the associates net assets.
The carrying value of investments in associates is adjusted each year for the Groups share of the entities profit or loss.
This does not apply to investments in associates held by the Groups insurance or investment funds including the venture capital business or mutual funds and unit trusts, which are carried at fair value through profit and loss.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are recognised using proportional consolidation whereby the Groups share of an entitys individual balances are combined line-by-line with similar items into the Group financial statements.
Other interests in entities, where significant influence is not exercised, are carried as investments at fair value through profit and loss.
116 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Primary Parent statements company EEV Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements A4: Significant accounting policies continued The consolidated financial statements of the Group include the assets, liabilities and results of the Company and subsidiary undertakings in which Prudential has a controlling interest, using accounts drawn up to 31 December 2006 except where entities have non-coterminous year ends.
In such cases, the information consolidated is based on the accounting period of these entities and is adjusted for material changes up to 31 December.
Accordingly, the information consolidated is deemed to cover the same period for all entities throughout A the Group.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date acquired to the effective date of disposal.
All inter-company transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Results of investment management activities include those for managing internal funds.
Investment properties B Investments in tenant occupied leasehold and freehold properties are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value included in the income statement.
Properties are valued annually either by the Groups qualified surveyors or professional external valuers using the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS guidelines.
The RICS guidelines apply separate assumptions to the value of the land, buildings and tenancy associated with each property.
Each property is externally valued at least once every three years.
The cost of additions and renovations is capitalised and considered when estimating fair value.
C Leases of investment property where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases leasehold property.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Where a lease has a contingent rent element, the rent is calculated in accordance with individual lease terms and charged as an expense as incurred.
D Pension schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world.
The largest of these schemes is the PSPS, a defined benefit scheme.
The Group also operates defined contribution schemes.
Defined contribution schemes are schemes where the Company pays contributions into a fund and the Company has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions should the assets of that E fund be insufficient to pay the employee benefits relating to employee service in both current and prior periods.
Defined benefit schemes are post-employment benefit plans that are not defined contribution schemes.
For the Groups defined benefit schemes, if the present value of the defined benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of the scheme assets, then a liability is recorded in the Groups balance sheet.
The Group utilises the projected unit credit method to calculate the F defined benefit obligation.
Estimated future cash flows are then discounted at a high-quality corporate bond rate to determine its present value.
These calculations are performed by independent actuaries.
The plan assets of the Groups pension schemes exclude several insurance contracts that have been issued by the Group.
These assets are excluded from plan assets in determining the pension obligation recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
G The aggregate of the actuarially determined service costs of the currently employed personnel and the unwind of discount on liabilities at the start of the period, less the expected investment return on scheme assets at the start of the period, is charged to the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses as a result of changes in assumptions or experience variances are also charged or credited to the income statement.
H Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are expensed when due.
Once paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
Any prepayments are reflected as an asset on the balance sheet.
Share-based payments The Group offers share award and option plans for certain key employees and a Save As You Earn SAYE plan for all UK and certain I overseas employees.
The arrangements for distribution to employees of shares held in trust relating to share award plans and for entitlement to dividends depend upon the particular terms of each plan.
Shares held in trust relating to these plans are conditionally gifted to employees.
The compensation expense charged to the income statement is primarily based upon the fair value of the options granted, the vesting period and the vesting conditions.
The Group revises its estimate of the number of options likely to be exercised at each balance sheet date and adjusts the charge to the income statement accordingly.
Where the share-based payment depends upon vesting outcomes attaching to market-based performance conditions, additional modelling is performed to estimate the fair value of the awards.
No subsequent adjustment is then made to the fair value charge for awards that do not vest on account of these performance conditions not being met.
The Company has established trusts to facilitate the delivery of Prudential plc shares under employee incentive plans and savings-related share option schemes.
None of the trusts that hold shares for employee incentive and savings plans continue to hold these shares once they are issued to employees.
The cost to the Company of acquiring these treasury shares held in trusts is shown as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 117 Primary Parent EEV statements company Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued Tax The Groups UK subsidiaries each file separate tax returns.
Jackson and other foreign subsidiaries, where permitted, file consolidated income tax returns.
In accordance with UK tax legislation, where one domestic UK company is a 75 per cent owned subsidiary of another UK company or both are 75 per cent owned subsidiaries of a common parent, the companies are considered to be within the same UK tax A group.
For companies within the same tax group, trading profits and losses arising in the same accounting period may be offset for purposes of determining current and deferred taxes.
Current tax expense is charged or credited to operations based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable operations for the current year.
To the extent that losses of an individual UK company are not offset in any one year, they can B be carried back for one year or carried forward indefinitely to be offset against profits arising from the same company.
Deferred taxes are provided under the liability method for all relevant temporary differences, being the difference between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its value for tax purposes.
IAS 12, Income Taxes does not require all temporary differences to be provided for, in particular, the Group does not provide for deferred tax on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where C the Group is able to control the timing of the distribution and the temporary difference created is not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The tax effects of losses available for carry forward are recognised as an asset.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised when it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax related to charges or credits taken directly to equity is also credited or charged directly to equity and is subsequently recognised in the income statement together with the deferred gain or loss.
D The tax charge for long-term business includes tax expense on with-profits funds attributable to both the policyholders and the shareholders.
Different tax rules apply under UK law depending upon whether the business is life insurance or pension business.
Tax on the life insurance business is based on investment returns less expenses attributable to that business.
Tax on the pension business is based on the shareholders profits or losses attributable to that business.
The shareholders portion of the long-term business is taxed at the E shareholders rate with the remaining portion taxed at rates applicable to the policyholders.
Basis of presentation of tax charges Historically, under Companies Act requirements, tax charges attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies were charged, together with tax charges attributable to the long-term business result attributable to shareholders, F as an expense in the long-term business technical account of the profit and loss account.
In the non-technical section i. e. the summary profit and loss section attributable to shareholders the post-tax balance transferred from the long-term business technical account was grossed up by attributable shareholder tax to derive the pre-shareholder tax long-term business result.
Tax charges in the non-technical account reflected the aggregate of the shareholder tax on the long-term business result and on the Groups other results.
G Under UK Listing Authority rules, profit before tax is required to be presented.
This requirement, coupled with the fact that IFRS does not contemplate tax charges which are attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies, necessitates the reporting of total tax charges within the presented results.
The result before all taxes i. e. profit before tax as shown in the income statement represents income net of post-tax transfers to unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, before tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, unit-linked policies and shareholders.
Separately within the income statement, H profit before tax attributable to shareholders is shown after deduction of taxes attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
Tax charges on this measure of profit reflect the tax charges attributable to shareholders.
In determining the tax charges attributable to shareholders, the Group has applied a methodology consistent with that previously applied under UK GAAP reflecting the broad principles underlying the tax legislation of life assurance companies.
I Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment such as owner occupied property, computer equipment and furniture and fixtures, are carried at depreciated cost.
Costs including expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets are capitalised.
Depreciation is calculated and charged on a straight-line basis over an assets estimated useful life.
The residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
If the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its recoverable amount then its carrying value is written down to that recoverable amount.
Leasehold improvements to owner occupied property are depreciated over the life of the lease.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at their fair value.
Business acquisitions and disposals Business acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting, which adjusts the net assets of the acquired company to fair value at the date of purchase.
The excess of the costs of acquisition over the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded as goodwill.
Should the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the entity exceed the cost of acquisition then this amount is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Income and expenses of acquired entities are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Revenues and expenses of entities sold during the period are included in the income statement up to the date of disposal.
The gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between sale proceeds, net of selling costs, less the net assets of the entity at the date of disposal.
118 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Primary Parent statements company EEV Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements A4: Significant accounting policies continued For life insurance company acquisitions, the adjusted net assets include an identifiable intangible asset for the present value of in-force business which represents the profits that are expected to emerge from the acquired insurance business.
The present value of in-force business is calculated using best estimate actuarial assumptions for interest, mortality, persistency and expenses and is amortised over the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
An intangible asset may also be recognised in respect of acquired investment A management contracts representing the fair value of contractual rights acquired under these contracts.
The Company uses the economic entity method to purchase minority interests.
Under the economic entity method any difference between consideration and the share of net assets acquired is recorded directly in equity.
B Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses is capitalised and carried on the Group balance sheet as an intangible asset at initial value less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill impairment testing is conducted annually and when there is an indication of impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units.
These cash generating units reflect the smallest group of assets that includes the goodwill and generates cash flows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from C other groups of assets.
If the carrying amount of the cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount then the goodwill is considered impaired.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement and may not be reversed in future periods.
Acquired intangible assets Intangible assets acquired on the purchase of a subsidiary or portfolio of contracts are valued at acquisition and carried at amortised cost.
D Amortisation calculated is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly E liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition.
Rights of offset Assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements are only reported on a net basis when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
F Segments In accordance with IAS 14, Segment Reporting the Group reports its results and certain other financial information by primary and secondary segments.
The Groups primary segments are its business segments, namely, long-term business, banking and broker-dealer and fund management.
The Groups secondary segments are its geographical segments, namely, UK, US and Asia.
G Shareholders dividends Dividends to shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared.
Where scrip dividends are issued, the value of such shares, measured as the amount of the cash dividend alternative, is credited to reserves and the amount in excess of the nominal value of the shares issued is transferred from the share premium account to retained earnings.
H Share capital Where there is no obligation to transfer assets, shares are classified as equity.
The difference between the proceeds received on issue of the shares, net of share issue costs, and the nominal value of the shares issued, is credited to share premium.
Where the Company purchases shares for the purposes of employee incentive plans, the consideration paid, net of issue costs, is deducted from retained earnings.
Upon issue or sale any consideration received is credited to retained earnings net of related costs.
I Foreign exchange The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the Groups presentation currency.
Accordingly, the results and financial position of foreign subsidiaries must be translated into the presentation currency of the Group from their functional currencies, i. e. the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
All assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are converted at year end exchange rates whilst all income and expenses are converted at average exchange rates where this is a reasonable approximation of the rates prevailing on transaction dates.
The impact of these currency translations is recorded as a separate component of equity.
Foreign currency borrowings that have been used to provide a hedge against Group equity investments in overseas subsidiaries, are translated at year end exchange rates and taken directly to shareholders equity.
Other foreign currency monetary items are translated at year end exchange rates with changes recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency transactions are translated at the spot rate prevailing at the time.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 119 Primary Parent EEV statements company Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements continued A4: Significant accounting policies continued d Presentation of supplementary analysis of profit before tax attributable to shareholders The Group provides supplementary analysis of profit before tax attributable to shareholders that distinguishes operating profit based on longer-term investment returns from other constituent elements of the total profit.
A Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns Prior to the adoption of IFRS, under UK GAAP, the Group used operating profit based on longer-term investment returns before amortisation of goodwill as a supplemental measure of its results.
For the purposes of measuring operating profit, investment returns on shareholder-financed business were based on the expected longer-term rates of return.
B Under IFRS, the Group continues to use operating profit based on longer-term investment returns as a supplemental measure of its results.
In determining profit on this basis the following key elements are applied to the results of the Groups shareholder-financed operations.
i Debt securities and equity securities C Longer-term investment returns comprise income and longer-term capital returns.
For debt securities the longer-term capital returns comprise two elements.
These are a risk margin reserve based charge for expected defaults, which is determined by reference to the credit quality of the portfolio, and amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses to operating results based on longer-term investment returns to the date when sold bonds would have otherwise matured.
ii Derivative value movements D Value movements for Jacksons equity-based derivatives and variable annuity product embedded derivatives are included in operating profits based on longer-term investment returns.
The inclusion of these movements is so as to broadly match with the results on the Jackson variable annuity book that pertain to equity market movements.
Other derivative value movements are excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
These derivatives are E primarily held by Jackson as part of a broadly-based hedging programme for features of Jacksons bond portfolio for which value movements are booked directly to shareholders equity rather than income statement and product liabilities for which US GAAP accounting does not reflect the economic features being hedged.
These key elements are of most importance in determining the operating results based on longer-term investment returns of Jackson.
F Items excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns Items excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns but included in profit before tax attributable to shareholders of continuing operations, include goodwill impairment charges, short-term fluctuations in investment returns i. e. actual less longer-term returns, actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes and exceptional items.
G With the exception of derivatives used for managing equity exposure of Jackson and other derivatives where value movements match other items in operating results based on longer-term investment returns, value movements on derivatives held by Jackson are included within short-term fluctuations.
For the purposes of distinguishing actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes in this analysis, plan assets include Prudential policies held by the schemes.
H I 120 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Primary Parent statements company EEV Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements A5: Adoption of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 at 1 January 2005 The standards of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 were adopted on 1 January 2005.
The principal effects of adopting these standards arose in the Groups UK long-term business contracts, Jacksons debt securities and derivative instruments and Eggs banking assets, liabilities and derivatives positions.
A The following table demonstrates the effects of adoption of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 on the IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2005.
Effect of adoption of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Banking UK and nonGrossing-up insurance insurance and other B At 31 Dec operations Jackson operations format At 1 Jan 2004 note i note ii note iii changes Total effect 2005 m m m m m m m Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: C Goodwill 1,461 1,461 Deferred acquisition costs and acquired in-force value of long-term business 2,244 23 456 433 1,811 Total 3,705 23 456 433 3,272 D Intangible assets attributable to PAC with-profits fund: In respect of acquired venture fund investment subsidiaries 858 858 Deferred acquisition costs 798 765 765 33 Total 1,656 765 765 891 E Total 5,361 742 456 1,198 4,163 Other non-investment and non-cash assets: Property, plant and equipment 967 967 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 1,018 1,018 Deferred tax assets 827 10 67 7 84 911 F Current tax recoverable 159 159 Accrued investment income 1,733 50 50 1,683 Other debtors 1,171 1 49 50 1,121 Total 5,875 10 66 92 16 5,859 G Investments of long-term business, banking and other operations: Investment properties 13,303 13,303 Investments accounted for using the equity method 5 5 H Financial investments: Loans and receivables 12,430 55 58 3 12,433 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 54,466 21 21 54,445 Debt securities 76,374 76 1,023 2 945 77,319 Other investments 2,537 1 234 89 95 419 2,956 I Deposits 5,271 6 5 27 16 5,255 Total investments 164,386 145 1,262 145 68 1,330 165,716 Held for sale assets 100 100 Cash and cash equivalents 4,341 4,341 Total assets 180,063 877 872 53 68 116 180,179 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 121 Primary Parent EEV statements company Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements continued A5: Adoption of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 at 1 January 2005 continued Effect of adoption of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Banking UK and nonGrossing-up insurance insurance and other At 31 Dec operations Jackson operations format At 1 Jan A 2004 note i note ii note iii changes Total effect 2005 m m m m m m m Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 4,489 22 273 25 226 4,715 B Minority interests 137 3 3 134 Total equity 4,626 22 273 28 223 4,849 Liabilities Banking customer accounts 6,607 84 84 6,691 C Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus: Insurance contract liabilities 103,582 103,582 103,582 Investment contract liabilities with discretionary participation features 22,661 22,661 22,661 Unallocated surplus of the with-profits funds: D Reflecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK regulated with-profits funds 8,315 8,315 8,315 Reflecting previous UK GAAP basis of provisioning 16,122 7,807 8,315 16,122 Investment contract liabilities without discretionary E participation features 9,788 9,788 9,788 Technical provisions in respect of non-linked business 104,996 7,020 51 111,965 104,996 Technical provisions for linked liabilities 24,066 24,066 24,066 Total policyholder liabilities 145,184 787 51 0 838 144,346 F Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations: Subordinated debt other than Egg 1,429 5 5 1,434 Other 1,368 1,368 2,797 5 5 2,802 G Egg subordinated debt 451 451 Total 3,248 5 5 3,253 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 6,421 207 62 13 256 6,677 H Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 2,137 2,137 Other non-insurance liabilities: Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 3,819 3,819 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of I consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 808 808 Current tax liabilities 1,018 4 4 1,014 Deferred tax liabilities 2,350 91 218 6 121 2,471 Accruals and deferred income 655 88 88 567 Other creditors 1,009 8 54 46 963 Provisions 1,006 1,006 Other liabilities 1,175 15 229 83 76 403 1,578 Total other non-insurance liabilities 11,840 68 443 65 76 386 12,226 Total liabilities 175,437 855 599 81 68 107 175,330 Total equity and liabilities 180,063 877 872 53 68 116 180,179 Notes The changes shown above include the impact of remeasurement for: i UK insurance operations a The reduction in shareholders equity of 22 million includes 20 million relating to certain unit-linked and similar contracts that do not contain significant insurance risk and are therefore categorised as investment contracts under IFRS 4.
122 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Primary Parent statements company EEV Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements A5: Adoption of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 at 1 January 2005 continued Notes continued b Changes to insurance assets and liabilities of the PAC with-profits fund following the improvement of accounting policy applied on adoption of IFRS 4.
The changes correspond to those applicable if the Group had adopted FRS 27 under UK GAAP.
As a result of the policy improvement, liabilities, deferred acquisition costs, deferred tax and unallocated surplus of UK regulated with-profits funds are remeasured as described in note A4.
At 1 January 2005, the unallocated surplus is subject to a transition adjustment of 7.8 billion.
Shareholders equity is not affected by this change.
A The unallocated surplus of 8.3 billion at 1 January 2005 post-IAS 39 and IFRS 4 adoption, comprises 8.0 billion for the PAC with-profits fund and 0.3 billion for Asian subsidiaries.
The 8.0 billion for the PAC with-profits fund represents: bn Regulatory basis realistic surplus of with-profits sub-fund and SAIF 6.0 Add back: regulatory basis provision for future shareholder transfers 2.9 B Less: other adjustments to align with accounting basis 0.9 Accounts basis 8.0 ii Jackson Under IAS 39, Jacksons debt securities and derivative financial instruments are remeasured to fair value from the lower of amortised cost and, if relevant, impaired value.
Fair value movements on debt securities, net of shadow changes to deferred acquisition costs and related deferred tax are recorded directly to equity.
Fair value movements C on derivatives are recorded in the income statement.
iii Banking and non-insurance operations Under IAS 39, for Egg, changes to opening equity at 1 January 2005 arise from altered policies for effective interest rate on credit card receivables, impairment losses on loans and advances, fair value adjustments on wholesale financial instruments and embedded derivatives in equity savings products.
The net effect on shareholders equity of these changes, after tax, is a deduction of 15 million.
A further 10 million reduction in equity arises on fair valuation of certain centrally held financial instruments and derivatives.
D A6: New accounting pronouncements The following standards, interpretations and amendments have either been effective and adopted in 2006 or have been issued but are not yet effective in 2006.
This is not intended to be a complete list as only those standards, interpretations and amendments that are E anticipated to have an impact upon the Groups financial statements have been discussed.
Accounting pronouncements adopted in 2006 Amendment to IAS 39, Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intra-Group Transactions Amendments in respect of cash flow hedge accounting of forecast intra-group transactions were issued in April 2005 to clarify the accounting treatment of certain foreign currency cash flow hedges.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on F or after 1 January 2006.
Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4, Financial Guarantee Contracts Issued in August 2005, the amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 in respect of financial guarantee contracts are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
These amendments define a financial guarantee contract and address initial and subsequent G measurement issues.
These amendments apply even if the contract meets the definition of an insurance contract under IFRS 4 although they allow continuation of accounting under IFRS 4 if the contracts were considered to be insurance contracts and documented as such.
Amendment to IAS 21, Net Investment in a Foreign Operation Issued in December 2005, the amendments to IAS 21 clarify the definition of a foreign operation and the recognition of exchange difference H in a net investment in a foreign operation.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
The adoption of these aforementioned amendments did not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Accounting pronouncements not yet effective IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures I IFRS 7 replaces IAS 30, Disclosures in the Financial Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions, which dealt with disclosures for banking operations, and the disclosure requirements of IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
The latter, therefore, becomes a standard dealing wholly with presentation of financial instruments.
IFRS 7 is intended to complement the principles for recognising, measuring and presenting financial assets and financial liabilities in IAS 32 and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The objective of IFRS 7 is to require entities to provide disclosures in their financial statements to enable the users of financial statements to evaluate the significance of financial instruments for the entitys financial position and performance and the nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments to which the entity is exposed and how the entity manages those risks.
Consequential amendments have been made to other standards as a result of the release of IFRS 7, notably IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, and IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts.
IFRS 7 was issued on 18 August 2005 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
Revised IFRS 4, Implementation Guidance Revised IFRS 4, Implementation Guidance, was issued in December 2005 and is effective in conjunction with the adoption of IFRS 7 as discussed above.
The revisions relate to disclosures around insurance contracts.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 123 Primary Parent EEV statements company Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements continued A6: New accounting pronouncements continued Amendment to IAS 1, Capital Disclosures As a result of the issue of IFRS 7, IAS 1 was amended in August 2005 to include a requirement to disclose information on the entitys objectives, policies and processes for managing capital.
This amendment will become effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
A IFRS 8, Operating Segments IFRS 8 requires entities to adopt the management approach to reporting the financial performance of its operating segments.
The amount of each operating segment item to be reported is the measure reported to the chief operating decision maker, which in some instances will be non-GAAP.
IFRS 8 will require the Group to provide an explanation of the basis on which the segment information is prepared and a B reconciliation to the amount recognised in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
This standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 9 will require the Group to assess whether an embedded derivative is required to be separated from the host contract and accounted C for as a derivative when it first becomes a party to the contract.
Subsequent reassessment is prohibited unless there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that otherwise would be required under the contract, in which case a reassessment is required.
This interpretation became effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006.
IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment D IFRIC 10 addresses the apparent conflict between the requirements of IAS 34, Interim Financial Reporting, and those in other standards on the recognition and reversal in financial statements of impairment losses on goodwill and certain financial assets.
IFRIC 10 states that any such impairment losses recognised in an interim financial statement may not be reversed in subsequent interim or annual financial statements.
This interpretation became effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
E The Group is currently assessing the impact of the aforementioned standards, interpretations and amendments on its financial statements.
The Group has not early adopted any of the above noted items.
