Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirty-sixth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 159 New Bond Street, London W1S 2UD on Wednesday 2 May 2007 at 12.00 noon to consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 14 are ordinary resolutions requiring a majority of more than 50%.
Resolution 10 is an ordinary resolution requiring special notice to members and notice to the former auditor.
Resolution 14 is an ordinary resolution but is classied by Article 61 of the Articles of Association of the Company as non-routine, special business.
Resolutions 15 to 17 are special resolutions requiring a majority of 75% or more.
2006 Report and Accounts 1 To adopt the Report of the Directors and the Audited Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006.
2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The Remuneration report can be found on pages 37 to 45.
The Companies Act 1985 requires the preparation of this report which must be approved by shareholders in general meeting.
This does not affect the directors entitlements to remuneration and the result of this resolution is advisory only.
Final dividend 3 To approve the final dividend of 21.5p per share for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The payment of the final dividend requires the approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Re-election of directors 4 To re-elect Mr J C Barclay as a director of the Company.
5 To re-elect Miss C M Burton as a director of the Company.
6 To re-elect Mr R P Lanyon as a director of the Company.
7 To re-elect Mr A T Morris as a director of the Company.
8 To re-elect Mr A D Pomfret as a director of the Company.
9 To re-elect Mr R I Smeeton as a director of the Company.
Biographical details of the directors seeking re-election can be found on pages 26 to 28.
Article 95 requires that each director who has not been elected or re-elected by the members at either of the two immediately previous AGMs shall retire from ofce and seek re-election.
Following formal performance evaluation of the Board and individual appraisal by the chairman, all six continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment to the role.
Auditors 10 To appoint  LLP as auditors until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting before which accounts are laid.
11 To authorise the directors to agree the remuneration of the auditors.
KPMG Audit Plc stood down as auditors during 2006 and  LLP was appointed by the directors to ll the casual vacancy.
The Companies Act 1985 requires that special notice be given of the ordinary resolution appointing the new auditors and that the notice of the resolution be given to the former auditors.
Political expenditure 12 That the Company and any company which is or becomes a subsidiary of the Company during the period to which this resolution relates be and is hereby authorised: a to make Donations to EU Political Organisations: and b to incur EU Political Expenditure Provided that: i the authority conferred by this resolution shall commence on the date on which it is passed and expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2008 or within 15 months from the date of passing this resolution, whichever is the earlier: ii the aggregate amount of such donations and expenditure made by the Company shall not exceed 50,000: and 106 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI iii in this resolution the expressions Donation, EU Political Organisations and EU Political Expenditure have the meaning set out in Part XA of the Companies Act 1985.
Part XA of the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 the Act prohibits the Company and its subsidiaries from making donations of more than 5,000 in any twelve month period to organisations within the European Community which are, or could be, categorised as EU Political Organisations unless they have been authorised to make donations by the Companys shareholders.
The Company has a policy that it does not make donations to political parties and the Board will not use these authorities, if given, to do so.
The Act, however, includes very broad and ambiguous denitions of political donations and expenditure, which may have the effect of covering some normal business activities, and therefore presents potential for inadvertent or technical breach.
The Board therefore considers that it would be prudent to obtain shareholder approval for the Company to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure up to the specified limits in the forthcoming year.
Authority to post shareholder communications on a website and by other electronic means 13 That the Company may send or supply any document or information to members by making it available on a website.
This ordinary resolution, if passed, will allow the Company both to communicate with shareholders using email and to make information and documents available to them through a website, rather than through the post, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the new Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
If this resolution is passed and the Company wishes to use these methods to communicate with shareholders, it will first write to shareholders requesting their agreement to i the Company communicating with them by e-mail and ii the Company's use of a website for the purpose of providing documents and other information.
The Company would continue to communicate in the usual way with those shareholders who do not agree to email communications and would continue to provide documents and information through the post in the usual way to those shareholders who are not treated under the Companies Act 2006 as having agreed to their provision through a website.
Authority to allot relevant securities 14 That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as dened in the said section 80 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 690,000.
The authority given by this resolution shall expire 15 months after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or adjournment thereof after the passing of this resolution.
Notwithstanding such expiry, the authority shall still permit the Company to make allotments of relevant securities in respect of offers or agreements made before such expiry which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry.
All previous authorities to directors to allot relevant securities are hereby revoked without prejudice to any allotment of securities pursuant thereto.
This ordinary resolution is proposed annually in order to provide a measure of authority to the directors to allot ordinary shares, limited to approximately 33% of the issued share capital of the Company at 28 February 2007, in circumstances dened by the resolution so as to enable them to respond, in the interests of the Company, to any appropriate opportunities that may arise.
Power to waive pre-emption rights 15 a That the directors be and they are hereby empowered in accordance with section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities as dened in section 94 of the Act, payment for which is to be wholly in cash i in connection with a rights issue: and ii otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 100,000 as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment.
References herein to the allotment of equity securities shall include the sale of treasury shares within the meaning of section 162A of the Act.
b The power in paragraph a above, insofar as it relates to the allotment of equity securities rather than the sale of treasury shares, is granted pursuant to the resolution conferring authority under section 80 of the Act passed on the date hereof.
107 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Power to waive pre-emption rights continued c For the purposes of this resolution rights issue means an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period xed by the directors to holders other than the Company on the register on a record date xed by the directors of ordinary shares in proportion to their respective holdings for which purpose holdings in certicated and uncerticated form may be treated as separate holdings but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any territory.
d The powers given by this resolution shall expire 15 months after the passing of this resolution or if earlier on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or adjournment thereof after the passing of this resolution.
This first special resolution seeks authority, limited to approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at 28 February 2007, regarding allotments, other than to members proportionately to their respective shareholdings and for which payment is to be wholly in cash.
Additionally, the resolution seeks authority for the Company to sell or otherwise deal with treasury shares being shares acquired and held by the Company without necessarily involving shareholders.
Over the three years to 31 December 2006, shares with a nominal value of 80,411 were allotted for cash, representing 3.8% of the issued share capital at that date.
Renewal of this limited authority will enable the directors to issue shares, in the interests of the Company, in response to any appropriate opportunities that may arise.
For transactions of a substantial nature involving the allotment of shares, it is normal for the UK Listing Authority or company law to require shareholder approval for the specic transaction notwithstanding this general authority.
Authority to purchase ordinary shares 16 That the directors be and they are hereby granted pursuant to Article 12 of the Articles of Association of the Company general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as dened by section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of any of its ordinary shares of 5p each upon and subject to the following conditions: a the maximum number of ordinary shares in the Company hereby authorised to be acquired is 2,000,000 shares, being approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at 28 February 2007 : b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 5p: c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased and ii the amount stipulated by Article 5 i of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case, exclusive of expenses : and d the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2008 or within 15 months from the date of passing this resolution, whichever is the earlier, except that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of such authority enter into a contract for the purchase of ordinary shares which would or might be completed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may complete a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
This second special resolution is to renew the authority granted to the directors at the Annual General Meeting on 3 May 2006 to purchase the Companys own ordinary shares under certain stringent conditions.
The authority will be used only when the directors consider that it would be advantageous to the Company and the effect would be to enhance earnings per share.
Shares purchased will be held as treasury shares as dened in section 162A of the Companies Act 1985.
At 28 February 2007 there were options outstanding to subscribe for 1,413,561 new ordinary shares in the Company.
This represents approximately 3.3% of the issued ordinary capital of the Company at that date and would represent approximately 3.5% if the authority to buy back shares under this resolution were used in full.
108 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Amendment of Memorandum and Articles of Association 17 That: a the Memorandum of Association of the Company be and it is hereby amended by the insertion of the following subparagraphs as sub-paragraphs 7 i, ii and iii of paragraph 4 and the renumbering of existing sub-paragraphs 7 to 13 of paragraph 4 as 8 to 14 : 7 i To such extent as may be permitted by law to indemnify any persons who are or were at any time directors, ofcers or employees of the Company, or of any associated company, or who are or were at any time trustees of any pension fund or employees share scheme in which any employees of the Company or of any associated company are interested, including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing against any liability incurred by such persons in respect of any act or omission in the actual or purported execution and or discharge of their duties and or in exercise or purported exercise of their powers and or otherwise in relation to the Company or associated company or pension fund: ii a to provide a director, officer or employee with funds to meet expenditure incurred or to be incurred by him in defending any criminal or civil proceedings or in connection with any application under those provisions of the Companies Act 1985 referred to in Section 337A 2 of that Act and b to do anything to enable a director, officer or employee to avoid incurring such expenditure: iii in this paragraph 4 7 an associated company is any company a which is the Companys holding company or b in which the Company or its holding company or any of the predecessors of the Company or of such holding company has any interest whether direct or indirect or c which is in any way associated with the Company or its holding company or any of the predecessors of the Company or of such holding company, or d which is a subsidiary undertaking of any other associated company: and holding company and subsidiary undertaking have the same meanings as in the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Companies Act 1989: and b the Articles of Association of the Company be and they are hereby amended by: i inserting the following sub-paragraph G into Article 105: G any contract, proposal or arrangement concerning a indemnities in favour of him or b the funding of expenditure by him on defending proceedings against himself or c doing anything to enable him to avoid incurring such expenditure.
ii deleting the existing Article 152 and substituting therefor the following new Article 152: A Subject to the provisions of, and so far as may be permitted by and consistent with, the Statutes, every Director, Secretary and other officer of the Company may be indemnified by the Company out of its own funds against i any liability incurred by or attaching to him in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust by him in relation to the Company in the actual or purported execution and or discharge of his duties and or the exercise or purported exercise of his powers other than a any liability to the Company or any associated company as dened in Section 309A 6 of the Act and b any liability of the kind referred to in Section 309B 3 or 4 of the Act: and ii any other liability incurred by or attaching to him in the actual or purported execution and or discharge of his duties and or the exercise or purported exercise of his powers and or otherwise in relation to or in connection with his duties, powers or ofce.
Such indemnity may extend to all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities incurred by him in relation to such liability.
B Without prejudice to paragraph A of this Article, the Directors shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance for or for the benefit of i any person who is or was at any time a Director, Secretary or other officer of any Relevant Company as dened in paragraph C below or ii any person who is or was at any time a trustee of any pension fund or employees share scheme in which employees of any Relevant Company are interested, including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing insurance against any liability incurred by or attaching to him in respect of any act or omission in the actual or purported execution and or discharge of his duties and or in the exercise or purported exercise of his powers and or otherwise in relation to his duties, powers or ofces in relation to any Relevant Company or any such pension fund or employee share scheme and all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities incurred by him in relation thereto.
109 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Notice of Annual General Meeting continued C For the purpose of paragraph B above Relevant Company shall mean the Company, any holding company of the Company or any other body, whether or not incorporated, in which the Company or such holding company or any of the predecessors of the Company or of such holding company has or had any interest whether direct or indirect or which is in any way allied to or associated with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or of such other body.
D Subject to the provisions of and so far as may be permitted by the Statutes, the Company may i provide a Director, Secretary or officer with funds to meet expenditure incurred or to be incurred by him in defending any criminal or civil proceedings or in connection with any application under the provisions mentioned in Section 337A 2 of the Act and ii do anything to enable a Director, Secretary or officer to avoid incurring such expenditure, but so that the terms set out in Section 337A 4 of the Act shall apply to any such provision of funds or other things done.
The Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 came into force on 6 April 2005.
It inserted a new section 309A into the Companies Act 1985 the Act, which allows a company to indemnify its directors against any liability incurred by a director to any person other than the company or any associated company in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to that company.
Previously, this was prohibited under section 310 of the Act.
The new legislation also addresses the previous restriction on companies only being able to fund a directors defence costs once final judgment in his or her favour had been reached.
A new section 337A allows a company to provide its directors with funds to cover the costs incurred or to be incurred by a director in defending proceedings brought against him or her.
Since directors are increasingly being added as defendants in legal actions against companies, the Board believes that the risk of directors being placed under significant financial strain is increasing.
The Board feels that the provision of appropriate indemnities and the funding of directors defence costs as they are incurred or to be incurred, as permitted by the law, is fair and reasonable protection for the directors and is also important to ensure that the Company continues to attract and retain the highest calibre of director.
The Board therefore proposes that the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company be amended to reect these statutory provisions so that the Company may agree to fund a directors defence costs in the event that an action was brought against him or her.
The Board also proposes to amend the authority existing in the Articles of Association permitting it to indemnify the directors to reect the new legislation and to amend the Memorandum of Association in the same respect.
The proposed change to the Articles of Association contained in resolution 17, part b i is to ensure that directors can vote and be counted in the quorum at board meetings at which such indemnities and funding are considered.
By Order of the Board Richard Loader Company Secretary Registered Ofce: 159 New Bond Street, London W1S 2UD 27 March 2007 110 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Notes 1 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 and subject to the provisions for proxies, the Company species that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 30 April 2007 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 6pm on the day two days prior to the day xed for the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Subsequent changes to the entries on the register will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
2 Members entitled to attend and vote are entitled, if they so wish, to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote in their stead.
A proxy need not be a member.
Proxy forms should be completed and returned to Lloyds TSB Registrars at The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6ZR by no later than 12.00 noon on 30 April 2007.
The completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting at the AGM if you so wish.
The vote withheld option is provided on the proxy card to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
However, it should be noted that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a resolution.
3 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 2 May 2007 and any adjournment thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the of CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Lloyds TSB Registrars ID 7RA01 by no later than 12.00 noon on 30 April 2007.
No message received through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which our registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider take such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
4 A memorandum of the terms of all contracts of service between Directors and the Company or any of its subsidiaries is available for inspection at the Registered Ofce during business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded.
The Memorandum will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting, and during the meeting.
111 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI
