Business review Governance Accounts 116 Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies continued j Derivative financial instruments The company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market rates for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the profit and loss account.
The company does not currently hold any significant cash flow hedges.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
k Share based payments The company operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the company market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the profit and loss account, with a corresponding entry in equity.
2 Deferred taxation 2006 2005 m m The deferred taxation included in the balance sheet is as follows: Included in provisions and liabilities for charges 1.4 0.9 Accelerated capital allowances 1.4 0.9 3 Profit attributable to members of the parent undertaking The profit after taxation dealt with in the accounts of the parent undertaking was 189.5m 2005: 155.8m.
4 Dividends 2006 2005 m m Declared and paid during the year Ordinary shares equity : Final for 2005 paid: 4.9p per share 2004: 3.6p per share 31.1 24.0 Interim for 2006 paid 2.7p per share 2005: 2.1p per share 16.6 14.0 47.7 38.0 Proposed for approval at AGM not recognised as a liability at 31 December Ordinary shares equity : Final for 2006: 6.3p per share 2005: 4.9p per share 38.9 32.0 The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
