Business review Governance Accounts 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 1 Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 21 February 2007.
The Capita Group Plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
The principal activities of the Group are given in the business review onIpages 9-61.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and all of its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The parent company continues to apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its individual financial statements and these are contained onIpages 114-121. b Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under IFRS where certain financial instruments, separately identifiable intangibles acquired on business combinations and the pension assets and liabilities have been measured at fair value.
The carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million m except when otherwise indicated.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies, but in accordance with UK GAAP.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist between IFRS and UK GAAP.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which The Capita Group Plc has control.
d Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Adoption of these revised standards and interpretations did not have any effect on the financial statements of the Group.
They did, however, give rise to additional disclosures: IAS 21 Amendment The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates IAS 39 Amendments Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease The Group has also early adopted the following IFRS and IFRIC interpretations.
Adoption of these standards and interpretations did not have any effect on the financial position of the Group.
They did, however, give rise to additional disclosures: IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 The principal effects of these changes are as follows: IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements This amendment requires the Group to make new disclosures to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital.
These new disclosures are shown in note 24.
The Group has elected to early adopt this amendment to IAS 1.
IAS 19 Amendment Employee Benets This amendment to IAS 19 is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006 with earlier adoption encouraged.
The amendment requires additional disclosures providing information about trends in the assets and liabilities in the defined benefit plans and the assumptions underlying the components of the defined benefit cost.
The amendment also allowed the option of recognising all actuarial gains and losses outside of the income statement.
The Group had early adopted this amendment in the year ended 31 December 2005: consequently there will be no further impact on the financial statements this year.
IAS 21 Amendment The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates As of 1 January 2006, the Group adopted the amendments to IAS 21.
As a result, all exchange differences arising from a monetary item that forms part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in a separate component of equity in the consolidated financial statements regardless of the currency in which the monetary item is denominated.
This change has had no significant impact as at 31 December 2006 or 31 December 2005.
IAS 39 Amendments Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Amendment for Financial Guarantee Contracts issued August 2005 amended the scope of IAS 39 to require financial guarantee contracts that are not considered to be insurance contracts to be recognised initially at fair value and to be remeasured at the higher of the amount determined in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
This amendment did not have any effect on the financial statements.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
