Business review Governance Accounts 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 1 Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 21 February 2007.
The Capita Group Plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
The principal activities of the Group are given in the business review onIpages 9-61.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and all of its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The parent company continues to apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its individual financial statements and these are contained onIpages 114-121. b Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under IFRS where certain financial instruments, separately identifiable intangibles acquired on business combinations and the pension assets and liabilities have been measured at fair value.
The carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million m except when otherwise indicated.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies, but in accordance with UK GAAP.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist between IFRS and UK GAAP.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which The Capita Group Plc has control.
d Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Adoption of these revised standards and interpretations did not have any effect on the financial statements of the Group.
They did, however, give rise to additional disclosures: IAS 21 Amendment The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates IAS 39 Amendments Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease The Group has also early adopted the following IFRS and IFRIC interpretations.
Adoption of these standards and interpretations did not have any effect on the financial position of the Group.
They did, however, give rise to additional disclosures: IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 The principal effects of these changes are as follows: IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements This amendment requires the Group to make new disclosures to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital.
These new disclosures are shown in note 24.
The Group has elected to early adopt this amendment to IAS 1.
IAS 19 Amendment Employee Benets This amendment to IAS 19 is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006 with earlier adoption encouraged.
The amendment requires additional disclosures providing information about trends in the assets and liabilities in the defined benefit plans and the assumptions underlying the components of the defined benefit cost.
The amendment also allowed the option of recognising all actuarial gains and losses outside of the income statement.
The Group had early adopted this amendment in the year ended 31 December 2005: consequently there will be no further impact on the financial statements this year.
IAS 21 Amendment The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates As of 1 January 2006, the Group adopted the amendments to IAS 21.
As a result, all exchange differences arising from a monetary item that forms part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in a separate component of equity in the consolidated financial statements regardless of the currency in which the monetary item is denominated.
This change has had no significant impact as at 31 December 2006 or 31 December 2005.
IAS 39 Amendments Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Amendment for Financial Guarantee Contracts issued August 2005 amended the scope of IAS 39 to require financial guarantee contracts that are not considered to be insurance contracts to be recognised initially at fair value and to be remeasured at the higher of the amount determined in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
This amendment did not have any effect on the financial statements.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued d Changes in accounting policies continued Amendment for hedges of forecast intragroup transactions issued April 2005 amended IAS 39 to permit the foreign currency risk of a highly probable intragroup forecast transaction to qualify as the hedged item in a cash flow hedge, provided that the transaction is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity entering into that transaction and that the foreign currency risk will affect the consolidated income statement.
As the Group currently has no such transactions, the amendment did not have an effect on the financial statements.
Amendment for the fair value option issued June 2005 amended IAS 39 to restrict the use of the option to designate any financial asset or any financial liability to be measured at fair value through the income statement.
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease The Group adopted IFRIC Interpretation 4 as of 1 January 2006 which provides guidance in determining whether arrangements contain a lease to which lease accounting must be applied.
This change in accounting policy has not had a significant impact on the financial statements as at 31 December 2006 or 31 December 2005.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 The Group early adopted IFRIC Interpretation 8 as of 1 January 2006 which requires IFRS 2 to be applied to any arrangements where equity instruments are issued for consideration which appears to be less than fair value.
As equity instruments are only issued to employees in accordance with the Groups employee share schemes, the interpretation has had no impact on the financial position of the Group.
e Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Other than in respect of service contracts, described below, and where the Group is acting as lessor see v, revenue represents fee income recognised in respect of services provided during the period stated net of value added tax.
Revenue is earned within the United Kingdom, Europe, India and South-east Asia.
f Service contracts i Browneld outsourcing contracts Brownfield contracts are where there is a transfer of an existing operation to the Group.
For brownfield contracts all costs incurred prior to service commencement are expensed as incurred and revenue represents fee income in respect of services provided.
ii Greeneld outsourcing contracts A greenfield contract is one in which an entirely new service is being established for a customer.
For these contracts no profit is recognised until service delivery commences and is being invoiced.
Upon commencement, revenue represents fees invoiced in respect of services provided.
Direct incremental costs incurred on the contract prior to service commencement and reimbursable during the contract, excluding any overheads, are included in debtors and amortised over the life of the contract.
On some contracts, non-refundable payments are received, prior to full service commencement, on the achievement of agreed contract delivery milestones.
These are recognised as revenue when earned.
iii Property consultancy contracts Revenue represents the sales value of work done in the year, including fees invoiced and estimates in respect of amounts to be invoiced after the year-end.
Profits are recognised on long term contracts where the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty.
In calculating this the percentage of completion method is used based on the proportion of costs incurred to the total estimated cost.
Cost includes direct staff costs and outlays.
Full provision is made for all known or anticipated losses on each contract immediately such losses are forecast.
Gross amounts due from customers are stated at the proportion of the anticipated net sales value earned to date less amounts billed on account.
To the extent that fees paid on account exceed the value of work performed, they are included in creditors as gross amounts due to customers.
g Foreign currency translation The functional and presentation currency of The Capita Group Plc and its United Kingdom subsidiaries is the pound sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency shall be translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
The functional currencies of overseas operations include the euro, Indian rupee, Malaysian ringgit, South Korean won and the Philippine peso.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of the overseas operations are retranslated into the presentation currency of The Capita Group Plc at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and its income statement is translated at the weighted average exchange rate for the year.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement.
The Group has elected not to record cumulative translation differences arising prior to the transition date as permitted by IFRS 1.
In utilising this exemption, all cumulative translation differences are deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2004 and all subsequent disposals shall exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date of transition.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued h Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over 50 years Leasehold improvements period of the lease Plant and equipment 3 10 years The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the administrative expenses line item.
An item of property, plant and equipment is fide-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on fide-recognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year in which the item is fide-recognised.
i Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are currently recognised as an expense when incurred in accordance with the benchmark accounting treatment under IAS 23. j Goodwill Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at net book value as at this date.
This goodwill had been amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life ranging from 5 to 20 years.
This was changed on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill recognised subsequent to 1 January 2004 is, on acquisition, initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 remains set off directly against reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the business is disposed of.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in these circumstances is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
k Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those identified in a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
There were no indefinite-lived assets in 2005 or 2006.
Amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives, this expense is taken to the income statement through the administrative expenses line item.
Intangible assets with finite lives are only tested for impairment, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level, where there is an indicator of impairment.
Gains or losses arising from fide-recognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is fide-recognised.
Intangible assets identified and recognised since transition to IFRS are profiled as follows: Brands are amortised evenly over their useful economic lives of 5 and 10 years Software and licences are amortised over their useful economic lives of 5 years Contracts and committed sales are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 1.5 and 10 years Customer lists and relationships are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 4 and 10 years Other intangibles are amortised over their useful economic lives of 6.5 years l Recoverable amount of non-current assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued m Investments and available for sale financial assets All investments are initially recorded at the fair value of the consideration given including acquisition charges associated with the investment.
Subsequently they are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Trade investments are recognised at fair value.
Available for sale financial assets are measured at the fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised directly in equity.
When the investment is disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss previously recorded in equity is recognised in the income statement.
n Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
o Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of 3 months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts, except where no right of set-off exists.
p Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are fide-recognised, as well as through the amortisation process.
q Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
r Surplus properties The Group provides, on a discounted basis, for the future rent expense and related cost of leasehold property net of estimated sub-lease income where the space is vacant or currently not planned to be used for ongoing operations.
s Pre-contract costs Pre-contract award bidding costs are expensed as incurred.
t Pension schemes The Group maintains a number of defined contribution pension schemes and for these schemes the Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement for the year when they are due.
In addition, the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme and participates in a number of other defined benefit pension schemes, all of which require contributions to be made to separate trustee-administered funds.
The costs of providing benefits under these schemes are determined separately for each scheme using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes are conditional on employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the average vesting period.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The interest cost element of the defined benefit pension charge represents a change in the present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
In respect of 3 of the defined benefit pension schemes in which the Group participates, the Group accounts for its legal and constructive obligation over the period of its participation which is for a fixed period only.
Actuarial gains and losses are fully recognised in equity through the statement of recognised income and expense such that the balance sheet reflects the schemes surplus or liability at the balance sheet date.
Current and past service cost are charged to operating profit with the interest cost, net of expected return on assets in the plans, included within administrative expenses.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued t Pension schemes continued The liability on the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes comprises the total for each scheme, or group of schemes, of the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
u Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market rates for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
The Group does not currently hold any significant cash flow hedges.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement.
v Leasing The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date and is concerned with whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent upon the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
For arrangements entered into prior to 1 January 2005, the date of inception is deemed to be 1 January 2005 in accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRIC 4.
Group as a lessee Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Rental income arising from operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
w Income tax Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised, except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
