Business review Governance Accounts 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14 Intangible assets continued The amount in other intangibles represents the consideration paid to AON to acquire the contract for the administration of the miners personal injury liability claims on behalf of the Department of Trade and Industry.
The useful life of other intangibles has been extended for a further 4 years, as the contract has now been extended.
Customer lists and relationships includes an amount of 11.0m in respect of relationships acquired with the BDML acquisition, which is being amortised over 10 years.
15 Impairment of goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to the groups of cash generating units CGUs listed below.
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored by management for internal reporting purposes.
The significant groups of CGUs identified are Property Consultancy, HR Solutions, Insurance & Specialist Services, Registrar Services, Financial Services and Life & Pensions.
The remaining groups of CGUs are included in the balance of CGUs column.
The recoverable amount of all the CGUs is based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections based on the latest one year budget forecast extrapolated for 4 future years by a growth rate applicable to each unit: an appropriate terminal value based on a perpetuity calculation using nil real growth is then added.
A discount rate of 11.4% is then applied to these projections.
Compound growth rates years 25 % Property Consultancy 10.0 HR Solutions 10.0 Insurance & Specialist Services 10.0 Registrar Services 8.5 Financial Services 8.5 Life & Pensions 10.4 Balance of CGUs weighted average growth rate 9.6 The growth rates used do not exceed published industry estimates.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to groups of cash generating units Insurance Property & Specialist Registrar Financial Life & Balance Consultancy HR Solutions Services Services Services Pensions of CGUs Total m m m m m m m m 2006 Goodwill 46.1 80.7 167.7 93.6 77.3 26.5 97.5 589.4 2005 Goodwill 43.8 80.7 166.6 88.3 62.8 26.2 81.7 550.1 The key assumptions used in the impairment testing were as follows: Profit before interest and taxation Discount rates Rates of growth in CGUs for the years 2 to 5.
Profit before interest and taxation The profit before interest and taxation is based on the margins achieved remaining at the levels currently being achieved.
Discount rate The discount rate reflects managements estimate of the gross cost of capital employed for the groups of CGUs listed above.
This is the benchmark established to assess operating performance and to evaluate future capital investment proposals.
Rates of growth in cash generating units beyond the budget period Growth rate assumptions are based on, as far as possible, published industry research.
Goodwill impairment Management believes that no reasonably possible change in the key assumptions above would cause any of the identified CGUs to become impaired.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
