Business review Governance Accounts 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued x Share based payments The Group operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the company market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over the fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005. y New standards and interpretations not applied During the year, the IASB and the IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: Effective date International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies 1 March 2006 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006 IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment 1 November 2006 IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions 1 March 2007 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
3 Revenue Revenue disclosed in the income statement is analysed as follows: 2006 2005 Notes m m Rendering of services 1,649.9 1,370.1 Construction contracts 20 70.5 47.3 Rental income from operating leases 22 18.1 18.1 Revenue 1,738.5 1,435.5 Finance revenue 8 1.0 0.4 Total revenue 1,739.5 1,435.9 The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
