Notes to the Financial Statements 81 33.
RESTATEMENT OF PARENT COMPANY BALANCES AS AT 31 MARCH 2005 CONTINUED Notes to the reconciliation: 1.
Quoted investments are designated as held at fair value under IFRS and are carried at bid prices whereas previously, under UK GAAP, they were carried at mid prices.
The aggregate difference is a downward revaluation of 1.1 million and this also decreases retained earnings by the same amount.
The deferred tax asset was previously included in current assets.
In accordance with IFRS, it has now been reclassified as a non-current asset.
The deferred tax balance has also been reduced because of a reduction in the SAR provision referred to below.
Under UK company law, companies were required to provide for their proposed dividend in advance of the dividend being declared and approved at the Annual General Meeting.
Under IAS 37, the proposed dividend can no longer be provided for in the year end balance sheet since, at that date, the dividend did not represent a liability of the Company.
At 31 March 2005 accrued dividends of 4.8 million were removed from other liabilities.
Under IFRS 2, Share-based payment, a charge is required for all share-based payments which includes the long-term incentives provided under the Companys Share Appreciation Rights Plan SARs.
The charge in the Consolidated Income Statement is now based on the difference between the fair value of the SARs from one balance sheet date to the next.
Under UK GAAP, the profit and loss charge was based on the difference between the exercise price and the market price of RITCPs shares at the relevant balance sheet date.
SUMMARY RECONCILIATION OF THE CHANGE IN PARENT COMPANY EQUITY AT 1APRIL 2004 1 April 2004 Notes 000 UK GAAP equity as previously reported 960,714 Proposed dividend 1 4,862 Investments held at fair value changed from mid to bid basis 2 701 Adjustment to SAR provision 3 405 Reduction in deferred tax asset arising from the change to the SAR provision 4 297 IFRS increase in equity 5,671 IFRS equity 966,385 Notes to the reconciliation: 1.
Under IAS 37, the dividend cannot be provided for in the year end balance sheet since, at that date, the dividend did not represent a liability.
Accrued dividends of 4.9 million have therefore been removed from other liabilities as at 31 March 2004.
As at 31 March 2004, certain discounts were applied to the valuation of some quoted investments to take account of their illiquidity: these discounts have therefore been removed in accordance with IAS 39.
The aggregate difference was an upward revaluation of 0.7 million and this also increased equity by the same amount.
Under IFRS 2, Share-based payment, a charge is required for all share-based payments which includes the long-term incentives provided under the Company's Share Appreciation Rights Plan SARs.
The SAR provision is now based on the fair value of the SARs using a binomial option valuation model whereas previously the provision was calculated by reference to the difference between the exercise price and the market price of RITCPs shares at the balance sheet date.
The deferred tax attributable to the SARs is calculated by reference to their intrinsic value amortised as appropriate during the term of the three year vesting period.
The reduction in the deferred tax asset at 31 March 2004 amounted to 0.3 million.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
