87 Explanatory Notes RESOLUTION 1 REPORT AND ACCOUNTS The Directors of the Company are required by company law to present the accounts, the Directors report and the auditors report on the accounts to the meeting.
RESOLUTION 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2003 require that the Directors Remuneration Report be put to a vote by shareholders.
The Report is set out on pages 28 to 34 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
RESOLUTION 3 DIVIDEND A final dividend can only be paid after the shareholders at a General Meeting have approved it.
A final dividend of 3.1 pence per ordinary share is proposed.
RESOLUTIONS 4 TO 11 RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS All Directors have to stand for re-election at least once every 3 years, but are eligible for re-election.
Directors also adhere to the Boards policy that any Director who has served as such for nine or more years and who is not retiring by rotation, shall nonetheless stand for re-election at each annual general meeting.
David Haysey and Christopher Hohn were both appointed as Directors since the last Annual General Meeting and, under the Articles of Association, are required to retire and seek re-election by the shareholders.
Special notice is given with respect to the retirement and re-election of Lord Rothschild, who has attained the age of 70.
The re-election of each of the Directors standing is recommended by the Board, which confirms, following their annual performance review, that each such Directors performance continues to be satisfactory.
RESOLUTION 12 REAPPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF THE AUDITORS Company law requires all companies, at each general meeting at which accounts are laid, to appoint auditors who will remain in office until the next general meeting at which accounts are laid.
The Board, having accepted the recommendation of the Audit Committee, propose that  LLP be reappointed as the Companys auditors.
RESOLUTION 13 RENEWAL OF DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES This resolution which will be proposed as a special resolution and requires the approval of three quarters of the votes cast at the meeting will, if approved, allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares in RIT Capital Partners plc.
This authority will last until the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 30 September 2007.
The maximum amount that can be allotted under this authority is 52,059,389.
RESOLUTION 14 DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS This special resolution will renew the Directors authority to allot shares for cash, free from the pre-emption restrictions set out in the Companies Act 1985.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2006, or on 30 September 2006 if earlier.
The Directors intend to observe the institutional guidelines in respect of allotment of shares for cash.
These presently require that the annual authority should not exceed 5% of the issued share capital and that no more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital should be allotted for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 88 Explanatory Notes RESOLUTION 15 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and will allow RIT Capital Partners plc to make market purchases of up to 23,411,107 of its own ordinary shares or such a number of ordinary shares as represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the date of the meeting, whichever is less at prices not less than 1 per share and not more than five per cent above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding such a purchase.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 permit companies to hold any of their own shares which they have purchased as Treasury Shares as an alternative to cancelling them.
Accordingly, if the Company were to purchase any of its own shares under the authority conferred by this resolution, the Directors may consider holding them as Treasury Shares or the Directors may cancel the shares.
Such a decision will be made by the Directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the Companys and shareholders best interests.
The Directors currently have no intention of exercising the authority conferred in this resolution and will only purchase shares after taking account of the overall financial position of the Company and whether the effect will be to increase net asset value per share, and if it is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
