Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 53 Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the Consolidation consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern Consolidated financial statements the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from its The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting by the European Union EU.
The consolidated financial statements rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are revaluation of available for sale financial assets, investment property, fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group occupied property and financial assets and financial liabilities Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
held for trading which include all derivative contracts.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the Except where otherwise stated, all figures included in the consolidated acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
financial statements are presented in millions of British pounds sterling m, rounded to the nearest million.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed Comparative information at the date of exchange, including costs directly attributable to the The comparative information has been restated as follows: acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent The Group has changed its accounting treatment and recognised the liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes at fair value at the date of their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any conversion.
Further information can be found in note 19, minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised The US operation is classified as a disposal group at the end of 2006 as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net and accordingly the results of the disposal group are presented as assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in discontinued operations in the income statement.
The comparative the income statement.
information in the 2005 results is represented as discontinued information.
Further information can be found in note 35, Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also The 2005 auditors remuneration, disclosed in note 4, is presented eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment on a comparable basis following changes in the legislation regarding of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed auditors remuneration disclosures.
where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by Selection of accounting policies the Group.
The Group exercises judgement in selecting each Group accounting Associates policy.
The accounting policies of the Group are selected by the directors Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence to present financial statements that they consider provides the most but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between relevant information.
For certain accounting policies there are different 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounting treatments that could be adopted, each of which would be accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially in compliance with IFRS and would have a significant influence upon recognised at cost.
the basis on which the financial statements are presented.
The bases of selection of the accounting policies for the accounting for financial The Groups shares of its associates post acquisition profits or losses assets and for the recognition of actuarial gains and losses related to are recognised in the income statement, and its share of post acquisition pension obligations are set out below: movements in reserves are recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post acquisition movements are adjusted in the carrying amount of The Group accounting policy is to designate all financial assets that the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals meet the necessary conditions as available for sale financial assets.
or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured This designation enables the Group to recognise the investment receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has return earned on such assets in a consistent manner with the internal incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
measures applied to measure the performance of the individual operations, Adjustments are made, where necessary, to conform the accounting The Group accounting policy is to recognise actuarial gains and policies of associates to ensure consistency with the policies adopted losses arising from the recognition and funding of the Groups pension by the Group.
obligations in the period in which they arise.
This policy has been adopted as it provides the most relevant basis of recognition of such Translation of foreign currencies gains and losses.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Royal & SunAlliance 54 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Significant accounting policies continued The results and financial position of those Group entities whose functional Expenditure that increases the future economic benefits arising from currency is not British pounds sterling are translated into British pounds computer software in excess of its standard of performance assessed sterling as follows: immediately before the expenditure was made, is recognised as an intangible asset and amortised using the straight line method to allocate Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated the cost over their estimated useful lives which is normally estimated to at the closing exchange rate at the date of that balance sheet, be between three and five years.
Income and expenses for each income statement are translated Other intangible assets comprise renewal rights, customer lists, brands at average exchange rates during each period, and other acquired identifiable non monetary assets without physical All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a component form.
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated of equity.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives which is normally On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation estimated to be between three and five years.
of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are Property and equipment taken to equity.
When a foreign entity is sold, the cumulative exchange Property and equipment comprise Group occupied land and buildings, differences relating to that foreign entity are recognised in the income fixtures, fittings and equipment including computer hardware and motor statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
These assets are depreciated over their estimated useful life after taking into account residual values.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is treated as an asset of the foreign entity and the carrying value is translated at Group occupied property is stated at fair value, less subsequent the closing exchange rate.
All other assets are stated at depreciated cost.
Fair value movements are recorded in equity.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the Fair value is based on current prices in an active market for similar transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the property in the same location and condition and subject to similar settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end contractual terms of ownership.
Valuations are performed by external exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in professionally qualified valuation surveyors on at least an annual foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
basis, with reference to current market conditions.
Translation differences on non monetary items, such as equities All other classes are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
classified as available for sale financial assets, are included in the Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition fair value reserve in equity.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated to the item will flow Goodwill and other intangible assets to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of a business acquisition and the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets and Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on all other items is calculated liabilities acquired, is initially capitalised in the balance sheet at cost and on the straight line method to write down the cost of such assets to is subsequently recognised at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
their residual value over their estimated useful lives as follows: The cost of the acquisition is the amount of cash paid and the fair Group occupied buildings normally 30 years value of other purchase consideration given together with associated Fixtures and fittings 10 years expenses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose Motor vehicles 4 years of impairment testing.
Each of those cash generating units represents Equipment 3-5 years the Groups investment in each country of operation.
Goodwill is subject to an impairment review at least annually.
An impairment review is The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted also carried out whenever there is an indication that goodwill or other if appropriate, at the balance sheet date.
Where the carrying amount is more An impairment review is carried out whenever there is an indication than the recoverable amount, an impairment is recognised.
that the assets are impaired.
An assets carrying amount is written When calculating the goodwill arising on an acquisition, claims provisions down to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is are discounted to present value.
Immediately following the acquisition, greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
the claims provisions are valued at full nominal value.
This increase in Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of liabilities is matched by the recognition of an intangible asset arising Group occupied property are credited to revaluation surplus in equity.
from acquired claims provisions, representing the present value of future Decreases that offset the previous increases of the same asset are investment income implicit in the claims discount.
The intangible asset is charged against revaluation surplus directly in equity, other decreases amortised over the expected run off period and is tested in the context are charged to the income statement.
Each year, the difference between of the liability adequacy test of insurance liabilities where the balances depreciation based on the fair value of the asset charged to the income of intangible assets associated with insurance contracts is deducted statement and depreciation based on the assets original cost is transferred from the carrying amount of the insurance liabilities.
from revaluation surplus to retained earnings.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 55 Investment property Derivative financial instruments Investment property, comprising freehold and leasehold land and Derivatives are recognised in the balance sheet on a trade date basis and buildings, is held for long term rental yields and is not occupied by are carried at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when fair value the Group.
is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative Investment property is recorded at fair value, measured by independent is designated as a hedging instrument and the nature of the item being professionally qualified valuers, who hold a recognised and relevant hedged.
Where a derivative is not designated as a hedging instrument, professional qualification and have recent experience in the location and changes in its fair value are recognised in the income statement.
category of the investment property being valued, on an annual basis or more frequently and by internal valuers for interim periods, with reference Hedging to current market conditions.
Related unrealised gains and unrealised Transactions are classified as hedging transactions when the following losses or changes thereof are recognised in investment income.
conditions for hedge accounting are met: Financial assets There is a formal designation and documentation of the hedging A financial asset is initially recognised, on the date the Group commits relationship and the Groups risk management objective and strategy to purchase the asset, at fair value plus, in the case of all financial assets for undertaking the hedge, not classified as at fair value through the income statement, transaction The hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition.
A financial asset is changes in fair value or cashflows attributable to the hedged risk, derecognised when the rights to receive cashflows from the investment consistently with the originally documented risk management have expired or have been transferred and the Group has also transferred strategy for that particular hedging relationship, substantially the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset.
The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured, On initial recognition, the financial assets may be categorised into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income For cashflow hedges, a forecast transaction that is the subject of statement, loans and receivables, held to maturity financial assets the hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure and available for sale financial assets.
The classification depends on to variations in cashflows that could ultimately affect profit or loss, the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management The hedge is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined to have determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
The Group designates, where possible, its financial assets as available Where loan capital is designated as the hedging instrument against for sale financial assets on initial recognition of a financial asset.
On the net investment in foreign entities, the effective portion of the hedge subsequent measurement, investments are measured at fair value is recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion with changes in fair value recognised in equity.
Where the cumulative is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses changes recognised in equity represent an unrealised loss the individual accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the asset or group of assets is reviewed to test whether an indication of underlying hedged item is derecognised.
Estimation of the fair value of financial assets and liabilities For securities whose fair values are readily determined and where there The methods and assumptions used by the Group in estimating the fair is objective evidence that such an asset is impaired, including a significant value of financial assets and liabilities are: or prolonged decline in the fair value below cost, the unrealised loss charged to equity is reclassified to the income statement.
For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon quoted market prices.
Where market prices are not readily available, If the fair value of a previously impaired debt security increases and fair values are estimated using either values obtained from quoted the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the market prices of comparable securities or estimated by discounting impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed and expected future cashflows using a current market rate applicable to the reversal recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses the yield, credit quality and maturity of the investment, on equity investments are not reversed.
For equity securities fair values are based upon quoted market prices, Investment income is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends on equity investments are recognised on the date at which the investment If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group establishes is priced ex dividend.
Interest income is recognised using the effective fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of interest method.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that investments are recognised directly in equity, except for impairment are substantially the same, discounted cashflow analysis and option losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary items pricing models, which are recognised in the income statement.
On derecognition For mortgage loans on real estate and collateral loans, fair values of an investment, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised are estimated using discounted cashflow calculations based upon in equity is recognised in the income statement.
prevailing market rates, Royal & SunAlliance 56 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Significant accounting policies continued For cash, short term investments, commercial paper, other assets, The provisions for claims outstanding relating to long term permanent liabilities and accruals, carrying amounts approximate to fair values, disability claims in the US, Canada and Scandinavia are determined using recognised actuarial methods.
For notes, bonds, loans payable and loan capital, fair values are determined by reference to quoted market prices or estimated using Differences between the estimated cost and subsequent settlement discounted cashflow calculations based upon prevailing market rates.
of claims are recognised in the income statement in the year in which Loan capital is carried at amortised cost and when this is different from they are settled or in which the provisions for claims outstanding are fair value this is shown in the relevant note.
For borrowings that carry re-estimated.
a variable rate of interest other than loan capital, carrying values At each balance sheet date an assessment is made of whether the approximate to fair values, provisions for unearned premiums are adequate.
A separate provision For derivatives, fair values are generally based upon quoted market prices.
is made, based on information available at the balance sheet date, for any estimated future underwriting losses relating to unexpired risks.
The Insurance contracts provision is calculated after taking into account future investment income Product classification that is expected to be earned from the assets backing the provisions for Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance unearned premiums net of deferred acquisition costs.
The unexpired risk at the inception of the contract.
Insurance risk is transferred when risk provision is assessed in aggregate for business classes which, in the the Group agrees to compensate a policyholder if a specified uncertain opinion of the directors, are managed together.
future event other than a change in a financial variable adversely affects the policyholder.
Any contracts not meeting the definition of an Reinsurance ceded insurance contract under IFRS are classified as investment contracts or Premiums payable in respect of reinsurance ceded, are recognised in derivative contracts, as appropriate.
the period in which the reinsurance contract is entered into and include estimates where the amounts are not determined at the balance sheet Recognition of income date.
Premiums are expensed over the period of the reinsurance contract, Premiums written are accounted for in the period in which the contract is calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
entered into and include estimates where the amounts are not determined at the balance sheet date.
Premiums written exclude taxes and duties A reinsurance asset reinsurers share of insurance liabilities is recognised levied on premiums and directly related expenses, eg commissions.
to reflect the amount estimated to be recoverable under the reinsurance Premiums are earned as revenue over the period of the contract and contracts in respect of the outstanding claims reported under insurance are calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
The amount recoverable from reinsurers is initially valued on the same basis as the underlying claims provision.
The amount Acquisition costs recoverable is reduced when there is an event arising after the initial Acquisition costs comprise the direct and indirect costs of obtaining recognition that provides objective evidence that the Group may not and processing new insurance business.
These costs are recognised receive all amounts due under the contract and the event has a reliably as a deferred acquisition cost asset and amortised on the same basis measurable impact on the expected amount that will be recovered from as the related premiums are earned.
Insurance liabilities The reinsurers shares of each unexpired risk provision is recognised on The provision for unearned premium represents the portion of the the same basis.
premiums written relating to periods of insurance coverage subsequent to the balance sheet date.
Annuities purchased by the Group to make payments under structured settlement arrangements are accounted for as reinsurance ceded if the The provisions for claims outstanding, whether reported or not, Group remains liable for the settlement in the event of default by the comprises the estimated cost of claims incurred but not settled at annuity provider.
Any gain or loss arising on the purchase of an annuity the balance sheet date.
It includes related expenses and a deduction is recognised in the income statement at the date of purchase.
for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
The provision is determined using the best information available of claims settlement Cash and cash equivalents patterns, forecast inflation and settlement of claims.
Cash and cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are subject to insignificant changes in value and are readily convertible The provisions for claims outstanding, and related reinsurance recoveries, into known amounts of cash.
Cash equivalents comprise financial assets are discounted where there is a particularly long period from incident with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
to claims settlement and where there exists a suitable claims payment pattern from which to calculate the discount.
In defining those claims Treasury shares with a long period from incident to claims settlement, those categories of Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised claims where the average period of settlement is six years or more from on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury shares.
Any the balance sheet date, has been used as a guide.
The discount rate used consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
is based upon an investment return expected to be earned by assets, Loan capital which are appropriate in magnitude and nature to cover the provisions Loan capital comprises subordinated bonds which are stated at the for claims outstanding being discounted, during the period necessary consideration received less transaction costs.
Subsequently, it is for the payment of such claims.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 57 An exchange with an existing lender of loan capital with substantially are provided.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the different terms is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original contributions have been paid.
financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
The The amounts charged or credited where relevant in the income terms are substantially different if the discounted present value of the statement relating to post retirement benefits in respect of defined cashflows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees benefit schemes are as follows: received and discounted using the original effective interest rate, is at least 10% different from the discounted present value of the remaining The current service cost, cashflows of the original financial liability.
An exchange where the terms The past service costs for additional benefits granted in the current are not substantially different is accounted for as an exchange.
or earlier periods, If an exchange of loan capital or modification of terms is accounted The interest cost for the period, for as an extinguishment, any costs or fees incurred are recognised as part of the gain or loss on the extinguishment.
If it is accounted for as The impact of any curtailments or settlements during the period, an exchange, any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying amount of The expected return on scheme assets where relevant.
the liability and are amortised over the remaining term of the modified liability and no adjustment is made to the carrying value of the liability The current service cost in respect of defined benefit schemes comprises to reflect its fair value at the date of exchange.
the present value of the additional benefits attributable to employees services provided during the period.
Taxation Taxation in the income statement is based on profits and income for The present value of defined benefit obligations and the present values the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, of additional benefits accruing during the period are calculated using the together with adjustments to provisions for prior years.
UK tax in Projected Unit Credit Method.
respect of overseas subsidiaries and principal associated undertakings Past service costs arise where additional benefits are granted.
The cost is recognised as an expense in the year in which the profits arise, except of providing additional benefits is recognised on a straight line basis where the remittance of earnings can be controlled and it is probable that over the remaining period of service until such benefits vest.
The cost remittance will not take place in the foreseeable future, in which case UK of providing additional benefits that vest on their introduction are tax is based on dividends received.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary The calculation of the present value of accrued benefits includes an differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and the actuarial assumption of future interest rates, which is used to discount carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, if the deferred the expected ultimate cost of providing the benefits.
The discount rate tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction is determined at each balance sheet date by reference to current market other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction yields on high quality corporate bonds identified to match the currency affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted and estimated term of the obligations.
The interest cost for the period is for.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been calculated by multiplying the discount rate determined at the start of the enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are period by the defined benefit obligations during the period.
expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
The change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the changes in the fair value of scheme assets resulting from any curtailments Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that and settlements of scheme liabilities during the period are recognised in future taxable profits will be available against which these temporary the income statement.
Additionally, any previously unrecognised past differences can be utilised.
service costs related to these liabilities are recognised in the gains or Employee benefits losses on settlement and curtailment.
Pension obligations The expected return on scheme assets is calculated using market Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes expectations, at the beginning of the period, of the investment returns are generally funded through payments to trustee administered on assets over the entire life of the related obligations.
funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
A defined Actuarial gains and losses arise from changes to actuarial assumptions contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the Group pays when revaluing future benefits and from actual experience in respect of fixed contributions into a separate entity.
A defined benefit scheme is scheme liabilities and investment performance of scheme assets being a pension scheme that defines an amount of pension benefit that an different from previous assumptions.
Actuarial gains and losses are employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more recognised as a component of equity.
factors such as age, years of service and salary.
The value recognised in the balance sheet for each individual post Post retirement benefits including pension schemes and post retirement scheme is calculated as follows: retirement health schemes The present value of defined benefit obligation of the scheme at Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged in the balance sheet date, the period in which the employment services qualifying for the benefit Royal & SunAlliance 58 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Significant accounting policies continued Minus any past service cost not yet recognised, secondary segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that Minus the fair value at the balance sheet date of the scheme assets are different from those of other business segments.
out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Non current assets and operations held for sale and Termination benefits discontinued operations Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated Non current assets and operations are classified as held for sale if before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group transaction, that is highly probable to complete within one year from the recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed date of classification, rather than through continuing use.
Such assets to either: terminating the employment of current employees according are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing sell and are classified separately from other assets in the balance sheet.
termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary Assets and liabilities are not netted.
In the period where an operation is redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance presented for the first time as discontinued, the balance sheet for the sheet date are discounted to present value.
comparative prior period presented is not restated.
Share based payment Discontinued operations are presented on the face of the income The value of the employee share options and other equity settled statement as a single amount comprising the total of the net profit or share based payments is calculated at fair value at the grant date using loss of discontinued operations and the after tax gain or loss recognised appropriate and recognised option pricing models.
The value of liabilities on the sale or the measurement to fair value less costs to sell of the net in respect of cash settled share based payment transactions are based assets constituting the discontinued operations.
In the period where upon the fair value of the awards at the balance sheet date.
an operation is presented for the first time as discontinued, the income Vesting conditions, other than those based upon market conditions, are statement for the comparative prior period presented is restated to not taken into account when estimating the fair value of such awards but present that operation as discontinued.
are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments Unless otherwise stated, in the period where an operation is presented included in the ultimate measurement of the transaction amount.
The for the first time as discontinued, the notes to the financial statements value of the awards are recognised as an expense on a systematic basis contain amounts attributable to continuing operations only.
The over the period during which the employment services are provided.
comparatives for the notes to the income statement are restated.
The proceeds received net of any transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Current and non current distinction Assets are classified as current when expected to be realised within Provisions the Groups normal operating cycle of one year.
Liabilities are classified Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or as current when expected to be settled within the Groups normal constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than operating cycle of one year.
All other assets and liabilities are classified not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation as non current.
and the amount can be reliably estimated.
The Groups consolidated balance sheet is not presented using a Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that current non current classification.
However, the following balances an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering are generally classified as current: cash and cash equivalents: deferred the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the acquisition costs: and insurance and reinsurance debtors.
likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
The following balances are generally classified as non current: goodwill and other intangible assets: property and equipment: investment Dividends to equity holders property: investment in associates: financial assets: deferred tax assets: The final dividend is recognised as a liability when approved at the AGM.
loan capital: and deferred tax liabilities.
The interim dividend is recognised as a liability when announced.
The remaining balances are of a mixed nature.
The current and non Leases current portions of such balances are set out in the respective notes.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Payments made under operating leases are Recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet charged on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
adopted by the Group Below are listed the developments that are relevant in the future to Segment reporting the Groups future financial reporting.
The Group does not anticipate A geographical segment primary segment is engaged in providing that any of these developments will have a material impact on the products or services within a particular economic environment that are Groups financial condition, results of its operations or disclosure in subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments its financial statements.
operating in other economic environments.
A business segment Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 59 a Published standards and amendments to published standards provided by the segments, differences between the measurements that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by used in reporting segment information and those used in the entitys the Group financial statements, and changes in the measurement of segment On 18 August 2005, the International Accounting Standards amounts from period to period.
Board IASB issued IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and IFRS 8 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January a complementary Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial 2009, with earlier application encouraged.
IFRS 8 has not yet been Statements Capital Disclosures.
IFRS 7 requires disclosures about the adopted by the EU.
significance of financial instruments for an entitys financial position and performance.
These disclosures incorporate many of the requirements b Interpretations to published standards that are not yet previously in IAS 32.
IFRS 7 also requires information about the extent effective and have not been early adopted by the Group to which the Group is exposed to risks arising from financial instruments, The following new interpretations to existing standards have been and a description of managements objectives, policies and processes published that are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods for managing those risks.
The Amendment to IAS 1 introduces beginning on or after 1 May 2006 or later periods, but that the Group requirements for disclosures about an entitys capital.
IFRS 7 and the has not early adopted: Amendment to IAS 1 have been adopted by the EU and are effective IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 effective from annual periods beginning for periods beginning 1 January 2007, on or after 1 May 2006.
IFRIC 8 requires consideration of transactions On 15 December 2005, the IASB issued a limited Amendment to involving the issuance of equity instruments where the identifiable IAS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
The consideration received is less than the fair value of the equity Amendment clarifies the requirements of IAS 21 regarding an entitys instruments issued to establish whether or not they fall within the investment in foreign operations.
The limited Amendment to IAS 21 scope of IFRS 2.
IFRIC 8 has been adopted by the EU.
The Group will has been adopted by the EU.
The Group will adopt limited Amendment apply IFRIC 8 from 1 January 2007, to IAS 21 from 1 January 2007, IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment effective for On 30 November 2006, IASB issued IFRS 8, Operating Segments, annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
IFRIC 10 which replaces IAS 14, Segment Reporting.
In doing so, IFRS 8 requires: prohibits the impairment losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill and investments in equity instruments and in financial assets Identification of operating segments based on internal reports carried at cost to be reversed at a subsequent balance sheet date.
that are regularly reviewed by the entitys chief operating decision IFRIC 10 has been adopted by the EU.
The Group will apply IFRIC 10 maker in order to allocate resources to the segment and assess from 1 January 2007. its performance.
This is because the requirements of IFRS 8 are based on the information about the components of the entity that c Interpretations to published standards that are not yet effective management uses to make decisions about operating matters, and not relevant for the Groups operations IFRIC 7, Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, Financial Inclusion of a component of an entity that sells primarily or exclusively Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies effective from 1 March to other operating segments of the entity in the definition of an 2006.
IFRIC 7 provides guidance on how to apply requirements of operating segment if the entity is managed that way, IAS 29 in a reporting period in which an entity identifies the existence The amount of each operating segment item reported to be the of hyperinflation in the economy of its functional currency, when the measure reported to the chief operating decision maker for the economy was not hyperinflationary in the prior period.
As none of the purposes of allocating resources to the segment and assessing Group entities has a currency of a hyperinflationary economy as its its performance, functional currency, IFRIC 7 is not relevant to the Groups operations.
IFRIC 7 has been adopted by the EU, Reconciliations of total reportable segment revenues, total profit or loss, total assets, and other amounts disclosed for reportable IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives effective from annual segments to corresponding amounts in the entitys financial statements, periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006.
IFRIC 9 requires an entity to assess whether an embedded derivative is required to be separated An explanation of how segment profit or loss and segment assets from the host contract and accounted for as a derivative when the are measured for each reportable segment, entity first becomes a party to the contract.
Subsequent reassessment An entity to report information about the revenues derived from is prohibited unless there is a change in the terms of the contract that its products or services or groups of similar products and services, significantly modifies the cashflows that otherwise would be required about the countries in which it earns revenues and holds assets, and under the contract, in which case reassessment is required.
IFRIC 9 is about major customers, regardless of whether that information is not relevant to the Groups operations because none of the terms of used by management in making operating decisions, the Groups contracts has been changed.
IFRIC 9 has been adopted by the EU.
An entity to give descriptive information about the way that the operating segments were determined, the products and services
