Royal & SunAlliance 11 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Frequently asked questions A range of shareholder information is available on line at Q Why do I receive multiple sets of information whenever www.
co. uk, including practical help on transferring shares you send anything to me?
Shareholders can also register for secure access A If you have acquired shares on more than one occasion, your to their portfolio, enabling them to check holdings and register their holdings may have been recorded on the register of shareholders email address to receive shareholder information and the Annual Report with slightly different details.
As a result, two or more accounts & Accounts electronically.
At present, the portfolio service is free.
may have been set up for you.
Sometimes multiple accounts are necessary, eg if you hold shares in your own name and also in joint Q I have recently moved house who should I tell?
However, sometimes multiple accounts can A Please notify Lloyds TSB Registrars in writing at the address given be amalgamated.
Please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars to discuss on page 115.
Remember to state clearly your old address.
If you whether your accounts can be amalgamated.
hold shares in joint names, the letter must be signed by the first named person on the share certificate.
If you have previously Q How can I get my dividends paid directly into my bank registered for the Shareview portfolio service, you can log onto or building society account?
co. uk and change your address electronically.
A You will need to supply your bank or building society account details to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
You can obtain a dividend payment Q What should I do if I change my name?
mandate form from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
A copy of the form is also A To ensure that your shareholding is registered in your new name, attached when dividend cheques are mailed out.
please write to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
You will need to enclose evidence of the change, for example, a copy of your marriage Q Can I receive shares in lieu of cash dividends?
certificate or change of name deed please do not send originals, A The Company offers a scrip dividend scheme, which allows ordinary together with your share certificate s and any uncashed dividend shareholders to receive new ordinary shares of 27.5p each instead cheques.
New documents will then be issued in the right name.
The scrip dividend scheme applies to both interim and final dividends, and enables shareholders to increase Q My share certificate has been lost stolen.
How do I get their holdings in the Company without incurring dealing costs a replacement?
Please telephone Lloyds TSB Registrars on A You should inform Lloyds TSB Registrars immediately.
They will 44 0 870 600 3988 for further information.
send you a form of indemnity to complete and request payment of an administration fee.
The form of indemnity is required to protect the Q I would like to transfer shares to somebody I know.
Company from the potential misuse of the missing share certificate, How do I arrange this?
so must be returned before a new share certificate can be issued.
A Such transactions need not involve a stockbroker: you can use a stock Please remember that your share certificate is a valuable document transfer form.
The form can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars or which should be kept in a safe place.
printed from their website www.
Q I have lost my dividend tax voucher how can I get Q How do I register the death of a shareholder?
A The first step is to write to Lloyds TSB Registrars, to let them know A To get a replacement, you will need to contact Lloyds TSB Registrars.
They will then place a temporary marker A small fee will be payable for this service.
on the register to ensure that further dividend payments are not issued in the late shareholders name.
They will also send you the Q I have found an out of date dividend cheque forms that you will need to complete.
A Please send the out of date cheque to Lloyds TSB Registrars, with a request that they issue a replacement cheque.
There will be a small administration charge for issuing replacement dividend cheques for larger payments.
Q I would like to receive future communications electronically how can I arrange this?
co. uk and create your own portfolio.
You will need your shareholder account number on your share certificate s or dividend tax voucher to access this service.
Important disclaimer impact of competition, inflation, deflation, the timing impact and other uncertainties of This document may contain forward-looking statements as defined in the future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries, as well as the impact of US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to certain of the tax and other legislation and other regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company Companys plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial and its affiliates operate.
As a result, the Companys actual future financial condition, condition, performance and results.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements performance and results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances set forth in the Companys forward-looking statements.
The Company undertakes no which are beyond the Companys control, including amongst other things, UK domestic obligation to update any forward-looking statements, save in respect of any requirement and global economic business conditions, market-related risks such as fluctuations in under applicable law or regulation.
interest rates and exchange rates, the policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the Designed and produced by CGI London 44 0 20 7566 4600.
Directors photography by Homer Sykes: Getty Images pages 11 and 16: Sam Robinson page 12: R&SA pages 10, 14 and 24.
Printed by royle corporate print on Revive Special Silk which has minimum 30% post consumer waste, maximum 60% virgin fibre and 10% Mill broke, and Revive uncoated which is 100% post consumer waste.
The printer, papers and mills are accredited ISO 14001.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 www.
com Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2006 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 We operate in 27 countries and provide insurance products and services in over 130 countries.
Our portfolio of businesses is diverse and provides exposure to markets at different stages of development and at different points in the insurance cycle.
We are committed to delivering sustainable returns, targeted profitable growth and continuous operational excellence.
2006 has been another strong year.
The combined operating ratio improved by 0.8 points to 93.3% and the underlying return on equity was 20.7%.
1 Financial highlights 28 Directors report 46 Summary consolidated statement 2 R&SA at a glance 30 Corporate governance of recognised income and expenses 4 Chairmans statement 34 Remuneration report 46 Summary consolidated 6 Group CEOs business review 40 Summary directors emoluments balance sheet 10 Market leading capabilities and interests 47 Summary consolidated 11 Profitable growth 44 Independent auditors statement cashflow statement 12 UK business review to the members of Royal & Sun 48 Estimation techniques, uncertainties 14 International business review Alliance Insurance Group plc and contingencies 16 Emerging Markets business review 45 Summary consolidated 51 Shareholder information 18 Financial review income statement 52 Financial calendar 22 Risk framework ibc Frequently asked questions 24 Corporate responsibility 26 Board of Directors Visit www.
This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements contains forward looking statements as defined in the US Private Securities Reform Act.
For a discussion of factors that could affect future results, reference should be made to the Important disclaimer on the inside back cover.
The following sections, pages 1 to 25 constitute the Business Review of Royal & SunAlliance and are incorporated by reference into the directors report set out on pages 28 to 29.
The directors report has been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon applicable English Company Law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with that Report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 1 Financial highlights Net written premiums Combined operating ratio 5,484m 93.3% 5,484 96.1 5,300 94.1 4,972 93.3 2004 2005 2006 2004 2005 2006 Operating result Dividend 780m 5.87p 780 5.87 743 4.74 4.61 623 2004 2005 2006 2004 2005 2006 2006 2005 Results Operating result 780m 743m Profit before disposals and pension scheme change 650m 588m Profit after tax from continuing operations 479m 635m Loss profit after tax 20m 605m Balance sheet at 31 December Total capital 4,084m 4,229m Shareholders funds 2,561m 2,686m Net asset value per share 82p 88p Dividend Total dividend for the year per ordinary share 5.87p 4.74p Underlying return on equity 20.7% 21.6% C Co om mb bi in ne ed d o op pe er ra at ti in ng g r ra at ti io o C CO OR R :: The ratio of claim costs and expenses including commission to premiums.
Royal & SunAlliance 2 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 R&SA at a glance UK A strong portfolio of Net written premiums 2,61 8m businesses, balanced Commercial 1,770m between mature markets and emerging markets with Personal 848m higher growth potential We are the largest Commercial insurer in the UK, with 13% market Key business areas share, writing property, motor, liability and marine insurance.
Property is the largest segment, accounting for over 35% of Commercial net written premiums.
The business has a strong reputation for technical excellence, it insures 70% of FTSE 100 retailers and is one of the leading carriers of Professional & Financial and Marine risks outside of Lloyds of London.
Our Personal business is ranked third largest in the UK with around four million covers in place.
UK Personal primarily provides household, motor and travel insurance through MORE TH N our direct business.
In Affinity, we provide the retail customers of our corporate partners with a range of insurance products.
We are aiming to become number one in the broker market for reputation, Key strategies capabilities and profitability.
In Commercial we are leveraging our reputation for technical excellence in our target markets to deliver profitable growth and manage retention.
In Personal, we are aiming to strengthen our number three retail position by enhancing our customer focus.
By 2010, we plan to grow our Affinity business by more than 50% from 2005 levels.
We will grow organically and will consider acquisitions that strengthen our portfolio.
We are targeting 70m of annualised cost savings by mid 2008 and an expense ratio of below 15%.
In 2006, the UK delivered a COR of 92.3%, almost one point better than 2006 highlights last year and a 4% increase in the underwriting result.
Commercial delivered a COR of 92.6% and the Personal COR improved 4 points to 91.6%.
In Commercial, our most competitive market, retention remains strong at 84% and we increased new business by 31% to 298m.
In November, we acquired Martello Underwriting Limited, a specialist provider of professional indemnity insurance which is expected to generate premiums of around 40m in 2007.
In Personal, MORE TH N delivered a 28% increase in new business and is making good progress in achieving a sub 20% expense ratio by the end of 2007.
In Intermediated, we signed 11 distribution agreements, including Paymentshield, the largest independent provider of mortgage related products in the UK, which is expected to contribute over 200m in premiums in 2008.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 3 International Emerging Markets Net written premiums 2,334m Net written premiums 531m Scandinavia 1,280m Canada 662m Other Europe Latin America 392m 314m Baltics 114m Asia & Middle East 103m International comprises our businesses in the mature insurance markets Emerging Markets is our fastest growing business, covering 20 markets of Scandinavia Sweden, Denmark and Norway, Canada, Ireland and Italy.
which offer high growth potential.
Scandinavia accounts for 55% of International premiums.
In Denmark Latin America is the largest operation accounting for 59% of Emerging and Sweden, our businesses are ranked third largest, operating under Markets net written premiums.
Our largest operations are based in Chile, the Codan brand in Denmark and Trygg-Hansa in Sweden.
where we are the market leader, Brazil and Mexico.
Canada comprises our direct business, Johnson Corporation, as well Our businesses in Latvia and Lithuania are ranked number one in each of as Personal Intermediated and Commercial.
their markets and we are launching a new operation in Estonia in 2007.
In Ireland, we are the leading provider of household insurance.
We are located in 10 countries across Asia and the Middle East, including India and China.
The Asia and the Middle East portfolio accounts for 19% Our Italian business distributes the majority of its products through of Emerging Markets net written premiums and consistently delivers non tied agents, with a network focused on Northern Italy.
In International, our objective is to drive the business harder.
We are We are targeting double digit growth per annum in these exciting targeting sustainable profitable growth ahead of the market and building markets by expanding distribution, disciplined underwriting and market share in our target segments.
We will complement organic growth with acquisitions that accelerate the delivery of our strategic objectives.
We are also successfully driving growth by exploiting alternative distribution channels and taking a segmented approach to our target We are targeting 15% growth per annum in Latin America, Asia and the customer base to develop new customer propositions.
We will consider Middle East and the Baltics, in order to double premiums by 2010 from supplementing organic growth with acquisitions in existing territories.
Over the same period, we intend increasing gross written premiums in India to 200m.
All targets are on a local currency basis.
Our cost reduction and operational improvement programmes are further enhancing profitability across the region.
In 2006, International delivered above market premium growth and Emerging Markets delivered an excellent 21% increase in net written a COR of 93.1%.
premiums in 2006 and a combined operating ratio of 97.3%.
In Scandinavia, we continued to develop our motor proposition, signing Premium growth was strong across the region, with a 26% increase additional agreements with car dealers in Denmark and Sweden.
We in Latin America, 38% in India and 32% in the Baltics.
In Latin America, acquired White Label Holding and Duborgh Skadeforsikring in Norway.
the increase reflects double digit organic growth as well as the integration of our 2005 acquisition, Cruz del Sur.
Asia and the Middle East also Canada increased net written premiums by 15%, reflecting strong delivered double digit premium growth, after adjusting for the disposal organic growth in Johnson and the successful integration of the Morgex of the Japanese business in 2005. and Shillington acquisitions.
Emerging Markets increased the underwriting result by 83% to 11m, Ireland produced another good result in a competitive market.
The driven primarily by Asia and the Middle East which delivered another acquisition of EGI Holdings Limited extends our expertise and product excellent result improving its COR by 6.4 points to 83.1%.
offerings in selected liability and motor lines.
Italy outperformed the market in terms of top line growth, and delivered a strong increase in underwriting profits.
Royal & SunAlliance 4 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Chairmans statement A year of significant achievement, which positions us to accelerate further our plans to improve and grow profitably our portfolio of businesses I am pleased to report for the fourth successive year further Although a more significant impact of these changes is expected significant achievements in your Companys operational in 2007, there have been continuing business development performance and progress in its realisation of its stated successes in the year including: strategic goals.
In short we have completed all the goals we Further expansion of our distribution in the UK and acquisition set for our restructuring plan and can now accelerate further of new capability set to deliver profitable growth, our plans to both improve and grow profitably our portfolio of businesses.
Although much has been achieved over the Successful acquisitions in Norway, Canada and Ireland, last four years there is still work to do as we progress our Above market growth in Scandinavia with new distribution plans to transform all aspects of the Companys activities initiatives, and enhance our leadership position in the markets we choose to operate in.
Double digit growth in Canada, the Baltics and Latin America.
The detailed achievements of 2006 are covered in the Chief The key strategic priority set for 2006 was, however, achieving Executives and Chief Financial Officers reports.
On the operating an acceptable exit from the USA, an objective discussed in some and financial front I would like to note: detail in last years annual report.
I repeat a comment made then that this outcome requires us to resolve a number of highly A continued strong financial performance, complex issues on which we are making good headway in an Growth in net written premiums and operating result, area which will remain difficult to predict.
If anything, this was an understatement of the challenge.
Although we signed the MBO Our operational improvement programme and other cost agreement with Arrowpoint Capital the new company set up by initiatives are ahead of target, our former US management team to acquire our US operations Further strengthening of our capital and balance sheet position, in the calendar year 2006, the necessary regulatory approval for the transaction was finally agreed just prior to the disposal being The delisting from the New York Stock Exchange NYSE completed and announced on 4 March 2007. and deregistration from the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
The US exit was a significant management achievement.
It required very substantial effort and attention from the senior We announced in October a revised organisation structure and management and the Board.
management changes to strengthen growth and development plans in our chosen markets.
Bridget McIntyre, following her The range and scale of issues related to delivering an acceptable appointment in 2005, has continued to strengthen our UK basis of exit from the US, required the Board in making any final market position.
Simon Lee has been appointed to head an judgement to balance a series of issues, not least including: International division comprising our large overseas units.
The Our responsibility to policyholders, smaller companies in Emerging Markets have been focused under Paul Whittaker with a key task of accelerating further Our fiduciary duties to shareholders, profitable growth.
There were further senior management Our obligations to our regulators.
changes to our top hundred managers involving both the promotion of internal candidates and external appointments.
This has been a long and complex project and has required the A new Chief Executive of Scandinavia, Rickard Gustafson, has fullest involvement of the Board.
The Board have been resolute been appointed following the retirement of Jens Erik Christensen.
in their approach and are confident that the deal represents the Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 5 appropriate deal for both policyholders and shareholders.
Whilst it is normal to thank my Board colleagues generally at the end of my report, I would like to specifically thank them on this occasion for their diligence, input and overall contribution into what has proved to be an acceptable exit from our US operation.
Finally, despite the demands of our US exit, other essential and important objectives were also achieved in 2006.
This was a significant test of management and a very considerable achievement.
With respect to issues related to continuing operational improvement, and strengthened management control, of particular note has been the launch of a Technical Academy for underwriting and claims.
There has also been the continuation of our plans to improve operational effectiveness, reduce costs, retire by rotation and stand for re-election this year is significant improve competitiveness and customer service.
Although these and include Edward Lea, John Maxwell, Noel Harwerth, Malcolm involve some further loss of headcount, with an announced Le May and George Culmer.
They form part of a key Board reduction of over 1,500 to be effective by June 2008, we team that I have already warmly commended.
continue to positively engage with staff and management at all levels on those key objectives.
Our staff understand and support The outlook as seen by the Board is positive.
We have firm plans our goal to be the best-in-class.
We thank them and appreciate to both improve existing performance and grow and develop our their support, upon which our continued progress depends.
The priorities for the Company are clear and, despite competitive market conditions, particularly in the UK, we Having noted our success in achieving our strategic aims and aim to make full use of our strategic portfolio.
We see ourselves core performance objectives, and with confidence in our plans to as a Company with a quality set of businesses and strong and further improve the business, the Board considered our dividend effective management, well able, in relative terms, to face with policy.
As a reflection of your Boards confidence in the future confidence world market uncertainties.
At the time of writing, the sustainability of the earnings of the Company, we announced 2007 pattern in international financial markets has been of some at our preliminary results on 8 March a 35% increase in the limited instability with market willingness to self-correct and seek final dividend for 2006.
We plan to increase the 2007 interim reasonable stability.
With that comment in mind, I would like to dividend level by at least inflation plus 35% and thereafter plan repeat what I said at the beginning: namely as a Company we can to grow dividends at least in line with inflation.
now put our restructuring plans behind us and accelerate further On Board composition matters two changes have occurred.
our plans to improve and grow profitably our portfolio of businesses.
We welcomed Simon Lee, CEO of our International business, to the Board on 1 January 2007.
At the same time, David Paige, Group Risk Director, retired from full-time employment to take up a portfolio career.
David made a significant contribution to our risk and regulatory areas and we would like to wish him further success on his new career path.
The number of directors who John Napier Chairman Royal & SunAlliance 6 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Group CEOs business review It has been an important year for the Group during which we have continued to deliver on our strategic and financial objectives We have continued to supplement our organic growth with m 2006 2005 selective acquisitions in Ireland, the UK, Norway and Canada.
The Net written premiums 5,484 5,300 acquisitions along with the distribution deals that we announced Underwriting result 310 263 in 2006 are expected to contribute premiums of over 400m Operating result 780 743 when at a full run rate.
Combined operating ratio COR 93.3% 94.1% While we look to profitably grow the business, our commitment is Underlying return on equity 20.7% 21.6% to sustainable profitable performance.
In 2006 weve continued to deliver against this.
We have increased the underwriting profit Over the last four years, we have built a portfolio with a by 18% to 310m and weve improved the operating result by good geographic spread and strong market positions.
The combined operating ratio of just have also been focused on operational excellence in our over 93%, marks the twelfth consecutive quarter of combined underwriting, claims and expense management.
The benefits ratios in the nineties.
of this work are clearly evident in our financial performance, The after tax loss of 20m reflects the expected 499m and in 2006 weve delivered another strong result.
writedown of the US operation and US trading loss for the year.
Last year I also set out our plans to come off risk in the US On a like-for-like basis, profit after tax from continuing operations and bring finality and certainty to our exposure.
In line with increased by 14% reflecting the strength of the ongoing Group.
this strategy, in September, we announced the disposal of our Operating result m US business to the US management team through a company called Arrowpoint Capital.
Weve now completed the transaction, 780 resolving the last of the Groups legacy issues and completing 743 the Group restructuring we started in 2003.
The disposal allows us to focus solely on the development of our 623 ongoing businesses and to continue to deliver on our objective of building one of the leading Property and Casualty insurers.
Strong financial performance During 2006, we have increased net written premiums by 3% to 5.5bn.
In each of our regions there are opportunities to profitably grow the franchise and new business was up 26% on last year.
2004 2005 2006 In Denmark, Sweden and Italy we are growing ahead of the market, while in Canada, the Baltics and Latin America we have Across the Group, each of the regions has delivered a strong continued to achieve double digit growth.
The UK remains our result.
The UK combined of 92.3% is in line with last year and the toughest market with premiums broadly in line with last year, underwriting result is up 4% to 160m.
The Commercial combined reflecting our disciplined approach.
of 92.6% remains strong, while in Personal we have achieved an Across the Group, retention rates remained strong at 83%.
excellent result, improving the combined ratio by 4 points to 91.6%.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 7 In International we have improved the combined ratio by nearly a point to 94.0%.
The underwriting result is up by 35% to 85m, driven by continued strong performances in Canada, Europe, Asia and the Middle East.
Canada has achieved another outstanding result with an 85% increase in the underwriting result to 48m.
The Latin American combined of 103.7% reflects acquisition integration costs, higher reinsurance costs and the impact of some adverse weather and large losses.
We have taken the opportunity to strengthen the leadership team with the appointments of a new regional CEO, CFO and a new Risk Director and with the actions we have taken, we expect to see the result improve during 2007.
Scandinavia delivered another good performance with a combined of 93.9% and a 15% improvement in the underwriting key areas.
The purpose of the Academy is to develop the next result to 75m.
This was driven by a positive rating environment generation of talent, utilise our technical skills to support our growth and improvements we have made to our claims management.
plans and ensure we are driving best practices across the Group.
These results have been achieved against the backdrop of a In terms of expenses, we have now achieved our original goal of competitive market and highlight the benefits of our balanced 270m of savings ahead of schedule.
In June, we announced a portfolio.
new target to reduce headcount by over 1,500 and to deliver a The rating environment has remained mixed by business class further 130m of expense savings by the middle of 2008.
In Personal lines, weve seen rate increases in the are making good progress.
We have reduced headcount by over low single digits across our core markets.
In Commercial, while 1,000 and are on track to deliver the new savings targets ahead the environment has remained stable through the year, rates of schedule.
Our focus on technical and operational excellence is supported Operational excellence by tight management controls.
In underwriting, we have a clearly Against this market backdrop, our strong financial performance defined risk appetite and a system of global licensing to ensure has been driven by our focus on operational excellence and that it is enforced.
We implement a Group wide technical pricing strong management controls.
It covers the work we are doing strategy, backed up by active portfolio management.
We hold on underwriting, pricing, claims and expense management as detailed quarterly reviews with each business and carry out well as the discipline with which we run the business.
regular audits of business won and business lost.
Our underwriting and claims skills are market leading and provide It is why we are confident that were taking on the right business a real source of competitive advantage.
In 2006 we launched putting rate through where it is required and walking away when our Technical Academy to ensure we remain best in class in these we cant get the right price, terms or conditions.
Royal & SunAlliance 8 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Group CEOs business review continued Delivering strong financial performance also means having the Group reorganisation best people on the team.
Last year I talked about how we were Over the last couple of years, we have built a balanced portfolio embedding a performance culture throughout the business.
of high performing businesses with strong market positions.
Our It is about giving people clear accountability and responsibility objective is to target profitable growth across the Group and in as well as opportunities to develop their careers.
2006 we reorganised to give us the right structure to deliver on this objective.
Part of achieving this culture means having differentiated reward based on performance at all levels.
In 2003, only 15% Under the new structure, the Group is organised into three of employees had pay linked to their performance.
We set regions International, Emerging Markets and the UK.
ourselves a target of increasing this to 90% of employees by International continues to be headed by Simon Lee.
It now includes the end of 2006, and I am pleased to report that we have now Scandinavia where weve appointed Rickard Gustafson as the new met this target.
CEO, as well as Canada, Ireland and Italy.
Our objective is to drive Just as we reward superior performance, we take action on the businesses harder and deliver growth ahead of the market.
Of our top 100 management group, weve Emerging Markets comprises the Groups operations in Latin changed out around 10% during the year.
We have appointed America, Asia and the Middle East and the Baltics.
It is headed 12 people from outside the Group into senior roles and we have up by Paul Whittaker who has substantial experience in Eastern continued to promote talent from within the business, with 15 Europe and Asia.
At R&SA, hes been a key part of the Executive of our top managers moving into roles of greater responsibility.
During the year, we have had a real focus on employee Emerging Markets is our fastest growing region and has development.
In addition to the Technical Academy, we have enormous potential.
Weve established good positions in Latin launched a number of new initiatives such as FastTrack, an America, Asia and the Middle East and the Baltics and our plan accelerated scheme for high potential graduates.
Our Executive is to continue to drive growth of around 15% per annum in order Development Programme entered its third year and has been to double premiums by 2010. highly successful, with 70% of participants in the first two programmes now in more senior roles.
Bridget McIntyre continues to lead the UK and is driving the business forward.
In Broker, were expanding in our target trades Part of our culture is about listening to our people and taking and segments such as Marine and Profin.
In Retail, were growing action on their feedback.
We have again completed our annual MORE TH N new business was up nearly 30% in 2006 and global employee survey and on the back of actions taken last we have taken this good momentum into 2007.
In Affinity, we year the overall satisfaction response improved 3%.
entered a major deal with Paymentshield during the year and we We use the results to build clear action plans to address issues are confident well meet our target of over 50% growth by 2010. raised and make improvements in each of our businesses.
One of In each of our businesses, were driving a real customer focus, the areas we continue to focus on is driving further improvement whether its in new product development or customer service.
In in the level of employee engagement across the business in Commercial, were leveraging our global expertise to develop new order to support the Groups strategic and financial objectives.
customer propositions such as our One Stop Cargo offering for Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 9 the international marine market.
In Personal lines, were Driving sustainable profitable performance leading the market on new product innovation to meet changing Our overriding commitment is to sustainable profitable customer demands.
During the year we became the first insurer performance.
We will continue to deliver this through the in the UK to offer discounts for drivers of hybrid cars and following discipline and focus with which we run the businesses combined the successful launch of the product, we have now rolled it out in with the balance and strength of our portfolio.
Its a good example of where we are able to take successful In 2007 were confident that each region will again deliver a initiatives from one market to another.
We are committed to providing high levels of customer The strength of the portfolio will be evident as we shift capacity service and are always looking for ways to improve our offering.
to where we see the best opportunities.
We expect International In Canada, our Personal lines business, Johnson has been a to deliver a greater proportion of the Groups underwriting result, market leader in terms of its customer service.
This year, we largely driven by an improved Scandinavian performance.
took their model of personal account managers for every customer and piloted it in the UK with 60,000 MORE TH N Across the Group, our current expectation is that we will deliver customers.
Feedback was so positive, that we have now made a combined ratio of better than 95% for the full year.
the service available to all MORE TH N customers.
Over the past four years, weve built a track record of delivering on our commitments.
And we take this same level of energy, drive Combined operating ratio % and ambition into the next phase of the Companys development.
97.7 97.4 96.0 96.0 95.7 95.5 We have a clear strategy, a strong portfolio of businesses, market 94.2 94.0 93.8 leading underwriting and claims skills, and a team with a real focus 91.8 91.8 91.6 on execution.
It is a powerful combination and its why were confident about the long term sustainability of our performance.
Andy Haste Group CEO Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 04 04 04 04 05 05 05 05 06 06 06 06 Royal & SunAlliance 10 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Market leading capabilities Driving profitable performance through technical expertise, operational improvement and performance management insurance solution.
We were awarded Claims Initiative of the Year Delivered a 0.8 point improvement in the COR to 93.3% with Marishal Thompson for our work on subsidence risks.
Targeting 130m of annualised savings by mid 2008 Since 2004, we have transformed our claims capabilities and Industry recognition processes and built a market leading supply chain, which has Technical Academy promoting and developing expertise significantly reduced claim costs.
Our supply chain is now used Energised teams driving the business forward by Lloyds TSB and Co-operative Insurance Services.
We have established a Technical Academy to promote and We are focused on driving sustainable profitable performance develop underwriting, claims and actuarial expertise across the through technical excellence, continuous operational improvement Group.
The Academy shares best practice and provides a career and performance management.
Our technical expertise has development framework for those working in technical disciplines.
driven the delivery of 12 consecutive quarters of sub 100 CORs, We are also implementing a Groupwide sales effectiveness and the 0.8 point improvement in the 2006 COR to 93.3%.
programme to strengthen the sales tools, infrastructure and Our strong results are driven by a culture of delivery, discipline, reward processes to drive disciplined profitable growth.
technical expertise and continuous operational improvement.
We have embedded a performance management culture with Over the last three years we have implemented new claims and clear accountabilities and reward aligned to performance.
During policy systems, enhanced the control environment and delivered the year, we continued to strengthen the top management team.
270m of cost savings ahead of plan.
We have committed to The business is committed to investing in talent to develop its deliver an additional 130m of annualised savings by mid 2008 people, including through Executive Development and FastTrack and in the UK and Scandinavia we are progressing well towards programmes.
We have a strong, highly motivated, energised our target sub 15% expense ratio.
team driving the business forward.
In the UK, our technical excellence continues to be recognised by Through the combination of our technical expertise, performance the industry.
In 2006, we were awarded the title of British Insurer management culture and focus on operational excellence, we will of the Year at the British Insurance Awards, and our marine continue delivering sustainable profitable performance.
business received a British Insurance Award for its Aquaculture Leading technical expertise We have a strong reputation for our technical expertise and work closely with our clients to provide tailored risk management and insurance solutions.
We continuously focus on enhancing our capabilities to drive sustainable profitable performance.
Our reputation for strong technical expertise is an integral part of our customer proposition.
In the UK for example, we insure 70% of FTSE 100 retailers and have customer relationships dating back over 200 years.
This, together with our leading claims management processes, helps drive our strong retention levels and profitable growth.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 11 Profitable growth Delivering profitable growth in target markets through a disciplined approach we are using our technical expertise to develop tailored customer Clear growth targets for each business propositions and risk solutions.
Renewable energy, for example, Focus on target trades and segments is a rapidly growing sector and we have quickly built a strong wind Building momentum new business up 26% in 2006 turbine proposition in Canada, Scandinavia and Ireland.
Strong retention across the Group at 83% By expanding distribution, we are finding more ways to profitably Tailored customer propositions and risk solutions access new customers.
Our agreement with Paymentshield, the UKs largest independent supplier of mortgage related insurance, Our overriding objective is to deliver sustainable earnings is expected to deliver over 200m of premiums in 2008.
In we will only grow where we can do so profitably.
We are building Scandinavia, our motor dealership proposition now provides strong positions in our target markets using our technical us with access to around 30% of the new car market in Denmark expertise and customer focus to expand distribution and and 27% in Sweden.
In Canada, Johnson signed a number of enhance our customer propositions.
affinity deals during 2006 giving it access to a potential 400,000 new customers.
Each of our businesses has clear growth targets.
In the UK, we are aiming to grow our Affinity business by more than 50%, strengthen Our increasing customer focus is reflected in our strong new our number three retail position and move to number one in business and retention levels.
In the UK, we have customer Broker by 2010.
In Scandinavia, we are aiming to strengthen our relationships that go back more than 200 years.
In our mature number three market position, while in Canada, Ireland and Italy we markets, we are using customer segmentation to develop innovative are targeting 10% annual premium growth.
We are targeting 15% products to attract new customers and widen our target customer growth per annum in Latin America, Asia and the Middle East and base.
In the UK, MORE TH N has recently launched a number of the Baltics, in order to double premiums in 2010 from 2005 levels.
propositions aimed at increasing customer acquisition and retention, Over the same period, we intend increasing gross written premiums to increase profitability and opportunities for cross selling.
Our focus on profitable market and customer segments, combined We focus on target trades and segments that provide with our technical expertise, means that the Group is well positioned opportunities for profitable growth.
Within these segments, to continue to deliver profitable growth.
Caption heading Expanding our motor proposition In 2006 in Scandinavia we signed a number In 2006 in Scandinavia we signed a number of of agreements with motor manufacturers and distribution agreements with motor manufacturers distributors.
These agreements include Peugeot and distributors.
These agreements include Peugeot and Volkswagen in Sweden and Toyota in Denmark.
and Volkswagen in Sweden and Toyota in Denmark.
Through these agreements we have access to around Through these agreements we have access to 27% 27% of the Swedish new car market and around 30% of the Swedish new car market and around 30% of of the Danish car market.
the Danish new car market.
In the UK we have strong relationships with some In the UK we have strong relationships with major of the major manufacturers including Toyota, Land manufacturers including Toyota, Land Rover and Volvo.
We continue to develop these We continue to develop our motor proposition and motor proposition and this year we have signed this year we have signed a new agreement with Kia.
Royal & SunAlliance 12 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 UK business review Building momentum in target markets and delivering sustainable profitable performance 2006 General Insurer of the Year operational improvements and cost efficiencies.
To improve m 2006 2005 our competitiveness, we are targeting 70m of annualised cost Net written premiums 2,618 2,632 savings by mid 2008 and a sub 15% expense ratio.
Underwriting result 160 154 Business progress against strategies Combined operating ratio COR 92.3% 93.1% In 2006, the UK delivered another strong result, with an 0.8 point improvement in the COR to 92.3% and a 4% increase in the It has been another year of significant achievement for underwriting result to 160m.
New business increased by 31% our UK business.
We have delivered another strong result, to 559m, while net written premiums were in line with last year, demonstrating our commitment to disciplined technical demonstrating our commitment to disciplined underwriting and underwriting and continuous operational improvement.
2006 we continued to build momentum and our capabilities, The business continued to make excellent progress towards creating an excellent platform from which to drive future delivering on our expense targets, reducing the expense ratio profitable performance.
We were named General Insurer by 1.3% to 18.1%.
This year we have reduced headcount by of the Year at the 2006 British Insurance Awards.
over 550 against our target of 1,000 by mid 2008.
Overview of major strategies Commercial We are aiming to become number one in the broker market for UK Commercial performed well, delivering a COR of 92.6%.
In Commercial, we are This is our most competitive market: net written premiums were leveraging our reputation for technical excellence and innovative down 2% to 1,770m, reflecting our commitment to disciplined risk solutions to deliver profitable growth and manage retention underwriting.
Retention remains strong at 84%, reflecting the in our target markets.
quality of our underwriting and our customer focus.
In Personal, we are aiming to strengthen our number three In our target segments, we continued to build momentum, retail position by enhancing our customer focus.
Using increasing new business by 31% to 298m with strong growth increased customer segmentation and pricing sophistication, in Marine, Profin and Risk Solutions.
In November, we acquired we are launching increasingly tailored customer propositions Martello Underwriting Limited, a specialist provider of professional and innovative products to attract new customers and build indemnity insurance and expect this business to deliver premiums retention.
We plan to grow our Affinity business by over 50% of around 40m in 2007. by 2010 from 2005 levels.
Personal The UK market remains very competitive, and we will only write UK Personal improved the COR by 4 points to 91.6% and the business that is profitable.
We are supporting our profit led underwriting result by 67% to 65m.
Household performed stance on rating by continuing to build our underwriting and particularly strongly, delivering a COR of 80.9%, while motor claims management capabilities and successfully driving further MORE TH N DriveTime We are increasing the use of sophisticated underwriting tools to tailor our products to our customers and price our risks.
In 2006, MORE TH N launched DriveTime, a telematics product aimed at reducing young driver accidents.
An in-car telematics system monitors when a car is driven, rewarding drivers aged between 18-25 with reduced insurance premiums if they dont drive their cars between 11.00pm and 6.00am, the time when 40% of young driver accidents result in death or serious injury.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 13 improved its COR by 0.4 points to 102.5%.
Net written premiums Since 2004, we have transformed our claims capabilities and increased 2% to 848m and new business was up 31%.
processes and built a market leading supply chain, which has significantly reduced claim costs.
Our supply chain is now used MORE TH N recorded another impressive performance, by Lloyds TSB and Co-operative Insurance Services.
improving its COR by 3.7 points to 88.7%.
New business sales were up 28% and net written premiums increased 2% to 441m.
Market conditions The expense ratio was 22%, down from 24.1% at the end of 2005 The UK is the Groups most competitive market and we anticipate and we are on track to achieve our sub 20% target expense ratio similar conditions in 2007.
It has been a challenging year but we by the end of 2007. have continued to deliver profitable growth.
In Personal Intermediated we signed 11 new distribution In Commercial, the distribution market is evolving with the agreements, including Paymentshield, the UKs largest independent emergence of new channels creating new opportunities for insurers supplier of mortgage related insurance.
We expect this deal to with strong customer propositions.
Partnership agreements offer generate premiums of over 200m in 2008. growth opportunities in the regional broker market and provide access to high volumes of business within our risk criteria.
Technical excellence We continue to build our reputation through our technical The Personal market remains competitive.
In Motor, we have excellence and risk solutions.
By segmenting our customer base consistently put rate through ahead of the market over the and enhancing our pricing sophistication, we are able to tailor last three years, and we are now seeing some evidence of pricing to different customer groups and develop innovative an improvement in rates.
In 2006, MORE TH N launched DriveTime, a product Outlook aimed at 18-25 year olds which uses GPS technology to reward We are committed to maintaining underwriting discipline drivers with reduced premiums if they do not drive at peak times and rigorous risk selection to deliver sustainable profitable when accidents occur.
MORE TH N has also used sophisticated performance.
In Commercial, we will continue to focus on our risk analysis to broaden its motor customer base, increasing target trades and segments and use our industry recognised average motor premiums by 10% over 2006. technical skills to maintain strong retention.
We will continue to Our underwriting risk assessment is market leading and our innovate our product offerings and pricing to realise the growth complex flood mapping, arson and crime risk models enable potential of MORE TH N and achieve a sub 20% expense ratio.
us to accurately price risks.
Our technical excellence continues In Affinity, we will continue to target new opportunities and deliver to receive industry recognition.
In 2006, our marine business profitable growth from the deals we completed in 2006. received a British Insurance Award for its Aquaculture insurance By continuing to build our capabilities and new business solution, and we were awarded Claims Initiative of the Year momentum, our UK business will continue to deliver sustainable with Marishal Thompson for our work on subsidence risks.
Commercial net written premiums 1,770m New business premiums Combined operating ratio 31% 92.3% Property 661m Motor 592m Casualty 330m Other 187m Royal & SunAlliance 14 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 International business review A strong portfolio of businesses focused on maximising opportunities for profitable growth in mature markets Business progress against strategies m 2006 2005 Our business in Scandinavia is the largest in the portfolio Net written premiums 2,334 2,221 accounting for 55% of International premiums.
We are the third Underwriting result 149 122 largest insurer in the region and are driving the business as a Combined operating ratio COR 93.1% 93.9% pan-Nordic organisation with a portfolio of very strong local brands, principally Codan in Denmark and Trygg-Hansa in Sweden.
These brands each have a prompted brand awareness International brings together our businesses in Scandinavia of almost 100%.
Sweden, Denmark and Norway, Canada, Ireland and Italy enabling us to drive strategies for growth in mature markets The Scandinavian business performed strongly again in 2006, on a regional basis.
International delivered excellent results with 4% growth in net written premiums on a local basis and an in 2006, with a 5% increase in net written premiums and a 18% increase in the underwriting result.
In Commercial, we have focused our sales teams on specific Overview of major strategies customer segments and developed tailored customer value We continue to focus on driving sustainable profitable growth propositions.
As a result, growth rates have increased significantly, ahead of the market and building market share in our target particularly in the Marine and Health Insurance portfolios.
We are delivering this through a combination of We continue to strengthen our market positions in Personal organic growth and acquisitions in existing territories.
lines in Scandinavia and have increased net written premiums We are successfully driving growth by exploiting alternative by 6%.
We have expanded our distribution capacity, signing distribution channels, taking a segmented approach to our target additional agreements with car dealers in both Denmark and customer base and developing new customer propositions.
We now have access to 27% of the Swedish new car are sharing best practice and looking for cost synergies across market and around 30% of the Danish market and continue the region.
Long term expense management is a key priority to grow our market share.
In Denmark, our bancassurance and all businesses are delivering on this important element of partnerships give us access to over two-thirds of banks in our strategy.
The geographic spread of our International businesses allows We continue to build our platform in the Norwegian market.
us to access markets at different points in the rating cycle.
We acquired White Label Holding AS Group and Duborgh This diversification is a key component in the sustainability Skadeforsikring AS, who are leading specialist providers of of our results.
Personal and Commercial affinity products in Norway.
These Global marine proposition We are a top three marine insurer in Canada and Scandinavia.
Building on the marine expertise within International and UK businesses, we have launched One Stop Cargo a comprehensive global offering.
This product has been developed to provide small and medium sized businesses and general merchandise cargo owners with access to leading expertise, global capabilities and competitive pricing.
It has flexible cover options and can be purchased online or through R&SAs global network.
One Stop Cargo was initially launched in Ireland, Asia and the Middle East and will be rolled out more widely across the Group during 2007.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 15 businesses also have a growing presence in Sweden and are In line with our strategy of targeting specific segments, we expanding into Denmark.
In 2007, we expect these businesses acquired EGI Holdings Ltd in Ireland during the year.
This to generate premiums of around 50m.
established business, with strong positions in selected liability and motor lines, extends our range of expertise and product offerings.
Canada has again delivered excellent results, with a 15% increase in net written premiums reflecting a strong performance Italy outperformed the market in terms of top line growth, and by Johnson, our direct Personal business and Commercial.
The delivered a strong increase in underwriting profit.
We continue Canadian business delivered a 2.8 point improvement in the COR to invest in our broker extranet, which is increasing the efficiency to 92% and increased the underwriting result by 85% to 48m.
Electronic broker transactions increased This reflects the benefits of our disciplined risk selection, claims by 126% during the year.
Our non-tied agent recruitment is on management and the continued delivery of cost savings.
track with a further 35 appointments during the year.
The Commercial business delivered a 27% increase in net written Outlook premiums.
Strong new business growth across all regions was We are experiencing strong competition in all our markets but, for supported by the launch of innovative products and quoting the most part, pricing discipline is holding.
We continue to maintain tools, including the continued roll out of RapideQuote which a rigorous approach to improving our sales effectiveness and is now used by over 425 brokers.
are starting to see the benefits of this in a robust pipeline of new business.
We also remain open to further strengthening our Johnson increased net written premiums by 25%, reflecting both portfolio by acquisition.
strong organic growth and the successful integration of the Morgex and Shillington acquisitions.
New affinity deals were signed during We have undertaken a range of initiatives to improve operational the year and Johnson now has access to sponsorship groups efficiency and are exploiting the many sales and operational and credit unions representing 2.9 million members.
Johnson advantages that the web provides.
In addition, we are on track to continues to develop a strong pipeline of bolt-on acquisitions.
deliver 40m of cost savings, which represents Internationals share of the Group target.
As a result of these initiatives and our In the Personal Intermediated business, we signed 82 new developing pipeline, we anticipate steady improvements in the contracts with brokers, taking the number of new broker contracts expense ratio.
In 2007, we expect International to represent an increased Ireland produced another good result in a competitive proportion of the Groups underwriting result and our market.
We continue to hold the number one market position Scandinavian business to deliver an improved combined in household.
Enterprise, a local telephone-based service operating ratio of 91-93% 2006: 93.9%.
offering for brokers, underpinned a positive commercial lines performance.
Net written premiums 2,334m Underwriting result Combined operating ratio 22% 93.1% Scandinavia 1,280m Canada 662m Other Europe 392m Royal & SunAlliance 16 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Emerging Markets business review Exposure to faster growing, high potential markets we improved the overall underwriting result by 83% to 11m, m 2006 2005 demonstrating the strength of the Emerging Markets portfolio.
Net written premiums 531 440 Latin America delivered a 26% increase in premiums, reflecting Underwriting result 11 6 strong underlying growth and the successful integration of our Combined operating ratio COR 97.3% 96.4% 2005 acquisition of Cruz del Sur in Chile.
We are focused on driving growth in market segments where we have strong During 2006 we brought together our businesses across positions and a competitive advantage.
In Brazil, our marine Latin America, the Baltics and Asia and the Middle East, to franchise continued to perform strongly, growing premiums by strengthen our strategic focus on these fast growing markets 50% in 2006 and we are building on this regional expertise with and fully realise the operations profitable growth potential.
the launch of Carga Royal in Colombia.
Expanding distribution Emerging Markets delivered an excellent 21% increase in net was a key driver of growth in Venezuela where we added 420 written premiums and a combined operating ratio of 97.3%.
new agents during the year.
Overview of major strategies The additional reinsurance and one-off integration costs noted Emerging Markets is our fastest growing business.
We see above, impacted the Latin America result, increasing the COR to significant growth potential in both Commercial and Personal 103.7% for the year.
In Commercial, strong Gross Domestic Product GDP Asia and the Middle East delivered another excellent result with growth is driving a greater requirement for risk transfer and in a COR of 83.1%.
The business delivered underlying double digit Personal, a more affluent population, with more assets at risk is premium growth after adjusting for the disposal of the Japanese leading to a greater propensity to insure.
We are focused on business in 2005.
Motor was a key driver of growth in the region, delivering profitable growth through expanding distribution, particularly in the Middle East, where we have increased volumes disciplined underwriting and improving operational performance, after web-enabling our brokers, allowing them to transact more and will complement organic growth with acquisitions that efficiently with us.
accelerate the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Our joint venture in India increased premiums by 38% over the By 2010 we expect to double net written premiums from 2005 year.
We are focused on accelerating the development of this levels in the Baltics, Latin America and Asia and the Middle East, business, and would look to increase our shareholding should the and to increase gross written premiums in India to 200m.
Indian government lift the 26% cap on foreign direct investment.
Business progress against strategies The Baltics continue to deliver strong net written premium growth In 2006 there were floods in Chile, storms in Mexico and with premiums up 31% to 114m, driven by strong performances increased reinsurance costs in Latin America following hurricanes in both Personal and Commercial lines.
The COR was 92.2% Emily, Katrina and Wilma.
Despite the impact of these events, Santiago, Chile Chile is one of the most vibrant and stable economies in Latin America benefiting from a mineral rich environment, low inflation and high levels of foreign trade.
In 2007 GDP growth is forecast to exceed 5% and Chileans spend more per head on insurance than any other Latin American country.
We are the clear market leader following our acquisition of Cruz del Sur in 2005, with 17% market share.
Our business is headquartered in Santiago which is home to around 40% of the Chilean population.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 17 compared with 90.1% in 2005.
In Latvia, new car sales increased industry in the region, through the introduction of call centres, by 53% in 2006 and we now have agreements in place with over centralised claims handling and more sophisticated pricing 50% of major car dealerships in the country.
We are focused on writing business profitably in all of our markets and in 2007, have increased prices and introduced Market and economic conditions deductibles in Latvia to combat strong claims inflation.
Our Emerging Markets business covers 20 countries with economies at differing stages of development and growth.
In the second half of 2007 we will launch our Estonian operation.
Premium volumes are growing strongly in the Middle East and Leveraging the expertise of our existing Baltic operations, we are Baltics, and in Latin America there are some signs of increasing confident of building a strong franchise to realise the growth rates following the hurricanes in 2005.
In Asia, increased capacity potential we see in this exciting market.
is creating downward pressure on rates.
We have taken a number of actions designed to improve the Other initiatives performance of our Latin American operations, including the We are building a senior team at the centre with specialist appointment of a new CEO, CFO and Risk Director at the regional technical knowledge to drive product development and growth level, and a new CEO in Mexico.
Following these actions, we expect across the business.
This team is supported by key appointments an improvement in the Latin American underwriting performance at a regional level including a new CEO for Latin America.
In the Baltics, we have implemented a number of operational We will continue to leverage the technical expertise and operational efficiency initiatives including automatic renewals on our motor, efficiency initiatives of the R&SA Group to build competitive accident and property portfolios.
These actions increase customer advantage and strengthen profitability.
In preparation for the retention and free our agent network from administrative tasks Indian detariffication which was implemented on 1 January 2007, allowing them to focus on new business sales.
we significantly enhanced our pricing capability.
Although tariffs were not fully liberalised, our enhanced segmentation and risk Net Promoter Score surveys, which measure customer advocacy, selection capability provides us with a real competitive advantage.
have been successfully piloted in the UAE, Hong Kong and Latin America and will be rolled out more widely across Emerging The Emerging Markets region is exciting, with high growth Markets in 2007.
We are committed to ensuring that our potential.
With the strength of the R&SA Group, our businesses customers have positive experiences when dealing with us, and are well positioned to deliver on the profitable growth implementing improvements advocated by them should lead to opportunities that this region presents.
We are committed to stronger retention and increased cross selling opportunities.
underwriting discipline and continuous operational improvement to continue to drive sustainable profitable performance.
Outlook Our Baltic operations are leading the modernisation of the Net written premiums 531m Underwriting result Net written premiums 83% 21% Latin America 314m Baltics 114m Asia & Middle East 103m Royal & SunAlliance 18 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Financial review Strong, sustainable earnings and increasing capital strength Results overview Analysis of result 2006 2005 Movement 2006 was another strong year for the Group, with 3% growth in m m % net written premiums and a 5% increase in the operating result.
Net written premiums 5,484 5,300 3 In March 2007, we completed the sale of our US business to Underwriting result 310 263 18 Arrowpoint Capital.
In the 2006 results, we have reclassified the 1 Investment result 556 580 4 business as held for sale and it is shown as a discontinued item Insurance result 866 843 3 in the income statement.
The writedown of the US operation and 2 Other activities 86 100 14 the trading loss for the year totals 499m after tax.
Operating result 780 743 5 Net written premiums 3 Other movements 130 155 16 Net written premiums increased by 3% to 5.5bn, demonstrating Profit on change in pension the strength of our portfolio, with a disciplined approach in the UK, scheme design 180 above market growth in Scandinavia and double digit growth in Loss profit on disposals 1 126 International.
4 Profit before tax 649 894 27 Operating result Tax 170 259 34 The operating result increased 5% to 780m, comprising an Profit after tax from improved underwriting result and lower central expenses, offset continuing operations 479 635 25 by a lower investment result.
Discontinued activities The 18% increase in the underwriting result to 310m reflects Loss after tax from stronger underwriting performances across all of our regions, and discontinued operations 499 30 our disciplined approach to underwriting and claims and expense Loss profit after tax 20 605 management.
Combined operating ratio 93.3 94.1 0.8pts The underwriting result includes a 39m strengthening of our UK Shareholders funds 2,561 2,686 5 asbestos reserves following an increase in the frequency of claims Guide to terms notifications during the year.
Investment result Comprises investment income, certain realised gains and unrealised gains losses, In Scandinavia, we have strengthened our 2001 and prior impairments, foreign exchange and the unwind of discount.
Swedish personal accident and motor third party reserves.
Other activities The result for other activities comprises: strengthening has been offset by positive experience for these the operating result from non insurance activities, lines in more recent years following management actions, and the movement in non insurance derivatives, income from associates, the release of surplus in our Danish Personal and Commercial central Group expenses, motor business.
Going forward, we do not anticipate any further investment expenses and charges.
material strengthening of our Swedish personal reserves.
Other movements Other movements include interest charges on debt, amortisation and reorganisation costs.
The Groups overall reserve position remains strong and our 4.
Profit before tax Profit before tax is shown on a management basis.
Profit before tax on a statutory basis is reserves are stronger at the end of the year than at the start shown on page 45. of the year.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 19 The investment result of 556m is marginally lower than 2005 and comprises a 4% increase in investment income, offset by lower realised and unrealised gains.
The increase in investment income reflects a 0.2bn increase in the average size of the portfolio, while the average yield remained in line with last year at 4%.
I currently expect that the 2007 total investment result will be broadly in line with 2006.
Other activities predominantly comprise central Group expenses and investment expenses.
In 2006, central Group expenses were 74m, 10% lower than 2005, reflecting a small increase in project costs and a 16% reduction in head office expenses.
Other activities also include a 12m gain on the expiration of two derivatives contracts.
Interest costs on the Groups senior and subordinated debt Loss after tax decreased by 15m to 92m, reflecting the repayment of In 2006, we incurred a loss after tax of 20m, compared with a senior debt during the year.
This movement reflects the writedown Amortisation of 15m was charged in respect of software assets and of the US operations in 2006, and the one off benefits of a goodwill on acquired claims provisions, compared with 11m in 2005. number of disposals and the impact of the change in the UK pension scheme design in 2005.
Reorganisation costs of 23m relate to the costs of implementing the Groups operational improvement programme.
This The table below sets out a reconciliation of the operating result restructuring programme announced at the time of the Rights to the loss after tax: Issue is now complete and no further restructuring costs will be 2006 2005 Movement m m % charged to the income statement in 2007.
Operating result 780 743 5 Profit before disposals and the pension scheme change is up 11% Total interest costs 92 107 14 to 650m, while the tax charge of 170m reflects an effective tax Amortisation 15 11 36 rate of 26%.
Reorganisation costs 23 37 38 Change in pension scheme design 180 Profit after tax on continuing operations is 479m, which represents Loss profit on disposals 1 126 an underlying return on equity of 20.7%.
Profit after tax in 2005 of 635m included 216m from the disposal of our Japanese operation Profit before tax 649 894 27 and our investment in Rothschilds, as well as the change to the UK Taxation 170 259 34 pension schemes.
On a like-for-like basis, profit after tax is up 14%.
Profit after tax 479 635 25 Loss after tax from discontinued The after tax impact of our US disposal is 499m.
This comprises operations 499 30 the writedown of the net assets and the loss for the year, and the impact of the capital movements and associated transaction costs.
Loss profit after tax 20 605 Royal & SunAlliance 20 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Financial review continued 12 Months 12 Months With the completion of the disposal, in accordance with IFRS, we 2006 2005 will recycle the cumulative US foreign exchange losses of 19m m m from reserves through the income statement in the 2007 results.
Operating cashflow 817 766 This will be shown outside the operating result and will have no Interest paid 82 107 impact on net assets.
Dividends 96 138 Dividend policy Net cashflow 639 521 The directors will recommend at the Annual General Meeting, Pension deficit funding 86 86 to be held on 21 May 2007, a final dividend of 4.12p 2005: Net repayment of debt 169 86 3.05p per share.
This, together with the interim dividend of Corporate activity 355 97 1.75p paid on 30 November 2006, will make a total distribution Cash surplus 29 446 for the year of 5.87p 2005: 4.74p.
Funding by: Financial strength Increase decrease in cash The overall financial strength of the Group continues to improve, and cash equivalents 443 127 with further actions taken during 2006 on the balance sheet, Sale purchase of other investments 414 573 capital position, pension fund deficit and the Groups credit rating.
Cash surplus 29 446 Balance sheet The Groups balance sheet, cashflows and capital position have Investment policy continued to strengthen during 2006.
The Group continues to operate a low risk investment policy.
The structure of the investment portfolio remains dominated by high During 2006, we implemented a number of initiatives to improve quality fixed income and cash assets which are held to provide a the quality of our balance sheet.
The Yankee Bond Exchange and broad match to the duration of our insurance liabilities.
The Group Tender Offer replaced US$426m of sub Tier 2 capital with an also invests in equities and property to provide return whilst innovative Tier 1 perpetual security, significantly improving our ensuring an appropriate diversification of risk.
In line with our investment In addition, we further strengthened the quality of our balance policy, 8.6bn or 67% of this is invested in high quality short dated sheet by repaying our senior debt facility early and replacing this bonds.
The average duration of the portfolio is approximately with a 500m revolving facility on substantially better terms.
2.6 years, reflecting the short tail nature of the Groups insurance The Groups shareholders funds were 2.6bn at 31 December liabilities.
The percentage of the bond portfolio rated AA or better 2006 down from 2.7bn at 31 December 2005.
This movement is 83% and less than 1% is held in non investment grade.
The reflects the profits of the continuing operations offset by the average yield of the Groups portfolio is 4.0%.
writedown of the US operation.
The Groups holding in equities has remained stable for a number Cashflow of years with approximately 1.6bn or 12.5% of the investment The Groups cashflows remain strong, with operating cashflows portfolio invested in equities.
We do not envisage any significant increasing 7% over the year to 817m.
After interest and change to the Groups investment strategy.
dividend costs, net cashflow is up 23% to 639m.
Solvency position We have used these funds to meet our financing and pension We remain fully compliant with both the FSAs risk based funding commitments, and repay a net 169m of senior debt.
Internal Capital Assessment ICA methodology, and Solvency I We also financed 355m of corporate activity, which included which is used to calculate our Insurance Groups Directive IGD funding for acquisitions and new distribution deals, and Codans requirement.
share buy back and buy out of minority interests in the Baltics.
After these uses, our cash surplus for the year was 29m.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 21 For the Groups senior regulated insurance company, Royal & Sun Our pension funds now show a surplus of 24m, compared Alliance Insurance plc, we continue to report the capital position with a 239m deficit at the start of the year.
This improvement under Solvency I. is primarily due to positive market movements and the funding payment made during the year.
As at 31 December 2006, the Group had an IGD surplus of approximately 1.3bn, an increase of 0.3bn from 2005.
Rating agencies The improvement in IGD surplus is mainly attributable to the Standard & Poors S&P, AM Best and Moodys Investor Service completion of the Yankee Bond Exchange and Tender Offer, the provide insurer financial strength ratings for the Group and its profits of the continuing operations, offset by the dividend and principal subsidiaries.
These ratings are based on the detailed writedown of the US operation.
The coverage ratio has improved financial modelling of the Group and a regular assessment of from 1.6 at the end of 2005 to a very strong 1.9 times the IGD the Groups strategic direction.
Details of the Groups ratings can requirement at the end of 2006. be found in the Investor Relations section under Bond Investor Information on the Groups website www.
On completion of the disposal of our US operation, the 2006 IGD coverage ratio increases to 2.0 times the requirement, reflecting During 2006, AM Best revised their rating upward, from Athe injection of US$287.5m of capital into the US operation in negative to Aat the year end.
Following a review by Moodys, accordance with the terms of the sale, and the release of the US the Groups financial strength rating was upgraded to Baa1 IGD capital requirement.
The Group agreed its Individual Capital Guidance based on its ICA In 2007, AM Best and Moodys upgraded the Groups financial submission with the FSA in late 2005, which at the request of the strength ratings to Apositive and A3 stable respectively.
The ICA is a forward looking, economic We are committed to returning the Groups rating with all of assessment of the capital requirements of the Group based on our the major agencies to A. assessment of the risks that we are exposed to.
The models used to determine the ICA have been integrated into the Groups business Summary processes and are used to enhance the management of the Group.
2006 has again been a very successful year for the Group with continued delivery of growth, solid underlying profitability We are also implementing a number of capital management and strong cashflows.
The Group has sufficient balance sheet initiatives, including optimising the Groups regulatory structure strength to support its strategic objectives of delivering and looking at options to improve the capital efficiency of our sustainable earnings and targeted profitable growth.
Our balance sheet and capital position is strong, and the Group has sufficient capital to meet its strategic objectives and financing commitments.
Pension fund George Culmer Chief Financial Officer The table below shows the main movements in the pension funds position during 2006: m UK Other Total Pension deficit as at 1 January 2006 211 28 239 Market movement 170 2 168 Deficit funding 60 60 Other movements 53 18 35 As at 31 December 2006 72 48 24 Royal & SunAlliance 22 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Risk framework Overall risk framework Independent assurance the third line of defence, providing The Group operates under an enterprise risk management independent and objective assurance of the effectiveness of framework that is designed to identify, assess, measure the Groups systems of internal control established by the first and manage exposure to risk.
This process is subject to and second lines of defence.
This is the Group Audit Committee, continuous review and development and further work supported by Group Internal Audit.
was undertaken in 2006 to enhance the framework.
Group risk policy statements Risk management Group risk policy statements set out the minimum standards to The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of risk be maintained by the Groups operations in order to manage their management.
risks in a way that is consistent with the risk appetite.
Business managers are responsible for complying with Group and local Executive management has the responsibility for establishing risk policies and for managing risk by taking mitigating actions and implementing appropriate systems and controls in their own where risks are outside the appetite.
The Board Risk Committees areas of remit.
The Group Risk Management Framework provides oversight and challenge role includes consideration of risk mitigation.
the mechanism through which risk management and control is embedded throughout the Group.
Each Group business is Compliance with policy statements is mandatory.
Policies are required to follow a consistent process to identify, assess, subject to regular review in order to reflect changes in circumstances manage and monitor their key risks.
Group risk appetite Risk categories The Group has a process for setting risk appetite at both Group Within the Group the risk elements are viewed under headings and regional level and for monitoring compliance with this.
The that broadly correspond to those used in the Financial Services Group risk appetite sets business volumes for certain higher risk Authoritys Integrated Prudential Sourcebook PRU.
Additional insurance classes, stipulates loss retention limits, reinsurance information is provided in note 28 on pages 89 to 99 of the full protection, targets for credit rating and solvency margins, and Annual Report and Accounts.
The following details some of the key current practices, tools There is a formal escalation process for potential or emerging and other arrangements for each risk category.
risks that are outside the risk appetite.
Insurance risk Risk framework The Groups general insurance activities are primarily concerned The Group has continued to adopt the 3 lines of defence with the pricing, acceptance and management of risks arising governance model.
The framework for the oversight and from our contracts with customers.
The management of the management of risk is as follows: underwriting and claims risks uses a number of key tools, including the review of the performance and management Management the first line of defence in setting strategy, of all the individual insurance portfolios throughout the Group, performance measurement, establishment and maintenance and the investigation of potential emerging insurance risks.
of internal control and risk management in the business, Further work has been undertaken in 2006 to refine and improve Risk assessment the second line, operating a formal risk the Portfolio Classification process, designed to provide a more management framework within which the Group policies effective method of evaluating portfolio performance.
We are and minimum standards are set and objective oversight and continuing to improve oversight, and tools in support of it, in challenge of risk management across the Group is achieved.
this area to ensure that we remain in control of our insurance This includes the Board Risk Committee, supported by the business and the risks within it.
Group Risk functions, and a Group wide network of regional risk committees, Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 23 Claims development and reserving levels are closely monitored Credit, market and liquidity risks by Reserve Committees.
Each regions Reserve Committee The primary sources of credit risk within the Group are investment determines a recommended level of outstanding claims reserves, and treasury activities and reinsurance counterparty risk.
Within in accordance with the Group Reserving Policy.
The Group the investment management and treasury activities, a range Reserving Committee considers the reasonableness of these of bank counterparty concentration and credit quality limits, recommendations.
It then determines the level of aggregate together with other controls, are in place to ensure that exposure outstanding claims reserves to be carried by the Group.
is managed within the Group risk appetite.
New reinsurance cover is placed with reinsurers that are authorised as Approved Reinsurance risk Reinsurance Counterparties recommended by the Group The Groups reinsurance strategy and appetite are set and agreed Reinsurance Credit Committee under criteria approved by the by the Board Risk Committee and published and disseminated via Board Risk Committee.
the Group reinsurance policy statement.
The Group Reinsurance Credit Committee oversees the implementation of the Market risk arises from the Groups investment portfolios.
counterparty credit aspects of this strategy.
The Global Asset Management Committee is the management committee that oversees the Groups investment strategy under The reinsurance team monitors and controls reinsurance activity the oversight of the Investment Committee, and operating within throughout the Group, and has responsibility for the purchase of risk limits set by the Board Risk Committee.
the Groups worldwide programme of treaties.
Liquidity risk is considered to be a low risk category.
Group All major treaty purchases are analysed using various liquidity is managed by Group Treasury and each operation is sophisticated modelling tools to ensure that the level of cover required to maintain a minimum level of cash or cash equivalents purchased is capital efficient and aligned with Group risk appetite or highly liquid assets that can be liquidated within a maximum and strategy.
Contingency funding plans are prepared Operational risk and monitored to ensure that these minimum levels are met Operational risk exists in every facet of the organisation, including even in stress conditions.
those areas that are not viewed as operating units.
As such, all Regulatory risk areas of the Group and its major outsourcing providers, are The Group operates in a number of geographical locations with involved in addressing and controlling operational risk.
Internationally, the regulatory The Group uses a suite of risk tools to help manage operational environment has become more complex and demanding.
The risk using a common categorisation of risk.
These tools include Group continues to respond to these developments through its Risk and Control Self Assessments, Key Risk Indicators, Scenario arrangements for regulatory compliance and by ensuring that it Analyses, Incident Management and Loss Data.
maintains open and cooperative relationships with its regulators.
A series of forward looking key risk indicators are used to assess potential future trends in operational risks, whilst data collected on actual operational risk incidents and near misses captures past experiences.
In addition, the use of scenario analyses enables the Group to assess whether certain operational events that have occurred elsewhere could manifest themselves within the Group.
When taken together, the tools provide a complementary set of indicators of the Groups operational risk profile.
Royal & SunAlliance 24 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility at R&SA is about good business practice.
For us, this is about listening to and engaging with all of our stakeholders our customers, employees, shareholders and the community Our Business Principles provide detailed, practical guidance based on the customer service.
In the UK, following the successful on how we interact with our stakeholders, acting responsibly pilot of this model, we have now extended the service to all our as both a Company and as individuals.
These principles MORE TH N customers.
link to our Group policies and form part of our broader We are committed to resolving complaints promptly.
We continue risk and governance framework and together with our to participate in the annual benchmarking survey on complaints latest corporate responsibility report can be found at: handling by the Association of British Insurers.
performance was assessed as upper quartile across all categories.
Customers Employees We are committed to communicating openly with customers and Over the last few years we have been building a high providing strong levels of service, whether it is a new business performance culture across the business.
It means attracting, enquiry, renewal, claim or complaint.
developing and rewarding top talent, as well as giving people We use clear segmentation to develop products to meet our responsibility and accountability for their actions.
In 2006 we launched a wide range of products We focus on developing our people and have a number of with environmental or social benefits: programmes underway to provide ongoing career development: We were the first UK and Irish insurer to offer discounts for We launched our Technical Academy to ensure we remain at drivers of hybrid cars, the forefront of technical mastery in underwriting and claims, In Canada, we launched ClearSky, commercial wind energy and to provide clear career pathways for our technical people, insurance, and have already captured 20% of the market, Our Executive Development Programme, aimed at developing In the UK, we launched DriveTime, a product using satellite senior managers, is now into its third year.
It has been highly technology aimed at reducing accident rates and providing successful and 70% of graduates from the first two programmes more affordable insurance for young drivers.
are now in roles of greater responsibility, We are focused on ensuring our communication with customers We launched FastTrack, an accelerated scheme for high is clear and easy to understand.
During 2006, we completed a potential graduates.
The programme involves a six month full review of our UK policy documentation.
international assignment and development plan to fast track individuals to more senior roles.
We had 2,000 applicants We are dedicated to providing high standards of customer service and 16 have been selected to participate.
and continually look for ways to improve our claims and customer service.
In Canada, Johnson has been using personal customer In other areas, we have continued to increase the proportion managers for a number of years.
It has been highly successful of employees with performance related pay from 15% in 2003 and 92% of customers say that they would renew their policies to 90%.
Rapid response to emergencies Extreme weather conditions require an urgent response for customers.
When a tornado hit London in December our emergency response unit was ready.
As soon as the emergency services declared the area sufficiently safe, the R&SA engineers and loss adjustors were on site making essential repairs and claims assessments.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 25 We have also carried out our annual global employee survey.
Community Overall satisfaction improved 3% in 2006 and the results of the We operate an active community engagement programme survey are used to build clear action plans to address issues raised.
While regions focus on the issues that matter locally, there are some common issues such as safety Environment and social exclusion.
Environmental issues and climate change have received substantial public attention in 2006.
We have been taking As a leading motor insurer, we are committed to improving road action on these issues for some time.
In Chile, we launched a road safety education programme which has already reached 15,000 children with a As a Group: further 48,000 to take part in 2007.
In Sweden, weve donated We have set challenging targets for 2008 which will result in nearly 300,000 high visibility waistcoats and reflectors for children.
a positive effect on the environment as well as cost savings, Social exclusion is also an issue across many of the regions in We became the first UK insurer to go Carbon Neutral offsetting which we operate: our emissions against renewable energy projects, In the UK, we have provided social housing insurance for over We are managing the environmental impact of our buildings, 15 years.
This year our UK CEO, Bridget McIntyre, took up a such as moving to our new premises in Canada, built to high post on the Governments Social Exclusion Taskforce, standards of environmental construction and design.
In India, we continue to provide insurance in association with As an insurer, we are driving through a number of initiatives: Non Government Organisations for women and tribal groups in rural locations who are living below the poverty line, We continue to lobby in the UK for increased Government spending on flood defence, In Canada, we continue to support the United Way, a charity which funds a variety of social services such as childrens We are investing in award winning technology to predict and development and disadvantaged families.
assess risk such as, Eurotempest, Tropical Storm Risk and our flood risk assessment tool, Responsible investment Our UK assets continue to be managed by F&C Asset We make it more affordable for consumers to make environmental Management who apply their responsible engagement overlay choices through our products, such as discounted insurance for across our portfolios to encourage companies to manage social, hybrid cars, ethical and environmental risks.
We receive regular feedback on Through our partnership with the international charity Trees the companies that F&C Asset Management have invested in for Cities we support sustainable replanting in response to tree on our behalf.
removal as a result of subsidence claims.
Group impacts 2006 Energy Target CO Target Waste Target 2 Energy 124,976 Mwh UK 5% Canada 5% UK 10% CO 56,313 Tonnes Denmark 10% Ireland 10% Denmark 10% 2 3 Water 285,009 M Sweden 6% UK Travel 10% Waste 5,080 Tonnes Ireland 5% Recycling Target Paper 1,827 Tonnes Lithuania 5% Water Target Canada 10% Denmark Steam 10% UK 10% Hong Kong 20% Sweden Steam 5% Lithuania 5% All targets to be achieved by end of 2007 are based on the levels set out in the 2005 Corporate Responsibility Report.
All energy targets are electricity unless otherwise specified.
All targets are reductions, except recycling which is an increase in the rates.
Royal & SunAlliance 26 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Board of Directors John Napier Andy Haste George Culmer Noel Harwerth Edward Lea Malcolm Le May John Maxwell Simon Lee Bridget McIntyre N, I A, R, I E John Napier Age 64.
Director of the Group Edward Lea Age 65.
Director of the Group Bridget McIntyre Age 45.
UK Chief Executive from January 2003 and Chairman of the Group from July 2003.
Chairman of the Group Audit and director of the Group from November from March 2003.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee from October 2003.
Previously Executive Director of Norwich Committee from March 2003.
Non-executive Redbourn Group plc property management Union insurance.
Chairman of Kelda Group plc water utility.
Director of IDC Plugs Limited Former Executive Chairman and Chief Executive electrical services.
Director of MacIntyre Care Executive Team E, I of Kelda Group plc.
Former Chairman of Booker charity.
Previously a director of The British Andy Haste plc cash and carry.
Former Managing Director United Provident Association BUPA.
Group CEO of Hays plc business services from 1991 to R, I Malcolm Le May Age 49.
Director of the Mark Chambers 1998.
Former Managing Director of AGB plc Group from March 2004 and Chairman of General Counsel and Group Company international market research and information the Investment Committee from November Secretary services.
President Europe JER Partners Limited E, I George Culmer E, I Andy Haste Age 45.
Director and Group Europe property investment.
Non-executive Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive from April 2003.
Former Chief director of Pendragon plc.
Former Deputy Executive of AXA Sun Life plc and Director Chief Executive Morley Fund Management Orlagh Hunt of AXA UK plc life and pensions.
Former Deputy Group Human Resources Director President and Chief Executive Officer of CEO of ING-Barings finance.
Tony Latham Global Consumer Finance Europe at GE A, N, R, I John Maxwell Age 62.
Director of Group Director, Global Relationships Capital UK, Western Europe and Eastern the Group from July 2003.
Chairman of the E Europe financial services.
Former President Simon Lee Remuneration Committee from October 2003. of National Westminster Banks US Consumer Chief Executive, International Businesses Director of Provident Financial plc financial Credit Business retail banking.
Director of Homeserve plc support Neil Macmillan E, I George Culmer Age 44.
Governor of the Royal Ballet School.
Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance Officer and director of the Group from May Chairman of the Institute of Advanced E Bridget McIntyre 2004.
Previously Head of Capital Management Motorists.
Previously an Executive Director of UK Chief Executive Zurich Financial Services insurance.
Former Chairman of DX Services plc mail.
Previously Director General Paul Whittaker A, I Noel Harwerth Age 59.
Director of the Chief Executive Officer of The Automobile Chief Executive, Emerging Markets Group from March 2004.
Director of Corus Association Limited.
Group plc, Tube Lines Limited, Logica CMG, E Corporate Services Group plc, Anglo Irish Simon Lee Age 46.
Director of the Group Bank and Partnership Director, London from January 2007 having been Chief E Executive director Underground.
Deputy Chairman of Sumitomo Executive of the International Businesses since A Member of Group Audit Committee Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Limited April 2003.
Former Chief Executive, Natwest N Member of Nomination Committee finance.
Former Chief Operating Officer of Offshore and Head of US Retail Banking at R Member of Remuneration Committee Citibank International plc finance.
I Member of Investment Committee 28 Directors report 46 Summary consolidated statement 30 Corporate governance of recognised income and expenses 34 Remuneration report 46 Summary consolidated 40 Summary directors emoluments balance sheet and interests 47 Summary consolidated 44 Independent auditors statement cashflow statement to the members of Royal & Sun 48 Estimation techniques, uncertainties Alliance Insurance Group plc and contingencies 45 Summary consolidated 51 Shareholder information income statement 52 Financial calendar ibc Frequently asked questions Royal & SunAlliance 28 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Directors report The directors of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc present their The Group is committed to the promotion of equal opportunities for all annual review and summary financial statements of the Company for the employees including those with a disability.
In order to do this, we will year ended 31 December 2006. ensure that any reasonable adjustment is made, where it is appropriate to do so, to provide equal opportunities to all in the provision of recruitment, Principal activity terms and conditions, promotions, transfers, dismissals and vocational The Company is the holding company of the Royal & SunAlliance Group training.
We are committed, wherever possible, to supporting the of companies the Group whose principal activity is the transaction of rehabilitation and return to work of employees who become disabled personal and commercial general insurance business.
The Group operates during their career with us.
The Group is committed to fostering a constructive dialogue with Business review independent trade unions wherever they are recognised, ensuring An overview of the business performance during the year along with a regular and constructive dialogue on business issues, and early an analysis of its financial position is set out in the financial review on consultation on changes affecting the workforce.
In the UK, Amicus is pages 18 to 21.
The future developments of the business can be found formally recognised through a partnership agreement which covers in the Group CEOs business review on pages 6 to 9 and in the regional collective consultation and bargaining on behalf of non management business reviews on pages 12 to 17.
The principal risks and uncertainties employees.
The Management Association TMA represents managerial facing the Group are set out in the estimation techniques, uncertainties employees under a separate consultative agreement.
The European and contingencies on pages 48 to 50, and in the risk framework on Consultative Forum ECF, is a cross European body created to enable pages 22 to 23. information sharing and consultation on transnational issues with the The Group uses Key Performance Indicators KPIs to provide a well European workforce.
Since 2005, an amended constitution has been balanced and comprehensive review of the Groups overall performance.
in place for the European workforce which enables streamlined KPIs are monitored in a number of areas including financial, employee, consultation arrangements.
customer and the environment and community.
Financial KPIs include The Group continues to focus on the development of employees in combined operating ratio, expense ratio, operating result and net written order that they can deliver high levels of performance.
We believe we premium growth.
Employee KPIs include the percentage of staff that can create real competitive advantage by building and maintaining a have performance related pay, the percentage of staff taking part in the high performance culture across the Group.
In 2006, the focus has been employee survey and the increase in overall employee satisfaction as on developing talent and capability for todays business needs and those measured by the survey.
Customer KPIs include the levels of customer of the future.
We have continued to accelerate the development of our retention and the Groups position in the annual benchmarking survey in-house executive talent, through the Executive Development Programme on complaints handling by the Association of British Insurers.
Environment which enters its third year in 2007.
We have also introduced robust and community KPIs include the levels of CO emissions and in addition 2 strategies to build capability and performance in the areas of sales, the Group discloses the amount of the Groups charitable donations.
Financial KPIs are detailed in the Group CEO review on pages 6 to 9 and the regional business reviews on pages 12 to 17.
The employee, A Groupwide programme was introduced looking at sales effectiveness, customer and the environment and community KPIs are detailed in the with the aim of equipping our salesforce with the tools, skills, career regional business reviews on pages 12 to 17, the corporate responsibility pathways, training, reward and recognition that an effective salesforce report on pages 24 to 25 and the directors report on pages 28 to 29. would expect.
Post balance sheet events During 2006, we launched the Technical Academy, aimed at building On 4 March 2007 the Group announced the completion of the disposal on our technical mastery in underwriting, claims and actuarial to support of its US operation to Arrowpoint Capital Corp. the Groups growth objectives.
Dividends An accelerated career programme, FastTrack, was launched hiring The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.12p per share which, if 16 individuals who show potential to swiftly build capability to fulfil approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting AGM, leadership positions in the Group.
Typically, three or four years post will be due for payment on 1 June 2007 to holders of ordinary shares graduate, these individuals follow a structured career acceleration on the register at the close of business on 16 March 2007.
This, together programme involving a six month overseas assignment to help bring with the interim dividend of 1.75p per share, will make a total dividend for increased exposure to cultural and organisational differences.
The third annual web based Global Employee Survey was run in 2006.
The preferential dividend at the rate of 3.6875% for the period from 91% of eligible employees took the opportunity to contribute.
Our aim is 1 October 2006 to 31 March 2007, will be paid on 3 April 2007 to to consistently seek feedback on the environment we are creating as an holders of preference shares on the register at the close of business employer and to work constructively towards our objective of becoming on 16 March 2007. an employer of choice.
Our intention is to continue to repeat this survey annually, to ensure we have a current picture of employees views and Employment policy also to track year on year movement in particular areas of priority.
In The Groups employment policy reflects our belief that motivated and this way, by asking our employees, we measure how the culture of our skilled employees are critical to our success.
For example, in 2006 70% of staff felt that My job We encourage equal opportunities and diversity across the Group.
provides the opportunity to learn new skills and develop new talents, an This involves recruiting, engaging, retaining, rewarding and developing increase of 3% on 2005.
As in previous years, we have used the 2006 people solely on the grounds of ability to do the job, and establishing results to build a Groupwide action plan which requires every manager and promoting a working environment which is free from discrimination.
to identify and work on areas of particular importance to their team.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 29 Our policy is to encourage employee share ownership.
Employees from Directors indemnity the majority of our global businesses are encouraged to participate in Article 154 of the Companys Articles of Association provides, among the International Sharesave Plan which is an HM Revenue and Customs other things, that, insofar as permitted by law, every director shall be approved all employee sharesave scheme.
indemnified by the Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses or liabilities incurred in the execution and discharge of the directors duties, Employees are kept well informed of the overall performance and power or office.
On 12 July 2006, the Company, pursuant to the power conferred by The Group actively encourages employees to become involved in Article 154, executed deed polls for each of the then and all future supporting their local communities.
Further details are provided in executive and non-executive directors of the Company.
The indemnities the corporate responsibility section of this report on pages 24 to 25. granted under these deed polls constitute qualifying third party indemnity Environmental programme provisions as defined by Section 309B of the Companies Act 1985.
The Details of our environmental programme can be found on our website Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to provide this at www.
indemnity to its directors in order to ensure it attracts and retains high calibre directors through competitive terms of employment in line with Supplier payment policy the market.
It is the Companys policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions in advance with its suppliers and to make payment in accordance with those In addition, the Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover terms and conditions, provided that the supplier has complied with them.
in respect of legal action against its directors and officers.
In most cases, agreements for the supply of goods or services are made Related party transactions under standard terms of contract that lay down payment terms.
In the UK Related party transactions are set out in note 33 on page 102 of the full these are available on request from UK Procurement, Leadenhall Court, Annual Report and Accounts.
Charitable and political contributions The Companys outstanding indebtedness to trade creditors on The Company and its subsidiaries worldwide made charitable donations 31 December 2006 amounted to  to of 2,033,711 during the year.
The largest contribution of 317,866 13 days payment when averaged over the year.
was made towards purchasing reflectors and reflective waistcoats for Share capital children in Sweden to promote road safety.
The Group did not make any During the year, 6,804,499 ordinary shares of 27.5p each were issued donations to European Union EU political parties, nor to political parties in satisfaction of the exercise of employee share options for a total outside the EU during 2006, and it is not the Groups policy to do so.
consideration of 6m, and 45,604,849 ordinary shares of 27.5p each Annual General Meeting were issued under the Companys scrip dividend scheme for a total The AGM will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad consideration of 62m.
An authority from the shareholders for the Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Monday, 21 May 2007 Company to purchase up to 293,567,775 of its own ordinary shares at 11.00am.
representing 10% of its issued share capital as at 16 March 2006 remained in force at 31 December 2006.
Enclosed with this report is a letter from the Chairman to shareholders.
Attached to the letter is the Notice convening the meeting which will include Substantial share interests items of ordinary and special business that are explained in the letter.
As at 7 March 2007, Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Legal & General Group plc and Schroder Investment Auditors Management had declared an interest in ordinary shares of 27.5p So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information each in the Company representing 3.20%, 8.72%, 3.53% and 4.97% as defined in Section 234ZA 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of which respectively of the issued ordinary share capital, in accordance with the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Disclosure Rules and steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
himself or herself aware of, and to establish that the auditors are aware of, any relevant audit information.
Directors Members of the Board of Directors are listed on page 26.
David Paige Following an extensive review process earlier in the year, the directors resigned as a director on 31 December 2006 and Simon Lee was will propose at the 2007 AGM that Deloitte & Touche LLP be appointed appointed to the Board effective from 1 January 2007. as auditors of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2007.
 LLP will stand down to enable Deloitte & Touche At the 2007 AGM Simon Lee will be eligible for re-appointment under LLP to be appointed in their place.
Edward Lea, John Maxwell, Noel Harwerth, Malcolm Le May confirmed, as required by Section 394 of the Companies Act 1985, that and George Culmer will retire by rotation under Article 106 and, being there are no matters connected with their ceasing to hold office that they eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
consider should be brought to the attention of Royal & SunAlliances Directors interests are set out in the remuneration report on pages 40 to 43. shareholders or creditors.
By order of the Board Mark R Chambers General Counsel and Group Company Secretary 7 March 2007 Royal & SunAlliance 30 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Corporate governance Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The Group operates a Delegated Authority Policy which specifies how In respect of 2006, the Group is required to comply with the Principles executive authority is delegated from the Board to the Group CEO and on to and Provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code published in 2003 other executives in the Group.
Individual executive licences set out specific and to provide an explanation where it has not done so.
In June 2006, limits of authority in terms of entering into financial, underwriting and other a revised version of the Combined Code was published.
Each executive is responsible for ensuring a similar Group was not required to comply with this during 2006.
Additional process of delegation is in place within their area of responsibility.
disclosure in respect of how the Group already meets the requirements The Board met 11 times during 2006.
Further details on the attendance of the revised Code is provided below.
of directors at Board and Committee meetings are provided on page 33.
Throughout 2006, the Group has complied with the Principles and The Directors Provisions of the Combined Code except that the Group has not appointed The Board comprises five non-executive directors and four executive a senior independent director nor is there a majority of independent directors.
Details of the directors can be found on page 26.
David Paige directors on the Nomination Committee.
The non-executive directors resigned as a director on 31 December 2006 and Simon Lee was have a unanimous view that the appointment of a senior independent appointed as a director with effect from 1 January 2007. director is not appropriate at this time.
All non-executive directors are encouraged to communicate directly with executive directors outside In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the formal meetings and an active dialogue is maintained by the Board.
Combined Code, the directors submit themselves for re-appointment at Notwithstanding the composition of the Nomination Committee, all the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and for re-election non-executive directors are involved in any process for the appointment every three years thereafter.
Simon Lee will therefore be proposed for of an additional director.
re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and the directors retiring and proposed for re-election are George Culmer, The Board Noel Harwerth, Edward Lea, Malcolm Le May and John Maxwell.
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for organising and directing the affairs of the Company and the Group in a manner that is in the best When appointing new directors, regard is given to the size of the Board interests of the shareholders as a whole and is consistent with good corporate and the balance of executive and non-executive directors as well as the governance practices, and for ensuring that in carrying out its duties the skills and experience already represented by the existing Board members, Company and the Group meets legal and regulatory requirements.
The and those which would be desirable on the Board going forward.
The report Board is also responsible to the Financial Services Authority FSA for of the Nomination Committee, including a description of its duties, is set ensuring compliance with the Groups UK regulatory obligations.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it, At all times during the year, at least half of the Board, excluding the which can only be amended by the Board itself and which is reviewed Chairman, comprised non-executive directors.
Matters reserved to the Board include: have been determined by the Board to be independent.
The Chairman meets regularly with the non-executive directors both individually and Approval of the Groups long term objectives and commercial strategy, collectively without the executive directors being present.
The Chairman Approval of changes to the Groups senior management structure, met the independence criteria of the Combined Code on his appointment in 2003.
There have been no changes to his external commitments since Approval of the Groups overall risk appetite, then which might affect his responsibilities to the Group.
None of the Annual review of the effectiveness of internal control arrangements, executive directors serve on the board of another FTSE 100 company.
Approval of the annual operating and capital budgets, Directors have access to the services and advice of the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary and, in addition, may take independent Changes to the Groups capital structure, professional advice at the expense of the Company in furtherance of Approval of the Groups financial results and any significant changes their duties.
to accounting practices or policies.
Directors responsibilities The separate roles of the Chairman, John Napier, and the Group CEO, The directors are required to ensure that adequate accounting records Andy Haste, have been clearly defined in written role statements which are maintained so as to disclose at any time, and with reasonable accuracy, have been approved by the Board.
the financial position of the Group.
They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, liaising as necessary and detect fraud and other irregularities.
with the Group CEO on developments between Board meetings, ensuring that the Group CEO and his executive management team have appropriate They must present financial statements for each financial year, in objectives, and that their performance against those objectives are reviewed.
accordance with applicable law, accounting standards and regulations, The Group CEO is responsible to the Board for the executive management which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company of the Group, and for liaising with the Chairman and keeping him informed and Group and of the profit or loss and cashflows for that period.
The on all material matters.
directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 31 and have prepared financial statements for the Company in accordance reports from risk specialists both internal and external to the Group, and with IFRS.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial reviews Group level risk management information.
statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Each quarter there is a self certification process completed by business Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulations.
managers across the Group to confirm the adequacy of controls and In preparing such financial statements the directors are required to: their compliance with Company policies, laws, rules and regulations.
Select suitable accounting policies and apply them on a consistent The Board considers that collectively this reporting framework gives it basis using reasonable and prudent judgement, sufficient information upon which to monitor the systems of internal control and to review their effectiveness as required by the Combined State whether or not applicable accounting standards have been Code.
The Board therefore considers that there is an ongoing process followed and explain any material departures, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the State whether the Group financial statements have been prepared Group, that it has been in place for 2006 and up to the date of approval in accordance with IFRS, of the Annual Report & Accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board and that it accords with the Turnbull Guidance on the Combined Code.
Use the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so.
Further details on the overall risk framework is set out on pages 22 to 23.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Financial control framework In 2006, the Company voluntarily delisted from the New York Stock Professional development and training Exchange and terminated its ADR programme.
In January 2007, the On appointment, new directors are subject to a formal induction Company terminated its US SEC registration and its reporting obligations programme and receive training and guidance on their duties and to the SEC also ceased at that time.
As a result of the SEC deregistration, responsibilities.
Continuing professional development is offered to the Company is no longer required to be compliant with the US Sarbanes all directors which includes educational and business awareness Oxley Act 2002.
However, the elements of Sarbanes Oxley compliance presentations.
which have added value will be carried forward in the Groups financial Board effectiveness control framework.
In 2006, the Board undertook an annual evaluation of its performance to Corporate governance framework assess how well the Board, its committees and the directors are performing.
The Groups corporate governance framework describes and prescribes how The review included the use of a comprehensive questionnaire.
the Group is directed and managed by setting out the matters reserved Internal controls for the Board, the terms of reference of the Board and management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems committees, role statements, policies, systems, procedures and controls.
Implementation and maintenance of the Committees internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors Specific responsibilities of the Board have been delegated to the and senior management.
The performance of internal control systems Group Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Investment and Board Risk is reviewed regularly by the Group Audit Committee and the boards of Committees.
The role of the Investment, Board Risk, Group Audit subsidiary companies.
and Nomination Committees are set out below and the role of the The Board reviews annually the effectiveness of the Groups system of Remuneration Committee is set out in the remuneration report on pages internal controls in order to safeguard the Groups assets and shareholders 34 to 35.
Details of the Chairmen and membership of the Group Audit, investment.
This system includes governance, financial controls, the risk Nomination, Remuneration and Investment Committees are shown on management framework and operational, regulatory and compliance page 33 together with details of attendance at meetings.
The systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, The Investment Committee is chaired by Malcolm Le May, meets twice the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide a year and comprises all non-executive directors, Andy Haste and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial George Culmer.
The Committee assists the Board in setting the Groups misstatement or loss.
Following the review of the system of internal investment strategy and monitors the execution of that strategy and control, the Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary to the Groups investment performance.
rectify any significant failings or weaknesses identified as a result of the review have been, or are being taken.
The Board Risk Committee, which meets quarterly, was chaired during the year by David Paige who resigned from the Board on 31 December 2006.
The Board, through the Group Audit Committee, receives reports from the George Culmer has since assumed the role of Committee Chairman.
The Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance and his team on the integrity Committee comprises the Group CEO and the Chief Financial Officer and of the control environment and also receives reports from the external other members of executive management.
The Committee is authorised auditors based upon their audit work.
The Group Audit Committee also by the Board under its terms of reference to manage all risks faced by receives reports on the Groups arrangements for ensuring regulatory the Group.
The Board-approved Group risk appetite is set by reference compliance.
The Board, through the Board Risk Committee, considers Royal & SunAlliance 32 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Corporate governance continued to policies, control limits and other mechanisms.
The Committees External auditors principal duties include: The Committee meets regularly with internal and external auditors without management present.
The partner of the Groups external Defining the Groups risk appetite prior to approval by the Board, auditors, who is responsible for the external audit, attends meetings Approval of policy and minimum standards that are consistent with regularly.
Each year, the Committee considers the performance of the risk appetite, the external auditors prior to a resolution on their re-appointment and remuneration at the AGM.
Ensuring that risks that are outside the appetite are mitigated in an appropriate manner, During the year,  LLP were, on a number of occasions, engaged as advisors.
In order to maintain their independence, Overseeing and challenging the Groups risk management processes.
such appointments are only made in accordance with a protocol developed The role of the Group Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee by the Committee.
This gives guidance to businesses within the Group are set out below.
on the appropriateness of engaging the Groups external auditors as advisors and sets down the procedures to be followed to authorise Report of the Group Audit Committee such an engagement.
The Committee is satisfied that this protocol has Membership been followed and there are no matters that would compromise the The membership of the Committee and the attendance record of independence of the auditors or affect the performance of their statutory directors in 2006 are shown in the table on page 33.
 LLP have also considered their position is comprised of independent non-executive directors who have recent and have confirmed their independence to the Company in writing.
The Company has enjoyed a long standing and constructive relationship In 2006, the Committee met six times.
The Chairman, Group CEO, with its current auditor  LLP.
It is, however, our Chief Financial Officer, Director Regulatory Risk and Compliance and policy to periodically review major contracts.
Following an extensive the Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance are regular attendees.
review earlier in the year, the Board has accepted the Committees Other members of executive management are also invited to attend recommendation that  LLP stand down as from time to time.
The outcome of meetings are reported to the Board auditors of the Company and that a resolution be put to the 2007 AGM and the Board receives the minutes of all Committee meetings.
for the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as external auditors in Principal duties their place.
The Committees principal duties are as follows: Whistleblowing To coordinate and have oversight of the Groups financial reporting It is the Committees responsibility to keep the procedures laid out in the process, Group whistleblowing policy under review.
This policy deals with employees who wish to raise serious concerns in good faith, and either do not feel To monitor compliance, comfortable raising the matter with local management or are not satisfied To have oversight of internal and external audit functions, with the local management response.
They can raise their concerns with the Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance, who will either investigate To manage the systems of internal controls, or arrange for an investigation of the matter.
Employees are offered such To review all matters relating to the legal integrity of the Group, safeguards and support as may be necessary to protect their personal integrity and, where possible, identity.
To provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management.
Report of the Nomination Committee Membership The Group Audit Committee has unrestricted access to Company The membership of the Committee and the attendance record of directors documents and information, as well as to employees of the Company in 2006 are shown in the table on page 33.
The Committee met twice and the external auditors.
The terms of reference of the Group Audit Committee, which explain Principal duties its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board of Directors, are The Committees principal duties are to review the structure, size and available on the Companys website at www.
com or composition of the Board and to evaluate the directors skills, knowledge on request from the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
It has access to external recruitment consultants in order Internal audit to help fill any vacancies.
The Committee considers the leadership needs The Group has an internal audit function, whose activities and effectiveness and succession planning of the Board when making decisions on new are monitored and reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee is responsible appointments.
Resolutions to re-appoint directors at the AGM are not for ensuring that adequate access to information and resources is given proposed automatically, but are subject to the approval of the Board, to the Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance who is responsible for taking into account the recommendations of the Committee.
Internal Audit within the Group and for approving the appointment of The terms of reference of the Committee, which explains its role and the and removal of the holder from that position.
authority delegated to it by the directors, are available on the Companys website at www.
com or on request from the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 33 Board and board committee membership and attendance in 2006 Directors attending Board and board committee meetings during 2006 were: Board Group Audit Investment Nomination Remuneration Notes Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in the year 1 11 106228 George Culmer 11 10 1 Noel Harwerth 11 6 2 Andy Haste 11 10 1 Edward Lea 11 6 2 7 Malcolm Le May 10 2 7 John Maxwell 11 6227 Bridget McIntyre 10 John Napier 2 11 2 2 David Paige 11 Chairman of the Board or board committee Notes 1.
In addition to attendance as above, Andy Haste and other executive directors regularly attend, by invitation, meetings of the Group Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee.
John Napier attended one meeting of the Remuneration Committee by invitation.
Annual General Meeting The AGM Notice is despatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and contains separate resolutions on each substantive issue, including a resolution to adopt the Annual Report & Accounts.
All directors are requested to attend each AGM.
The Chairman and the chairmen of the Group Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees make themselves available to take questions from shareholders.
The Company has arrangements in place with its Registrars to ensure that all proxy votes received are accurately counted.
The results of proxies lodged on each resolution, including votes for, against and withheld, are published on the Groups website at www.
In accordance with best practice, these results are also announced to the London Stock Exchange.
Relations with shareholders The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and communication with shareholders.
Senior management meet principal institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
In addition, investor relations events are held during the year to increase shareholders understanding of the business.
Going concern The directors have satisfied themselves that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future, having given consideration to the uncertainties and contingencies disclosed in the financial statements, and have therefore prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.
By order of the Board Mark R Chambers General Counsel and Group Company Secretary 7 March 2007 Royal & SunAlliance 34 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Remuneration report The following report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other by the Board for submission to the shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions, and they have no conflict of interest arising from cross directorships.
Fees for serving as a  LLP have audited the following items stipulated committee member and chairing committees of the Board are described in law for their review: in the non-executive directors section of this report on page 39.
The table of shares held by directors, directors remuneration and Advisors to the Remuneration Committee associated footnotes on page 40 and the disclosure of the items In developing remuneration strategy during the year, the Committee comprising benefits in kind, obtained its principal advice from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, The tables of defined benefit and defined contribution pensions on who were appointed by the Committee and provided no other services page 42 and associated footnotes, to it during 2006.
The table of disclosure of directors share options and share awards The terms of engagement for the remuneration consultants are available on pages 40 to 42 and associated footnotes.
to shareholders on request and on our website at www.
In constitution and operation, the Committee complies fully with the Combined Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing The Group CEO is invited to attend all meetings of the Committee to Authority and as described in the corporate governance section of provide context and advice to the Committee on company strategy this report, on page 30. and performance and senior executive pay strategy.
The Group Human Resources Director normally attends meetings to provide information on The role of the Remuneration Committee wider remuneration strategy and practice within the Group.
The Chairman The Committee is a formal committee of the Board and is accountable to of the Board is invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
The General shareholders through its annual remuneration report which is voted on at the Counsel and Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the AGM, and remains committed to reflecting the best interests of shareholders Committee.
None of the non Committee attendees are present as of and to the pursuit of best practice in remuneration policy.
The Committee right, and do not attend when their own remuneration is discussed.
welcomes ongoing dialogue with shareholders on remuneration policy.
Activities of the Remuneration Committee The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference The continuing focus of the Committee is the maintenance of a strong which are available to shareholders on request and on our website at link between performance and reward.
It is the Committees view that the www.
These include: interests of shareholders are best served by ensuring a remuneration Determining the terms and conditions and remuneration of the structure which has a significant element of performance related pay, Chairman of the Board and the executive directors, and reinforces the culture of high performance and accountability that applies at all levels throughout the Group.
Overseeing the operation of the Companys share based long term incentive schemes, including approving the value and timing of The Committee meets as often as necessary throughout the year to awards and overseeing the operation of performance conditions, ensure that it is able to fully report to the Board and shareholders on all relevant matters.
In 2006, the Committee met eight times and the Consideration of, and advice to the Board on, the Groups broader principal business of those meetings included the following activities: remuneration policy in relation to senior executives reporting to the Group CEO the Executive Team.
The design and development of the 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan, the key features of which are described later in this report the Long The Committee presents a summary of its principal activities to Term Incentive Plan.
As well as discussions of the key features of the shareholders through this report, and the Committee Chairman attends Long Term Incentive Plan, the Chairman of the Committee engaged in the AGM to answer questions from shareholders on the activities of the consultation with major shareholders in order to attain the support of Committee and its remuneration policies.
shareholders at the 2006 AGM, Membership of the Remuneration Committee The determination of performance conditions, and approval of the During the year, the directors who served on the Committee were initial awards, under the Long Term Incentive Plan, John Maxwell Chairman, Edward Lea and Malcolm Le May.
All of the non-executive directors on the Committee were determined by the Conducting the annual review of base salaries for executive directors Board to be independent.
The attendance of members in 2006 is and the Group CEOs recommendations for his Executive Team, shown in the table on page 33.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 35 The consideration and approval of annual bonus payments for 2005, This structure will be replicated for other members of the Executive Team.
The review of actual performance of the executive directors in 2005 As an indication of the balance of remuneration, including long term against agreed goals and objectives, incentives LTIs, the following charts illustrate the remuneration attributable to the continuing executive directors over the year excluding allowances The review of proposed annual objectives and performance goals of and pension provision : executive directors for 2006, The ongoing review and monitoring of performance conditions and Andy Haste reports on performance for awards under the Share Matching Plan and various share option grants, The ongoing review of share incentives generally, including the approval of changes of an administrative or regulatory nature, Salary 26% The determination of termination arrangements for senior executives LTIs 42% Bonus 32% who left the Group in 2006, including those of David Paige, A review of the Committees terms of reference, George Culmer The drafting of the remuneration report for the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts.
Remuneration policy principles The Committees remuneration policy is consistent with the high Salary 28% performance culture across the Group.
The key principles which LTIs 42% underpin the remuneration policy are: Bonus 30% Total remuneration is set at a level which enables the recruitment, retention and motivation of high quality executive talent, Bridget McIntyre There is a strong and visible link between remuneration and performance, Executive remuneration and shareholder interests are strongly aligned.
This is reflected in the design of the Long Term Incentive Salary 34% Plan, which provides a co-investment opportunity, LTIs 33% Bonus 33% The observation of existing share ownership guidelines to further enhance the alignment of shareholder interests with those of For the purposes of the above charts, the bonus value is based on executive directors, the cash bonus received plus the fair value of the compulsory Deferred Incentive arrangements are leveraged so that only exceptional Shares.
The LTI value is based on the fair value of awards of Performance performance attracts the highest levels of award, Shares and half of the maximum potential number of Matching Shares that may vest subject to performance relating to voluntary and A balance of short and long term performance is used, incorporating compulsory Deferred Shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
measures of financial performance, delivery of shareholder value Details of how the fair values, referred to above, have been calculated and a robust assessment of personal contribution, are set out in note 27 on page 85 of the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Remuneration policy and practice is transparent to shareholders.
Base salary Elements of remuneration Policy: Base salary is set with reference to the median level for Remuneration for executive directors in 2007 will consist of the equivalent roles in similar companies.
four principal elements described below, of which only base salary is pensionable: Base salaries for executive directors and members of the Executive Base salary, Team are set on appointment with reference to market data.
The strong Annual performance bonus, performance culture within the Group means that it is essential that executive directors are of the highest calibre.
To enable the Group Share based long term incentive awards, to compete for the most talented executives, the Committee relates Pension provision and other benefits.
Royal & SunAlliance 36 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Remuneration report continued base salary levels to the median level for equivalent roles in similar The targets used for determining the amount of bonus payable are a companies facing similar levels of complexity and challenge in the combination of stretching business performance targets and the results UK and internationally.
In the UK, the comparator group most frequently of a structured assessment of each executives performance against used is a sample of financial service companies within the FTSE 100. detailed and specific personal objectives.
Base salaries are reviewed on the basis of market movements and an Financial targets are measured against Combined Operating Ratio COR assessment of the performance of the executive.
The 2006 salary review targets which are the preferred measures for Royal & SunAlliance process resulted in the following increases, effective from 1 April 2006, businesses.
COR is the single indicator which most fully captures the for the continuing executive directors as at 31 December 2006 : underlying strength and performance of an insurance business.
Position Increase Base salary Personal targets are reviewed and approved by the Committee early in Andy Haste CEO 4.5% 805,000 the financial year.
The Group CEOs performance is assessed annually George Culmer CFO 5% 442,000 by the Chairman of the Board and members of the Committee.
The Group Bridget McIntyre UK CEO 5% 367,500 CEO carries out a similar assessment for each of his direct reports, subject to review and sign off by the Committee in the case of executive directors.
Recognising that base salaries are now generally competitive, as in 2006, Assessments also take account of appropriate leadership style and each increases in 2007 are expected to be broadly in line with movements in executive receives a performance rating against the standard scale used boardroom pay.
at all levels in the business.
The following table sets out the base salaries of UK based executives Bonuses paid to executive directors in respect of the performance year below Board level on a banded basis as at 31 December 2006.
No such 2006 are included in the table of directors emoluments on page 40.
The executive received a base salary in excess of 350,000.
Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the bonus payments made in respect of 2006 reflect the consistently strong COR results across the Base salary range Number of employees Group throughout 2006, and the contribution made by each executive 250,001 and over 6 director.
200,001 250,000 3 150,001 200,000 28 UK based executives who are members of the global Top 100 group the Top 100 participate in a bonus plan which is structured in the same In relation to the increase in number of employees in the band way and measured using the same metrics as the plan described above.
150,001 200,000, from 2005, there are 12 employees who For outstanding performance, a cash bonus of up to 65% of base salary received pay rises sufficient for them to be included in the above chart.
and Deferred Shares worth up to 33% of the cash bonus are achievable.
There were also seven new employees throughout 2006 at this level Share based long term incentive awards bringing new capabilities to the Group.
Policy: To provide annual share awards to executives to ensure Annual performance bonus alignment with shareholder interests, solely through the Long Term Policy: Bonus payments are related to stretching performance Incentive Plan.
Except in exceptional circumstances, no other targets, and are capped at 133% of base salary.
For maximum discretionary share plan will be used to make awards.
bonuses to be achieved, outstanding performance must be demonstrated.
Prior to the approval of the Long Term Incentive Plan, two share incentive plans were operated: The executive directors and the Executive Team participate in an annual The 2004 Share Matching Plan, which was designed to operate for bonus plan.
If stretching targets are achieved, participants receive a cash two years.
The final awards under this plan were made in 2005, bonus of up to 50% of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up to 16.5% of base salary.
For outstanding performance, a cash bonus of The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS.
Regular awards under the up to 100% of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up to 33% of ESOS were discontinued from 2006, but the ESOS remains available for base salary are achievable.
Deferred Shares are described in the section use in exceptional circumstances, such as executive recruitment.
headed Share based long term incentive awards below.
Following shareholder approval at the 2006 AGM, the primary long term Executives are also offered the opportunity to voluntarily invest up to 33% incentive is the Long Term Incentive Plan, the key features of which and of the cash element of their bonus into Deferred Shares.
In 2006 under associated policies are summarised in the sections below.
the Long Term Incentive Plan, an award of Matching Shares was made on Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan will be funded through a a pro rata basis to the Deferred Shares.
Matching Shares may vest subject combination of new issues and shares purchased in the market.
to the performance conditions described on page 37 of this report.
The Committee reserves the right to reduce the permissible investment below this level.
However, the Long Term Incentive Plan will continue to operate on the same terms in 2007.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 37 Conditional awards of Performance Shares measured over a single period of three years with no provision to retest.
Participants may receive a conditional award of shares with the grant In 2007 as in 2006, grants of Performance Shares and Matching level and performance condition determined by the Committee prior to Shares related to non voluntarily Deferred Shares will be subject to a each grant.
Executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the performance condition consisting of a combination of Return on Equity Top 100 will be eligible for awards of Performance Shares.
ROE and Total Shareholder Return TSR targets.
These are set out below: It is intended that, in 2007, awards of Performance Shares to executive 50% of the shares comprising the award will vest according to ROE directors will be limited to a maximum face value of 100% of base salary, performance.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years other than in exceptional circumstances.
Awards of Performance Shares commencing with the financial year of grant is below 10%, no part of the to members of the Executive Team in 2007 will be limited to a maximum award subject to the ROE performance condition will vest.
If underlying face value of 80% of base salary, other than in exceptional circumstances.
average annual ROE over three years is 10%, 25% of the award will Account will be taken of personal performance in determining the scale of vest.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years is 16%, 100% the award to each executive.
For executives below this level, distribution of the award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight line basis in between.
policy will normally be based on a formula which relates the size of award to Underlying ROE will exclude items of an exceptional nature which in the performance and potential, as measured through the annual performance view of the Committee do not reflect the underlying performance of appraisal process.
the business, In any year, the face value of Performance Shares granted to any individual 50% of the shares comprising the award will vest according to TSR will be limited to 150% of base salary in normal circumstances, subject to performance against a comparator group of UK and International an overriding cap of 250% of base salary in exceptional circumstances, Financial Services companies.
Below median performance, no part such as an executive recruitment.
of the award subject to the TSR performance condition will vest.
At median performance, 25% of the award will vest.
At upper quintile Performance Shares will vest after three years subject to the top 20%, 100% of the award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight performance condition see below and provided the individual remains line basis in between, in employment with the Group other than in exceptional circumstances such as death or retirement at normal retirement age.
Additionally, before any shares subject to the TSR condition vests, the Committee must be satisfied that the Companys TSR performance is Deferred Shares reflective of underlying financial performance.
As described in the annual performance bonus section on page 36, executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top 100 The comparator group will consist of the following companies: may be granted Deferred Shares as part of the annual bonus.
These Comparator companies Deferred Shares may not be withdrawn and will normally vest three years Aegon AGF from the date of grant subject to continued employment with the Group.
Alleanza Allianz In addition, executives may invest an additional portion of bonus in Aviva Baloise Deferred Shares on a voluntary basis.
Voluntary Deferred Shares are Fortis Generali not at risk of forfeiture and may be withdrawn at any time but the right Legal & General Munich Re to Matching Shares would lapse on those Deferred Shares withdrawn.
QBE Swiss Re Zurich Financial Services Conditional awards of Matching Shares Executives may receive a conditional award of Matching Shares pro rata The Companys TSR will be independently calculated and verified by to the number of Deferred Shares held.
The maximum matching ratio for the Committee for the purposes of awards made under the Long Term Matching Shares:Deferred Shares will be 2.5:1, calculated on the gross Incentive Plan.
value of the bonus invested in Deferred Shares.
At threshold performance the matching ratio will be 0.625:1.
Details of the performance condition The vesting of Matching Shares related to voluntarily Deferred Shares used for the first grant are described below.
Following a review, the will be determined solely by the ROE performance condition.
Committee resolved to use the same performance conditions in relation ROE has been selected as the measure of financial performance as it is to awards proposed in 2007. one of the key measures of overall business performance and is visible Executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top 100 externally to shareholders.
will be eligible for awards of Matching Shares.
The TSR performance condition has been designed to provide alignment Matching Shares will vest after three years subject to the performance between executive remuneration and shareholder interests and to ensure condition see below and provided the individual remains in employment that an element of the package is linked directly to share price performance.
with the Group other than in exceptional circumstances such as death or The comparator group has been selected to ensure that performance retirement at normal retirement age.
is compared fairly against a group of similar companies operating in a similar competitive environment.
The use of ROE and TSR in combination, Performance conditions provides a balanced approach to the measurement of Company The Committee will determine the performance condition for each performance over the longer term.
grant of Performance Shares and Matching Shares, with performance Royal & SunAlliance 38 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Remuneration report continued Dilution Until 31 December 2005, George Culmer participated in a contributory Dilution levels for all schemes are held strictly within limits set by the defined contribution occupational pension scheme the Royal & SunAlliance Association of British Insurers ABI 10% over 10 years for all schemes UK Pension Scheme 2002.
From 1 January 2006, this scheme was replaced and 5% for discretionary schemes.
The dilution levels compared to ABI by the Royal & SunAlliance Stakeholder Pension Plan the Stakeholder limits as at 31 December 2006 was: Plan, a contributory defined contribution stakeholder pension scheme.
George Culmer became a member of the Stakeholder Plan from 1 January ABI limit Royal & SunAlliance dilution 2006.
In 2007, he will receive employer contributions worth 15% of base 10% over 10 years for all share schemes 5.83% salary, subject to an employee contribution of 5% of base salary up to the 5% over 10 years for discretionary schemes 3.63% HM Revenue and Customs annual allowance as applicable.
Additionally, following a review of the market competitiveness of his pension benefits, Share ownership guidelines the Committee decided to provide George Culmer with a taxable cash Strengthened share ownership guidelines were introduced in 2004 for allowance of 15% of base salary, in order to bring his overall pension executive directors and members of the Executive Team.
provision closer to the market median.
The Group CEO is required to build and maintain a minimum shareholding Bridget McIntyre was enrolled in the Stakeholder Plan as from 1 January in the Company equivalent to 150% of base salary.
As in 2006, in 2007 she will receive employer contributions worth directors have a target of 100% of base salary and other members of the 15% of base salary, subject to an employee contribution of 5% of base Executive Team have a target of 50% of base salary.
In order to ensure salary up to the HM Revenue and Customs annual allowance as applicable.
that progress is made towards this target, executives are required to Due to Bridget McIntyre not being able to join the Royal & SunAlliance UK retain shares to a value of 50% of the net of tax gain under all executive Pension Scheme 2002, further employer contributions of 15% of base schemes until the relevant guideline is attained.
This requirement will salary, and employee contributions of 5% of base salary were paid during apply to awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan, and will continue the year to cover the period from 1 November 2005 to 31 December to apply to awards under all existing long term incentive plans.
Additionally, Bridget McIntyre receives a taxable cash allowance of 15% of base salary, in order to bring her overall pension provision closer The following table shows the number of shares including voluntary to the market median.
Deferred Shares held under the Long Term Incentive Plan held by each continuing executive director at 31 December 2006 and the increase David Paige elected not to join a Royal & SunAlliance pension plan in shareholding over the year.
on appointment and received a taxable cash allowance of 17.5% of Shares held Increase % salary base salary.
Andy Haste 804,705 21% 152% In addition, the executive directors participate in a number of benefits George Culmer 160,565 59% 55% available to other senior managers, including life assurance at the rate Bridget McIntyre 31,337 n a 13% of four times base salary together with a spouse dependant annuity, Assuming share price of 152.50p the closing middle market price on the last dealing sickness and ill health early retirement benefits and private medical day of the year.
They also have a choice between a company car and a All of Bridget McIntyres shares were acquired during the year.
In common with other employees, the executive directors are eligible to participate in the Royal & SunAlliance Pension provision and other benefits International Sharesave Plan SAYE.
Policy: Reasonable provision, in line with arrangements made in Service contracts similar companies, will be made to allow executives to plan effectively The Committees policy on service contracts is that they should be for their retirement, but the Committee will not compensate subject to a maximum notice period of one year.
Generally, in the event executives affected by new tax limits effective 6 April 2006. of termination, and in all cases of termination on performance grounds, the Committees policy would be to seek and apply mitigation.
Andy Haste is a member of the SAL Pension Scheme SAL, a contributory Andy Hastes service contract commenced on 2 April 2003 and he defined benefit occupational pension scheme.
In common with all other was appointed as a director of the Group on the same date.
His contract members of the Royal & SunAlliance defined benefit occupational pension expires under normal circumstances in January 2024 unless terminated schemes, from 1 January 2006 Andy Hastes future benefits within SAL earlier by the Company or by Andy Haste on 12 months notice.
will accrue on a career average revalued earnings basis rather than on a final salary basis.
The Group has decided to retain a cap within its defined George Culmers service contract commenced on 1 May 2004 and benefits after A Day and, accordingly, Andy Hastes benefit accrual will he was appointed as a director of the Group on the same date.
Bridget continue to be calculated by reference to a capped salary which will be McIntyres service contract commenced on 1 November 2005 and measured each year in line with past practice.
In addition to his benefits she was appointed as a director of the Group on 2 November 2005. within SAL, Andy Haste receives an age related taxable cash allowance The service contracts for George Culmer and Bridget McIntyre terminate to enable him to make his own provision for retirement above the cap.
In under normal circumstances in October 2024 and July 2023 respectively 2007, he will be paid an allowance of 27% of base salary for this purpose.
unless terminated earlier by the Company or by the individual on 12 months notice.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 39 David Paiges service contract commenced on 1 February 2005 and The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration of the he was appointed as a director of the Group on 16 February 2005.
The fee payable to John Napier in respect of his His service contract was due to expire in July 2013, and was subject to appointment as Chairman of the Board effective 17 March 2003 was a notice period of 12 months.
Following the reorganisation of the Group increased effective 1 January 2006 from 250,000 to 325,000pa in Risk function, David Paige stood down from the Board and left the Group order to reflect market movements and the complexity and challenge effective 31 December 2006.
He received his usual remuneration of the role.
John Napiers letter of appointment was effective 9 January including participation in the 2006 annual performance bonus up 2003 and the term of his appointment was initially three years: it has to 31 December 2006 and no compensation for loss of office.
David now been extended until 31 December 2008.
No further review of John Paige was not a member of any Group pension plan and there was no Napiers fees is anticipated during the current term of his appointment.
additional cost to the Group.
The appointment may be terminated by John Napier giving three months notice to the Company.
External directorships Where appropriate, the Group encourages directors and other senior Edward Lea and John Maxwell have letters of appointment effective managers to accept, subject to the approval of the Chairman of the Board from 10 July 2003: Noel Harwerth and Malcolm Le May have letters of and the Group CEO, an invitation to join the Board of another company in appointment effective from 30 March 2004.
These letters of appointment a non-executive capacity, recognising the value of such wider experience.
all request one months notice should the non-executive director wish In these circumstances, they are permitted to retain the remuneration to resign.
All non-executive directors including the Chairman are subject from the non-executive appointment.
For executive directors and other to a three year rolling period of appointment in accordance with the members of the Executive Team, external appointments are limited to one Companys Articles of Association.
although at present none of the executive directors hold non-executive Historical TSR performance positions in other companies.
The main graph below is included in the report of the Committee as a Non-executive directors requirement of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
All non-executive directors of the Company have letters of appointment The graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the FTSE World which set out the terms and conditions of their appointment.
Non-executive Europe Insurance Index and the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE World Europe directors are not entitled to bonus payments or pension arrangements, Insurance Index comprises the range of European insurance businesses nor do they participate in the Groups long term incentive plans.
which most closely match our competitor group, and the TSR comparator Under the Companys Articles of Association, the remuneration paid to group selected for 2006 awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The non-executive directors is determined by the Board, within limits set by FTSE 100 Index comprises the 100 most highly capitalised companies, shareholders.
The basic fee for a non-executive director is 45,000pa.
representing approximately 80% of the UK market.
TSR performance The additional fee for chairing the Group Audit Committee is 20,000pa relative to the indices is shown over the five years from 31 December 2001 and the additional fee for chairing the Remuneration Committee and the to 31 December 2006.
Investment Committee is 12,500pa for each committee.
Additionally, The inset graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the same a fee of 5,000pa is paid to any non-executive director sitting on more index over the 24 month period ending 31 December 2006. than one committee but not acting as chair of any committee.
These fee rates will be unchanged for 2007.
TSR reflects the change in value of ordinary shares in a company over time, as represented by the evolution of a notional initial investment of 100 in the shares and including any distribution of dividends.
Total shareholder return for Royal & SunAlliance, FTSE World Europe Insurance Index and FTSE 100 Index 150 Performance over the 24 months to 31 December 2006 220 12 0 190 90 160 60 13 0 100 30 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2004 2005 2006 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Royal & SunAlliance FTSE World Europe Insurance Index FTSE 100 Royal & SunAlliance 40 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Summary directors emoluments and interests Directors emoluments audited part Remuneration for the year ended 31 December was as follows: Shares held at Shares held at Base salary Allowances Total Total 31 December 1 January and fees and benefits Bonuses 2006 2005 Notes 2006 2006 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors 1 George Culmer 2, 6, 8 105,138 100,819 437 97 381 915 849 Andy Haste 3, 6, 8 691,274 666,076 796 264 774 1,834 1,754 Bridget McIntyre 4, 6, 8 14,937 363 71 360 794 536 Non-executive directors Noel Harwerth 7 34,000 50 50 50 Edward Lea 302,003 241,128 65 65 65 Malcolm Le May 58 58 58 John Maxwell 261,011 252,044 58 58 58 John Napier 300,945 290,605 325 325 250 Directors who left during 2006 David Paige resigned 31 December 2006 5, 6 31,167 31,167 348 82 284 714 917 Notes: 1.
2006 bonuses were calculated as described in the remuneration report on page 36.
In 2006 a maximum cash bonus of 100% of salary was achievable.
George Culmer received an annual performance bonus of 380,562 in respect of performance year 2006.
His allowances include 15% of base salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2006 the amount paid was 65,000.
He also received car benefits worth 28,000 and medical and life assurance benefits worth 4,000.
Andy Haste received an annual performance bonus of 773,847 in respect of performance year 2006.
His allowances include an age related percentage of base salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2006 the allowance was 27% and the amount paid was 215,000.
He also received car benefits worth 41,000 and medical and life assurance benefits worth 8,000.
Bridget McIntyre received an annual performance bonus of 360,150 in respect of performance year 2006.
Her allowances include 15% of base salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2006 the amount paid was 54,000.
She also received car benefits worth 14,000 and medical and life assurance benefits worth 3,000.
David Paige resigned as director on 31 December 2006.
He received an annual performance bonus of 284,012 in respect of performance year 2006.
His allowances also included 17.5% of base salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2006, the amount paid was 61,000.
He also received car benefits worth 14,000 and medical and life assurance benefits worth 7,000.
He received no compensation for loss of office.
In addition to the interests shown above, the directors indicated, in common with other employees, had a beneficial interest as at 31 December 2006 in 4,938,894 2005: 4,938,894 ordinary shares of 27.5p each held in the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No 2.
Noel Harwerths shares were held in the form of 6,800 American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
One ADR represented five ordinary shares.
The shares were disposed of as part of the compulsory sale process of ADRs.
The ADR programme was terminated on 30 October 2006.
The directors had a beneficial interest as at 31 December 2006 in the voluntary Deferred Shares of 27.5p each held under the Long Term Incentive Plan which are not included in the above table.
On 7 March 2006, the directors interests remained unchanged.
Options granted following the AGM in May 2003 are potentially exercisable if, at the end of the period of three business years starting with the business year in which the options were granted, the Group has achieved a Return on Capital ROC of at least 6% per annum after inflation and excluding items of an exceptional nature which in the view of the Committee do not reflect the underlying performance of the business when averaged over the period.
One retest is allowed at the end of the fourth business year, but if the performance criterion has not been met over the full four year period, the options lapse.
Options granted between September 1998 and May 2003 are also subject to a performance condition that the Group must achieve a ROC of at least 6% when averaged over a consecutive three year period, but if the measure is not satisfied at the end of the third business year following the date of grant, the test can be repeated on an annual basis over the 10 year life of the option.
Options granted between April1997 and September 1998 were subject to a different performance condition linked to TSR.
For options to be eligible for exercise, the Groups TSR has to be at or above the median of companies in the FTSE 100 Index over a consecutive period of three years, between the year of grant and the completion of the 10 year life of the option.
The test is conducted twice per year, at the end of March and September, by independent external specialists.
None of the terms or conditions of any of the existing options over shares of the Group were varied during the year.
Full details of all directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares are recorded in the Groups Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The official closing middle market price at its highest during the year was 154.75p per share and at its lowest was 118.25p per share: on the last dealing day of the year it was 152.50p per share.
On 13 September 2006, SAYE options were granted at an exercise price of 106.0p.
All of the above options were granted for nil consideration.
Long term incentive schemes audited part Long term incentive scheme interests held during 2006 in respect of the ordinary shares of the Company are as follows: Share Matching Plan Share awards Share awards held at Share awards Share awards Share awards held at 1 January granted during vested during lapsed during 31 December Dates by which qualifying Notes 2006 the year the year the year 2006 conditions must be fulfilled George Culmer 1,3 Deferred Share awards 128,938 128,938 08.04.08 Matching Share awards 386,814 386,814 08.04.08 Andy Haste 1,3 Deferred Share awards 462,182 197,046 265,136 14.06.07 08.04.08 4 Matching Share awards 1,386,546 221,873 369,265 795,408 14.06.07 08.04.08 Bridget McIntyre 1,2 Deferred Share awards 150,000 150,000 01.11.08 Matching Share awards 450,000 450,000 01.11.08 David Paige resigned 1,3 Deferred Share awards 65,100 65,100 08.04.08 31 December 2006 Matching Share awards 195,300 195,300 08.04.08 Notes: 1.
The market price of ordinary shares on 14 June 2004, 8 June 2005 and 1 November 2005, the dates on which the above long term incentive scheme interests were granted, was 79.25p, 77.62p and 100p respectively.
Bridget McIntyres award of Deferred and Matching shares was approved prior to her appointment on 1 November 2005.
Due to dealing restrictions in accordance with the Model Code, these awards could not be granted until 12 June 2006.
The number of shares was calculated with reference to the share price on 1 November 2005.
Subject to performance as described below, these awards may vest on the third anniversary of her appointment.
In all other respects these awards are subject to the same rules as other awards granted in 2005.
Matching Share awards are capable of vesting in respect of a maximum of three times the number of Deferred Shares awarded, subject to the achievement of TSR targets over a single two year period.
TSR performance is measured relative to other companies specified by the Remuneration Committee.
For awards granted in 2004 and 2005, TSR will be measured partly relative to FTSE 100 companies and partly relative to the following financial services comparator group companies: Aegon, Legal & General Group, Allianz Group, Old Mutual, AXA, Prudential, Aviva, RAS, Generali and Zurich Financial Services Group.
For 50% of the Matching Share awards, where TSR is measured against the FTSE 100, full vesting will only occur at upper decile performance, vesting will occur in the ratio of shares under Matching Share awards to shares under Deferred Share awards of 2:1 at upper quartile performance and vesting in the ratio 1:1 will occur at median performance.
For the other 50% of the Matching Share awards, where TSR is measured against the financial services comparator group, full vesting will occur if TSR is highest in the comparator group, vesting in the ratio 2:1 will occur at upper quartile performance and vesting in the ratio 1:1 will occur at median performance.
Matching Share awards will not vest at below median performance.
For awards granted in 2004, the targets were measured over the period from 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2006.
For awards granted in 2005, the targets will be measured over the period from 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2007.
The relevant TSR figures will be averaged over the three months before the beginning and end of this performance period.
Additionally, no Matching Shares will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying performance of the Company over the performance period.
The performance condition attaching to the Matching Share awards granted in 2004 was met to the extent that 1.126 Matching Shares vested for each Deferred Share.
The maximum number of Matching Shares has been adjusted accordingly.
The number of Matching Shares shown in respect of Andy Haste have been adjusted from a maximum award of 591,138 to an actual award of 221,873 in relation to awards made in 2004.
Royal & SunAlliance 42 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Summary directors emoluments and interests continued Long term incentive plan Share awards Share awards Date by which held at Share awards held at qualifying 1 January granted during 31 December conditions Notes 2006 the year 2006 must be fulfilled George Culmer 1, 2 Deferred Shares 149,098 149,098 12.06.09 3 Matching Shares 469,036 469,036 12.06.09 4 Performance Shares 347,347 347,347 12.06.09 Andy Haste 1, 2 Deferred Shares 305,129 305,129 12.06.09 3 Matching Shares 959,884 959,884 12.06.09 4 Performance Shares 632,612 632,612 12.06.09 Bridget Mcintyre 1, 2 Deferred Shares 44,116 44,116 12.06.09 3 Matching Shares 138,781 138,781 12.06.09 4 Performance Shares 288,801 288,801 12.06.09 Notes: 1.
The market price of ordinary shares on 12 June 2006, the date on which the above long term incentive scheme interests were granted, was 123.35p.
Deferred Shares are inclusive of voluntary Deferred Shares and compulsory Deferred Shares.
Voluntary Deferred Shares are purchased by Hill Samuel Trustees on behalf of each participant using part of the net annual bonus paid to them and are held in trust for three years.
These Deferred Shares are not at risk of forfeiture and may be withdrawn from the trust at any time, but the related Matching Share awards would lapse if the voluntary Deferred Shares are withdrawn within three years of acquisition.
Compulsory Deferred Shares are awarded as part of the annual bonus and are also held in trust and deferred for three years.
These Deferred Shares may not be withdrawn and will normally vest in three years from the date of grant subject to continuous employment with the Group.
Matching Shares are capable of vesting in respect of a maximum of 2.5 times the number of Deferred Shares awarded, subject to the achievement of performance conditions over a three year period.
One half of the Matching Shares relating to compulsory Deferred Shares and all of the Matching Shares relating to voluntary Deferred Shares are subject to TSR performance relative to other companies specified by the Remuneration Committee.
For awards granted in 2006 TSR will be measured relative to the following comparator group companies: Aegon, AGF, Alleanza, Allianz, Aviva, Baloise, Fortis, Generali, Legal & General, Munich Re, QBE, Swiss Re, and Zurich Financial Services.
Full vesting will only occur at upper quintile performance: at median performance 25% of the Matching Shares will vest.
The remaining half of the Matching Shares relating to compulsory Deferred Shares are subject to a ROE performance condition.
If underlying ROE over three years commencing on the year of grant is below 10%, no part of the award subject to ROE performance will vest.
If underlying ROE over three years is 10%, 25% of the award will vest.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years is 16% or higher, 100% of the award will vest.
For the purpose of establishing the number of Matching Shares relating to voluntary Deferred Shares that may be awarded, the gross value of that part of the annual bonus payment that a participant elects to voluntarily defer is used.
Performance conditions relating to awards of Performance Shares are the same as those relating to compulsory Deferred Shares as described above.
One half of an award of Performance Shares may vest subject to the TSR performance condition and one half may vest subject to the ROE performance condition.
No other directors of the Company held long term incentive scheme interests during 2006.
Pension benefits audited part Non-executive directors are not entitled to any pension benefits.
The pension benefits earned by the executive directors, as members of Group defined benefit schemes, were as follows: Transfer value Transfer value Difference in Total accrued of total accrued of total accrued transfer values Change in pension at pension at pension at less members accrued pension 31 December 31 December 31 December contribution in year 2006 2006 2005 note 1 Andy Haste 1,928 6,768 68,403 48,225 14,786 Notes: 1.
The difference in transfer values reflects the difference between the two transfer values calculated using relevant information on the respective dates and is not necessarily the actuarial increase of the underlying pension.
The figures set out in the table above provide information as required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Listing Rules require the change in accrued pension to be shown excluding the effects of inflation and the transfer value of this increase.
These figures are shown in the notes below.
The accrued pension figures shown are the annual amounts of the members pension payable from normal retirement age.
Increases to pensions when in payment are applied in accordance with the relevant scheme rules.
On the death of the member leaving a surviving spouse and or children, spouses and or childrens pensions are payable in accordance with scheme rules.
The benefits shown above in respect of Andy Haste relate to his membership of a defined benefit pension scheme up to the earnings cap.
For Andy Haste the increase in his accrued pension during the year, excluding the effects of inflation, was 1,797 and the transfer value in respect of this less his contributions was 14,185 at 31 December 2006.
Andy Haste is required to contribute to the scheme and also has the option of paying Additional Voluntary Contributions AVCs.
Neither voluntary contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the table.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the guidance note GN11 published by the UK Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
The transfer value of the accrued benefits represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of Andy Hastes pension benefits.
The transfer values do not represent sums payable or due to Andy Haste.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 43 The Company contributions paid in respect of executive directors who are members of Group defined contribution schemes, were as follows: Company Company contributions contributions paid in 2006 paid in 2005 George Culmer 65,504 61,500 Bridget McIntyre 63,219 n a Bridget McIntyre joined the Group in November 2005.
Because of changes being made to the Groups pension arrangements, no contributions were paid into the Royal & SunAlliance UK Pension Scheme 2002 in respect of November and December 2005.
These contributions were paid into the Royal & SunAlliance Stakeholder Pension Plan which was set up on 1 January 2006 and totalled 8,750.
David Paige was not a member of any Royal & SunAlliance pension scheme.
John Maxwell Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board 7 March 2007 Royal & SunAlliance 44 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Independent auditors statement to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc We have examined the Summary Financial Statements of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc which comprise the summary consolidated income statement, the summary consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the summary consolidated balance sheet, the summary consolidated cashflow statement, estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies, and the information in the remuneration report and the summary directors emoluments and interests that are described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statements within the Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements with the full annual financial statements, the directors report and the remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statements.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports on the Companys full financial statements describe the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements and the remuneration report.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statements are consistent with the full annual financial statements, the directors report and the remuneration report of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 7 March 2007 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 45 Summary consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2006 Restated 2006 2005 m m Continuing operations Income Gross written premiums 6,264 6,237 Less: reinsurance premiums 780 937 Net written premiums 5,484 5,300 Change in the gross provision for unearned premiums 108 40 Less: change in provision for unearned premiums, reinsurers share 84 21 Change in provision for unearned premiums 192 61 Net earned premiums 5,292 5,239 Net investment return 600 668 Other operating income 121 99 Total income 6,013 6,006 Expenses Gross claims incurred 3,758 4,103 Less: claims recoveries from reinsurers 305 714 Net claims and benefits 3,453 3,389 Underwriting and policy acquisition costs 1,626 1,649 Benefit from change of pension scheme design 180 1,626 1,469 Unwind of discount 42 39 Other operating expenses 151 176 Total expenses 5,272 5,073 Results of operating activities 741 933 Finance costs 92 107 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries 1 65 Net share of profit after tax of associates 1 3 Profit before tax on continuing operations 649 894 Income tax expense 170 259 Profit for the year from continuing operations 479 635 Discontinued operations Loss for the year from discontinued operations 499 30 Loss profit for the year 20 605 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 52 555 Minority interests 32 50 20 605 Earnings per share for profit from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders of the Parent Company Basic 15.0p 19.9p Diluted 14.8p 19.7p Earnings per share for loss profit attributable to the equity holders of the Parent Company Basic 2.1 p 18.9p Diluted 2.1 p 18.7p Ordinary dividends paid and proposed for the year Interim dividend paid per share 1.75p 1.69p Final dividend proposed per share 4.12p 3.05p The total emoluments of the directors were 4,813k 2005: 4,537k.
Royal & SunAlliance 46 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Summary consolidated statement of recognised income and expenses for the year ended 31 December 2006 Restated 2006 2005 m m Exchange losses gains net of tax 151 62 Fair value gains losses net of tax 32 35 Pension fund actuarial gains losses net of tax 153 53 Tax on reclassification to loan capital 24 Net gains losses recognised in equity 34 2 Loss profit for the year 20 605 Total recognised income for the year 14 603 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 10 564 Minority interests 24 39 14 603 Summary consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2006 Restated 2006 2005 m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 552 450 Property and equipment 385 410 Investment property 454 435 Investments in associates 27 29 Financial assets 10,457 13,533 Total investments 10,938 13,997 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 1,927 4,406 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 2,225 2,547 Deferred acquisition costs 453 465 Current tax assets 17 40 Deferred tax assets 29 57 Other debtors and other assets 806 596 852 693 Cash and cash equivalents 1,831 1,617 19,163 24,585 Assets of discontinued operations 3,485 36 Total assets 22,648 24,621 Equity, reserves and liabilities Equity and reserves Shareholders equity 2,561 2,686 Minority interests 331 391 Total equity and reserves 2,892 3,077 Liabilities Loan capital 1,192 1,152 Insurance contract liabilities 12,790 17,204 Insurance and reinsurance liabilities 391 475 Borrowings 8 251 Current tax liabilities 56 55 Deferred tax liabilities 319 236 Provisions 380 693 Other liabilities 1,026 1,478 Provisions and other liabilities 1,781 2,462 16,162 21,544 Liabilities of discontinued operations 3,594 Total liabilities 19,756 21,544 Total equity, reserves and liabilities 22,648 24,621 The summary financial statements were approved on 7 March 2007 by the Board of Directors and are signed on its behalf by: George Culmer Chief Financial Officer Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 47 Summary consolidated cashflow statement for the year ended 31 December 2006 Restated 2006 2005 m m Cash generated from continuing operations 320 376 Income tax paid 118 64 Interest received 527 636 Interest paid 82 107 Dividends received 1 2 Cashflows from discontinued operations 531 812 Net cashflows from operating activities 117 31 Proceeds from sales or maturities of: Available for sale investments 8,166 8,788 Investment property 55 46 Property and equipment 43 13 Intangible assets 1 3 Investments in subsidiaries net of cash disposed of 113 Investments in associates 5 Purchase of: Available for sale investments 7,840 9,373 Investment property 17 31 Property and equipment 37 59 Intangible assets 127 144 Investments in subsidiaries net of cash acquired 69 106 Cashflows from discontinued operations 606 615 Net cashflows from investing activities 781 130 Proceeds from issue of share capital 6 2 Purchase of treasury shares 3 Purchase of shares from minorities 121 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 78 116 Dividends paid to preference shareholders 9 9 Dividends paid to minority interests 9 13 Proceeds from issuance of long term borrowings 74 Net movement in other borrowings 243 86 Cashflows from discontinued operations 9 Net cashflows from financing activities 389 225 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 509 324 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of the year 1,612 1,864 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 81 72 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of the year 2,040 1,612 Royal & SunAlliance 48 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies Introduction In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the BornhuetterOne of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to protect Ferguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
The themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance companies Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of business.
In accept the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders and seek to selecting its best estimate, the Group considers the appropriateness of add value through the aggregation and management of these risks.
the methods and bases to the individual circumstances of the provision class and underwriting year.
The process is designed to select the most The uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reflected in the appropriate best estimate.
financial statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the financial statements principally arises in respect of the insurance Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally liabilities of the company.
assessed separately, being measured either at the face value of the loss adjusters estimates or projected separately in order to allow for The insurance liabilities of an insurance company include the provision the future development of large claims.
for unearned premiums and unexpired risks and the provision for outstanding claims.
Unearned premiums and unexpired risks represent Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
A separate the amount of income set aside by the company to cover the cost of estimate is made of the amounts that will be recoverable from reinsurers claims that may arise during the unexpired period of risk of insurance based upon the gross provisions and having due regard to collectability.
policies in force at the balance sheet date.
Outstanding claims represents The claims provisions are subject to close scrutiny both within the the companys estimate of the cost of settlement of claims that have Groups business units and at Group Corporate Centre.
In addition, occurred by the balance sheet date but have not yet been finally settled.
for major classes where the risks and uncertainties inherent in the In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision provisions are greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards undertaken by advisers who are able to draw upon their specialist the eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the balance expertise and a broader knowledge of current industry trends in claims sheet date but remain unsettled.
This includes claims that may have development.
As an example, the Groups exposure to asbestos and occurred but have not yet been notified to the company and those environmental pollution is examined on this basis.
The results of these that are not yet apparent to the insured.
reviews are considered when establishing the appropriate levels of provisions for outstanding claims and unexpired periods of risk.
As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the the appropriate provisions.
determination of insurance liabilities involve obtaining corroborative evidence from as wide a range of sources as possible and combining Estimation techniques these to form the overall estimate.
This technique means that the Claims and unexpired risks provisions are determined based upon estimate is inevitably deterministic rather than stochastic.
A stochastic previous claims experience, knowledge of events and the terms and valuation approach, whereby a range of possible outcomes is estimated conditions of the relevant policies and on interpretation of circumstances.
and probabilities assigned thereto, is only possible in a limited number Particularly relevant is experience with similar cases and historical claims of situations.
The approach also includes the consideration of the development of loss payment trends, the levels of unpaid claims, The pension assets and pension and post retirement liabilities are legislative changes, judicial decisions and economic conditions.
calculated in accordance with International Accounting Standard 19 IAS 19.
The assets, liabilities and income statement charge, calculated Where possible the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the in accordance with IAS 19, are sensitive to the assumptions made, including required level of provisions.
This assists in giving greater understanding of inflation, interest rate, investment return and mortality.
IAS 19 compares, the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The Groups estimates of at a given date, the current market value of a pensions funds assets with losses and loss expenses are reached after a review of several commonly its long term liabilities, which are calculated using a discount rate in line accepted actuarial projection methodologies and a number of different with yields on AA rated bonds of suitable duration and currency.
As such, bases to determine these provisions.
These include methods based upon the financial position of a pension fund on this basis is highly sensitive to the following: changes in bond rates and equity markets.
The development of previously settled claims, where payments to Uncertainties and contingencies date are extrapolated for each prior year, The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be characterised Estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and average cost, under a number of specific headings, such as: Notified claims development, where notified claims to date for each year Uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would give rise are extrapolated based upon observed development of earlier years, to a policyholder suffering an insured loss, Expected loss ratios.
Uncertainty as to the extent of policy coverage and limits applicable, Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 49 Uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by a policyholder are in flux.
Consequently, traditional techniques for estimating claims as a result of the event occurring, provisions cannot wholly be relied upon and the Group employs specialised techniques to determine provisions using the extensive Uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder for a knowledge of both internal asbestos and environmental pollution loss suffered.
experts and external legal and professional advisors.
The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: the characteristics of the insured risks and the cost of a claim will be determined by the actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
The long delay in reporting claims from the date of exposure for example, cases of mesothelioma can have a latent period of 40 or There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of more years.
This makes estimating the ultimate number of claims the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
we will receive particularly difficult, Following the identification and notification of an insured loss, there may still be uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing of the settlement Issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible of the claim.
There are many factors that will determine the level of parties and insurers, uncertainty such as inflation, inconsistent judicial interpretations and Emerging court decisions increasing or decreasing insurer liability, court judgements that broaden policy coverage beyond the intent of the original insurance, legislative changes and claims handling procedures.
The tendency for social trends and factors to influence court awards, The establishment of insurance liabilities is an inherently uncertain process Developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover reinsurance and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual cost of settlement for claims of this nature, of outstanding claims and unexpired risks can vary substantially from the For US liabilities from our London market business, developments in initial estimates, particularly for the Groups long tail lines of business.
The the tactics of US plaintiff lawyers and court decisions and awards.
Group seeks to provide appropriate levels of claims provision and provision for unexpired risks taking the known facts and experience into account.
Acquisitions and disposals The Group makes acquisitions and disposals of businesses as part of The Group has exposures to risks in each class of business within each its normal operations.
All acquisitions are made after due diligence, operating segment that may develop and that could have a material which will include, amongst other matters, assessment of the adequacy impact upon the Groups financial position.
The geographical and of claims reserves, assessment of the recoverability of reinsurance insurance risk diversity within the Groups portfolio of issued insurance balances, inquiries with regard to outstanding litigation and inquiries policies make it not possible to predict whether material development of local regulators and taxation authorities.
Consideration is also given will occur and, if it does occur, the location and the timing of such an to potential costs, risks and issues in relation to the integration of any occurrence.
The estimation of insurance liabilities involves the use of proposed acquisitions with existing R&SA operations.
The Group will judgements and assumptions that are specific to the insurance risks seek to receive the benefit of appropriate contractual representations within each territory and the particular type of insurance risk covered.
and warranties in connection with any acquisition and, where necessary, The diversity of the insurance risks results in it not being possible to additional indemnifications in relation to specific risks although there can identify individual judgments and assumptions that are more likely be no guarantee that such protection will be adequate in all circumstances.
than others to have a material impact on the future development The Group may also provide relevant representations, warranties and of the insurance liabilities.
indemnities to counterparties on any disposal.
While such representations, The sections below identify a number of specific risks relating to warranties and indemnities are essential components of many contractual asbestos and environmental claims.
There may be other classes of relationships, they do not represent the underlying purpose for the risk which could develop in the future and that could have a material transaction.
These clauses are customary in such contracts and may impact on the Groups financial position.
from time to time lead to us receiving claims from counterparties.
The Group evaluates the concentration of exposures to individual Contracts with third parties and cumulative insurance risk and establishes its reinsurance policy The Group enters into joint ventures, outsourcing contracts and distribution to reduce such exposure to levels acceptable to the Group.
arrangements with third parties in the normal course of its business and is reliant upon those third parties performing their obligations in accordance Asbestos and environmental claims with the terms and conditions of the contracts.
The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims for asbestos and environmental pollution is subject to a range of uncertainties that is Litigation, mediation and arbitration generally greater than those encountered for other classes of insurance The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, is subject business.
As a result, it is not possible to determine the future development to litigation, mediation and arbitration, and regulatory, governmental and of asbestos and environmental claims with the same degree of reliability other sectoral inquiries in the normal course of its business.
In addition as with other types of claims, particularly in periods when theories of law the Group is subject to litigation in connection with its former ownership Royal & SunAlliance 50 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies continued of the US operation.
The directors do not believe that any current Income and expenses for each income statement item are translated at mediation, arbitration, regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries average exchange rates.
Balance sheet assets and liabilities are translated and pending or threatened litigation or dispute will have a material at the closing exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
adverse effect on the Groups financial position, although there can be Investment risk no assurance that losses resulting from any current mediation, arbitration, The Group is exposed to credit risk on its invested assets.
Credit risk regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries and pending or threatened includes the non performance of contractual payment obligations litigation or dispute will not materially affect the Groups financial position on invested assets and adverse changes in the credit worthiness of or cashflows for any period.
invested assets including exposures to issuers or counterparties for Reinsurance bonds, equities, deposits and derivatives.
Our insurance investment The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contracts with portfolios are concentrated in listed securities.
We use derivative financial its reinsurers and the possibility of default by its reinsurers.
The Group instruments to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in interest is also exposed to the credit risk assumed in fronting arrangements.
In rates, foreign exchange rates and equity markets.
We have strict controls selecting the reinsurers with whom we do business our strategy is to seek over the use of derivative instruments.
reinsurers with the best combination of credit rating, price and capacity.
Rating agencies We publish internally a list of authorised reinsurers who pass our selection The ability of the Group to write certain types of insurance business is process and which our operations may use for new transactions.
dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit ratings from The Group monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including the rating agencies.
The Group has the objective of maintaining single those to whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the A ratings.
At the present time the ratings are A from S&P and A financial position for non recoverability due to reinsurer default by from AM Best.
Any worsening in the ratings would have an adverse requiring operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having impact on the ability of the Group to write certain types of general regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List is insurance business.
the list of companies whom the directors believe will not be able to Regulatory environment pay amounts due to the Group in full.
The regulatory environment is subject to significant change in many Changes in foreign exchange rates may impact our results of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We continue to monitor the We publish our consolidated financial statements in pounds sterling.
The directors are confident that Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to translate other currencies, the Group will continue to meet all future regulatory capital requirements.
particularly other European currencies and the US dollar, into pounds In addition, the Group is continuing to monitor and respond to consultation sterling will impact our reported consolidated financial condition, results on the latest Solvency II proposals, which are intended, in the medium of operations and cashflows from period to period.
These fluctuations in term, to achieve greater harmonisation of approach across European exchange rates will also impact the pound sterling value of our investments member states to assessing capital resources and requirements.
and the return on our investments.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 51 Shareholder information Registered Office and Group Corporate Centre Distribution of shares by geography 9th Floor, 1 Plantation Place, 30 Fenchurch Street, London EC3M 3BD.
Company website The Annual Report & Accounts, interim results and other useful UK 61% information about the Company is available on our website Europe 14% www.
USA & Canada 18% Asia & Others 7% Investor Relations For further information about Royal & SunAlliance, please contact Analysis of investors the Investor Relations department at: Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc, 9th Floor, 1 Plantation Place, 30 Fenchurch Street, London EC3M 3BD.
Annual General Meeting Pension funds 25% Life 14% Ordinary shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual Unit Trusts Mutual Funds 35% General Meeting AGM, which will be held in The Queen Elizabeth II Private Retail 13% Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at Others 13% 11.00am on Monday, 21 May 2007.
Ordinary shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM to ask a question in person may write to the Company Share dealing Secretarys department at the registered office at the address above.
Shares can be bought or sold through a stockbroker, bank or building Disabled shareholders society.
The rates of commission charged for share dealing services will Royal & SunAlliance is committed to providing a quality service to all of vary depending on the kind of service required.
The cheapest way to its shareholders.
An induction loop is installed at the AGM venue.
Please deal in shares is usually on an execution only basis which means that contact the Company Secretarys department at the registered office at a broker will act on their clients instructions to buy or sell, but will not the address above.
give advice on the merits of the transaction.
Share price The Company has established an execution only sharedealing service The Companys share price is shown on Ceefax BBC1 page 230 and with Lloyds TSB Registrars for existing shareholders with a UK registered on Teletext Ch4 page 519.
It is also available on the Companys website address.
Shares can be bought or sold within minutes, between the hours www.
of 8.30am and 4.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday.
Share and shareholder analysis Shareholders will need to have their share certificate s to hand when Royal & SunAlliance is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the dealing.
The average total daily trading volume during 2006 was approximately 24m shares.
The opening market price on 3 January Capital gains tax 2006 was 128p and closing market price on 29 December 2006 was The market value at 31 March 1982 of each post consolidation 152.5p.
The highest daily closing price was 154.75p on 21 November ordinary share of 27.5p in the Company, for capital gains tax purposes 2006 and lowest daily closing price was 118.25p on 17 January 2006. after relevant adjustments, was 146.41p 25p shares 133.1p for former Further details of the ordinary and preference shares are found in note Royal Insurance shareholders and 57.97p 25p shares 52.7p for former 18 on page 73 of the full Annual Report and Accounts.
An adjustment to tax cost is required to take account of the 2003 rights issue, according to whether the rights were Shareholdings by size taken up or sold.
Similarly, for former Royal Insurance shareholders an No of shares Shareholders % Shares % adjustment to tax cost is required to take account of the 1993 rights 1 24,999 50,398 97.45 115.3m 3.86 issue, according to whether the rights were taken up or sold.
The service can be particularly useful for 1,000,000 1,999,999 81 0.16 112.1m 3.75 shareholders with a small number of shares, which would be uneconomic more than 2,000,000 149 0.29 2,588.7m 86.65 to sell.
Shares donated through ShareGift are transferred into the name Total 51,712 100 2,987.5m 100 of The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity number 1052686.
ShareGifts purpose is to realise as much value as possible by collecting shares, selling them and using the proceeds to make donations to a wide range of UK charities.
Further details can be obtained from: The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN.
The website address is www.
Royal & SunAlliance 52 Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements 2006 Shareholder information continued The Unclaimed Assets Register Should you have an enquiry relating to the above please contact Royal & SunAlliance supplies unclaimed dividend data to The Unclaimed the Investor Relations department at Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Assets Register UAR, which provides investors who have lost track of Group plc, 9th Floor, 1 Plantation Place, 30 Fenchurch Street, shareholdings with the opportunity to search the UARs database of London EC3M 3BD.
Telephone: 44 0 20 7111 7136. unclaimed financial assets on payment of a small, fixed fee.
The UAR Full Annual Report & Accounts donates part of the search fee to charity.
Further details can be obtained The Summary Financial Statements are extracted from the Financial from: The Unclaimed Assets Register, Bain House, 16 Connaught Place, Statements contained in the full 2006 Annual Report & Accounts.
The website The auditors report on the 2006 Annual Accounts and the auditable part address is www.
of the remuneration report and the auditors statement under section Registrar 235 3 whether directors report is consistent with accounts are each Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
unqualified and the auditors report does not contain a statement under The shareholder helpline telephone number is 44 0 870 600 3988.
Shareholders with This Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements may not contain a text phone facility should use 44 0 870 600 3950. sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results Please quote the company reference number 0059 and your and state of affairs of the Group as would be provided by the full Annual shareholder account number on your share certificate or dividend tax Report & Accounts.
Shareholders requiring more detailed information vouchers when contacting or corresponding with Lloyds TSB Registrars.
have the right to obtain free of charge a copy of the Groups full Annual Report & Accounts.
Copies of the full Annual Report & Accounts are The Company has appointed Lloyds TSB Registrars as its registrar available on our website www.
com or by writing to the to manage the shareholder register, to ensure that all information Group Company Secretary at the registered office address on page 51. held about the Companys shareholders is kept up to date and to You may elect to receive future copies of the full Annual Report & pay dividends.
Accounts by writing to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
American Depositary Receipts The Company terminated its listing, in the form of American Depositary Shares, on the New York Stock Exchange on 30 October 2006.
Financial calendar 8 March 2007 9 August 2007 Announcement of the full year results for 2006, the ordinary final Announcement of the interim results for the six months ended dividend for 2006 and the first preference dividend for 2007 30 June 2007, the ordinary interim dividend for 2007 and the second preference dividend for 2007 14 March 2007 Ex dividend date for the ordinary final dividend for 2006 and the first 15 August 2007 preference dividend for 2007 Ex dividend date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2007 16 March 2007 17 August 2007 Record date for the ordinary final dividend for 2006 and the first Record date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2007 preference dividend for 2007 23 August 2007 22 March 2007 Announcement of the scrip dividend price for the ordinary interim Announcement of the scrip dividend price for the ordinary final dividend for 2007 dividend for 2006 29 August 2007 3 April 2007 Ex dividend date for the second preference dividend for 2007 Payment date for the first preference dividend for 2007 31 August 2007 9 May 2007 Record date for the second preference dividend for 2007 Deadline for sending scrip dividend mandates to Lloyds TSB Registrars 2 October 2007 in relation to ordinary final dividend for 2006 Payment date for the second preference dividend for 2007 21 May 2007 2 November 2007 Annual General Meeting Deadline for sending scrip dividend mandates to Lloyds TSB Registrars 1 June 2007 in relation to ordinary interim dividend 2007 Payment date for the ordinary final dividend for 2006 subject to 30 November 2007 shareholder approval at the AGM Payment date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2007 provisional date Visit www.
This Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements contains forward looking statements as defined in the US Private Securities Reform Act.
For a discussion of factors that could affect future results, reference should be made to cautionary statements on the inside back cover.
This Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements is only a summary of information in the Groups Annual Report & Accounts, directors report and remuneration report.
Frequently asked questions A range of shareholder information is available on line at Q I would like to receive future communications www.
co. uk, including practical help on transferring shares electronically how can I arrange this?
Shareholders can also register for secure access A Please register at www.
co. uk and create your own to their portfolio, enabling them to check holdings and register their portfolio.
You will need your shareholder account number on your email address to receive shareholder information and the Annual Report share certificate s or dividend tax voucher to access this service.
Q Why do I receive multiple sets of information whenever Q I have recently moved house who should I tell?
A Please notify Lloyds TSB Registrars in writing at the address given A If you have acquired shares on more than one occasion, your on page 52.
If you holdings may have been recorded on the register of shareholders hold shares in joint names, the letter must be signed by the first with slightly different details.
As a result, two or more accounts named person on the share certificate.
If you have previously may have been set up for you.
Sometimes multiple accounts are registered for the Shareview portfolio service, you can log onto necessary, eg if you hold shares in your own name and also in joint www.
However, sometimes multiple accounts can be amalgamated.
Please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars to discuss Q What should I do if I change my name?
whether your accounts can be amalgamated.
A To ensure that your shareholding is registered in your new name, please write to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
You will need to enclose Q How can I get my dividends paid directly into my bank evidence of the change, for example, a copy of your marriage or building society account?
certificate or change of name deed please do not send originals, A You will need to supply your bank or building society account together with your share certificate s and any uncashed dividend details to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
You can obtain a dividend payment cheques.
A copy of the form is also attached when dividend cheques are mailed out.
Q My share certificate has been lost stolen.
Q Can I receive shares in lieu of cash dividends?
A You should inform Lloyds TSB Registrars immediately.
They will A The Company offers a scrip dividend scheme, which allows ordinary send you a form of indemnity to complete and request payment of shareholders to receive new ordinary shares of 27.5p each instead an administration fee.
The form of indemnity is required to protect the of cash dividends.
The scrip dividend scheme applies to both Company from the potential misuse of the missing share certificate, interim and final dividends, and enables shareholders to increase so must be returned before a new share certificate can be issued.
their holdings in the Company without incurring dealing costs Please remember that your share certificate is a valuable document or stamp duty.
Please telephone Lloyds TSB Registrars on which should be kept in a safe place.
Q I have lost my dividend tax voucher how can I get Q I would like to transfer shares to somebody I know.
A To get a replacement, you will need to contact Lloyds TSB Registrars.
A Such transactions need not involve a stockbroker: you can use a stock A small fee will be payable for this service.
The form can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars or printed from their website www.
Q I have found an out of date dividend cheque how can I cash it?
Q How do I register the death of a shareholder?
A Please send the out of date cheque to Lloyds TSB Registrars, with a A The first step is to write to Lloyds TSB Registrars, to let them know request that they issue a replacement cheque.
There will be a small what you are going to do.
They will then place a temporary marker administration charge for issuing replacement dividend cheques for on the register to ensure that further dividend payments are not larger payments.
issued in the late shareholders name.
They will also send you the forms that you will need to complete.
Important disclaimer This document may contain forward-looking statements as defined in the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to certain of the Companys plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance and results.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances which are beyond the Companys control, including amongst other things, UK domestic and global economic business conditions, market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, the policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the impact of competition, inflation, deflation, the timing impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries, as well as the impact of Designed and produced by CGI London 44 0 20 7566 4600. tax and other legislation and other regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company Directors photography by Homer Sykes: Getty Images pages 11 and 16: and its affiliates operate.
As a result, the Companys actual future financial condition, Sam Robinson page 12: R&SA pages 10, 14 and 24. performance and results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in the Companys forward-looking statements.
The Company undertakes no Printed by royle corporate print on Revive Special Silk which has minimum obligation to update any forward-looking statements, save in respect of any requirement 30% post consumer waste, maximum 60% virgin fibre and 10% Mill broke.
under applicable law or regulation.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2006 www.
