Royal & SunAlliance 50 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies Introduction In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the BornhuetterOne of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to protect Ferguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
The themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance companies Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of business.
In accept the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders and seek to selecting its best estimate, the Group considers the appropriateness of add value through the aggregation and management of these risks.
the methods and bases to the individual circumstances of the provision class and underwriting year.
The process is designed to select the most The uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reflected in the appropriate best estimate.
financial statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the financial statements principally arises in respect of the insurance Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally liabilities of the company.
assessed separately, being measured either at the face value of the loss adjusters estimates or projected separately in order to allow for The insurance liabilities of an insurance company include the provision the future development of large claims.
for unearned premiums and unexpired risks and the provision for outstanding claims.
Unearned premiums and unexpired risks represent Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
A separate the amount of income set aside by the company to cover the cost of estimate is made of the amounts that will be recoverable from reinsurers claims that may arise during the unexpired period of risk of insurance based upon the gross provisions and having due regard to collectability.
policies in force at the balance sheet date.
Outstanding claims represents The claims provisions are subject to close scrutiny both within the the companys estimate of the cost of settlement of claims that have Groups business units and at Group Corporate Centre.
In addition, occurred by the balance sheet date but have not yet been finally settled.
for major classes where the risks and uncertainties inherent in the In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision provisions are greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards undertaken by advisers who are able to draw upon their specialist the eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the balance expertise and a broader knowledge of current industry trends in claims sheet date but remain unsettled.
This includes claims that may have development.
As an example, the Groups exposure to asbestos and occurred but have not yet been notified to the company and those environmental pollution is examined on this basis.
The results of these that are not yet apparent to the insured.
reviews are considered when establishing the appropriate levels of provisions for outstanding claims and unexpired periods of risk.
As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the the appropriate provisions.
determination of insurance liabilities involve obtaining corroborative evidence from as wide a range of sources as possible and combining Estimation techniques these to form the overall estimate.
This technique means that the Claims and unexpired risks provisions are determined based upon estimate is inevitably deterministic rather than stochastic.
A stochastic previous claims experience, knowledge of events and the terms and valuation approach, whereby a range of possible outcomes is estimated conditions of the relevant policies and on interpretation of circumstances.
and probabilities assigned thereto, is only possible in a limited number Particularly relevant is experience with similar cases and historical claims of situations.
The approach also includes the consideration of the development of loss payment trends, the levels of unpaid claims, The pension assets and pension and post retirement liabilities are legislative changes, judicial decisions and economic conditions.
calculated in accordance with International Accounting Standard 19 IAS 19.
The assets, liabilities and income statement charge, calculated Where possible the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the in accordance with IAS 19, are sensitive to the assumptions made, including required level of provisions.
This assists in giving greater understanding of inflation, interest rate, investment return and mortality.
IAS 19 compares, the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The Groups estimates of at a given date, the current market value of a pensions funds assets with losses and loss expenses are reached after a review of several commonly its long term liabilities, which are calculated using a discount rate in line accepted actuarial projection methodologies and a number of different with yields on AA rated bonds of suitable duration and currency.
As such, bases to determine these provisions.
These include methods based upon the financial position of a pension fund on this basis is highly sensitive to the following: changes in bond rates and equity markets.
The development of previously settled claims, where payments to Uncertainties and contingencies date are extrapolated for each prior year, The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be characterised Estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and average cost, under a number of specific headings, such as: Notified claims development, where notified claims to date for each year Uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would give rise are extrapolated based upon observed development of earlier years, to a policyholder suffering an insured loss, Expected loss ratios.
Uncertainty as to the extent of policy coverage and limits applicable, Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 51 Uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by a policyholder are in flux.
Consequently, traditional techniques for estimating claims as a result of the event occurring, provisions cannot wholly be relied upon and the Group employs specialised techniques to determine provisions using the extensive Uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder for a knowledge of both internal asbestos and environmental pollution loss suffered.
experts and external legal and professional advisors.
The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: the characteristics of the insured risks and the cost of a claim will be determined by the actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
The long delay in reporting claims from the date of exposure for example, cases of mesothelioma can have a latent period of 40 or There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of more years.
This makes estimating the ultimate number of claims the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
we will receive particularly difficult, Following the identification and notification of an insured loss, there may still be uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing of the settlement Issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible of the claim.
There are many factors that will determine the level of parties and insurers, uncertainty such as inflation, inconsistent judicial interpretations and Emerging court decisions increasing or decreasing insurer liability, court judgements that broaden policy coverage beyond the intent of the original insurance, legislative changes and claims handling procedures.
The tendency for social trends and factors to influence court awards, The establishment of insurance liabilities is an inherently uncertain process Developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover reinsurance and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual cost of settlement for claims of this nature, of outstanding claims and unexpired risks can vary substantially from the For US liabilities from our London market business, developments in initial estimates, particularly for the Groups long tail lines of business.
The the tactics of US plaintiff lawyers and court decisions and awards.
Group seeks to provide appropriate levels of claims provision and provision for unexpired risks taking the known facts and experience into account.
Acquisitions and disposals The Group makes acquisitions and disposals of businesses as part of The Group has exposures to risks in each class of business within each its normal operations.
All acquisitions are made after due diligence, operating segment that may develop and that could have a material which will include, amongst other matters, assessment of the adequacy impact upon the Groups financial position.
The geographical and of claims reserves, assessment of the recoverability of reinsurance insurance risk diversity within the Groups portfolio of issued insurance balances, inquiries with regard to outstanding litigation and inquiries policies make it not possible to predict whether material development of local regulators and taxation authorities.
Consideration is also given will occur and, if it does occur, the location and the timing of such an to potential costs, risks and issues in relation to the integration of any occurrence.
The estimation of insurance liabilities involves the use of proposed acquisitions with existing R&SA operations.
The Group will judgements and assumptions that are specific to the insurance risks seek to receive the benefit of appropriate contractual representations within each territory and the particular type of insurance risk covered.
and warranties in connection with any acquisition and, where necessary, The diversity of the insurance risks results in it not being possible to additional indemnifications in relation to specific risks although there can identify individual judgments and assumptions that are more likely be no guarantee that such protection will be adequate in all circumstances.
than others to have a material impact on the future development The Group may also provide relevant representations, warranties and of the insurance liabilities.
indemnities to counterparties on any disposal.
While such representations, The sections below identify a number of specific risks relating to warranties and indemnities are essential components of many contractual asbestos and environmental claims.
There may be other classes of relationships, they do not represent the underlying purpose for the risk which could develop in the future and that could have a material transaction.
These clauses are customary in such contracts and may impact on the Groups financial position.
from time to time lead to us receiving claims from counterparties.
The Group evaluates the concentration of exposures to individual Contracts with third parties and cumulative insurance risk and establishes its reinsurance policy The Group enters into joint ventures, outsourcing contracts and distribution to reduce such exposure to levels acceptable to the Group.
arrangements with third parties in the normal course of its business and is reliant upon those third parties performing their obligations in accordance Asbestos and environmental claims with the terms and conditions of the contracts.
The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims for asbestos and environmental pollution is subject to a range of uncertainties that is Litigation, mediation and arbitration generally greater than those encountered for other classes of insurance The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, is subject business.
As a result, it is not possible to determine the future development to litigation, mediation and arbitration, and regulatory, governmental and of asbestos and environmental claims with the same degree of reliability other sectoral inquiries in the normal course of its business.
In addition as with other types of claims, particularly in periods when theories of law the Group is subject to litigation in connection with its former ownership Royal & SunAlliance 52 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies continued of the US operation.
The directors do not believe that any current Income and expenses for each income statement item are translated at mediation, arbitration, regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries average exchange rates.
Balance sheet assets and liabilities are translated and pending or threatened litigation or dispute will have a material at the closing exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
adverse effect on the Groups financial position, although there can be Investment risk no assurance that losses resulting from any current mediation, arbitration, The Group is exposed to credit risk on its invested assets.
Credit risk regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries and pending or threatened includes the non performance of contractual payment obligations litigation or dispute will not materially affect the Groups financial position on invested assets and adverse changes in the credit worthiness of or cashflows for any period.
invested assets including exposures to issuers or counterparties for Reinsurance bonds, equities, deposits and derivatives.
Our insurance investment The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contracts with portfolios are concentrated in listed securities.
We use derivative financial its reinsurers and the possibility of default by its reinsurers.
The Group instruments to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in interest is also exposed to the credit risk assumed in fronting arrangements.
In rates, foreign exchange rates and equity markets.
We have strict controls selecting the reinsurers with whom we do business our strategy is to seek over the use of derivative instruments.
reinsurers with the best combination of credit rating, price and capacity.
Rating agencies We publish internally a list of authorised reinsurers who pass our selection The ability of the Group to write certain types of insurance business is process and which our operations may use for new transactions.
dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit ratings from The Group monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including the rating agencies.
The Group has the objective of maintaining single those to whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the A ratings.
At the present time the ratings are A from S&P and A financial position for non recoverability due to reinsurer default by from AM Best.
Any worsening in the ratings would have an adverse requiring operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having impact on the ability of the Group to write certain types of general regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List is insurance business.
the list of companies whom the directors believe will not be able to Regulatory environment pay amounts due to the Group in full.
The regulatory environment is subject to significant change in many Changes in foreign exchange rates may impact our results of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We continue to monitor the We publish our consolidated financial statements in pounds sterling.
The directors are confident that Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to translate other currencies, the Group will continue to meet all future regulatory capital requirements.
particularly other European currencies and the US dollar, into pounds In addition, the Group is continuing to monitor and respond to consultation sterling will impact our reported consolidated financial condition, results on the latest Solvency II proposals, which are intended, in the medium of operations and cashflows from period to period.
These fluctuations in term, to achieve greater harmonisation of approach across European exchange rates will also impact the pound sterling value of our investments member states to assessing capital resources and requirements.
and the return on our investments.
