Presentation of accounts The IASBs amendment to IAS 39, Financial Guarantee The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Contracts, published in August 2005, amended IAS 39 and Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International IFRS 4.
The amendment defines a financial guarantee contract Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations and requires such contracts to be recorded initially at fair value issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations and subsequently at higher of the provision determined in Committee of the IASB together IFRS as adopted by the accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and European Union EU.
The EU has not adopted the complete Contingent Assets and the amount initially recognised less text of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and amortisation.
The amendment, effective for annual periods Measurement: it has relaxed some of the standards hedging beginning on or after 1 January 2006, had no material effect requirements.
The Group has not taken advantage of this on the Group or the company.
relaxation and has adopted IAS 39 as issued by the IASB.
The date of transition to IFRS for the Group and the company The In December 2005, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 21 Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and the date of their The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates to clarify opening IFRS balance sheets was 1 January 2004. that a monetary item can form part of the net investment in overseas operations regardless of the currency in which it is The company is incorporated in the UK and registered in Scotland.
denominated and that the net investment in a foreign operation The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis except that can include a loan from a fellow subsidiary.
The amendment, the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: adopted by the EU in May 2006, had no material effect on the derivative financial instruments, held-for-trading financial assets Group or the company.
and financial liabilities, financial assets and financial liabilities that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss, available-for- 2.
Basis of consolidation sale financial assets and investment property.
Recognised financial The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial assets and financial liabilities in fair value hedges are adjusted for statements of the company and entities including certain changes in fair value in respect of the risk that is hedged.
special purpose entities controlled by the Group its subsidiaries.
Control exists where the Group has the power The company accounts are presented in accordance with the to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity: Companies Act 1985. generally conferred by holding a majority of voting rights.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and Change of accounting policy contingent liabilities are included in the consolidated accounts at As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group and the company their fair value.
Any excess of the cost the fair value of assets implemented IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments Presentation, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and issued by the Group plus any directly attributable costs of an Measurement and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts with effect acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired is from 1 January 2005 without restating the income statement, recognised as goodwill.
The interest of minority shareholders is balance sheet and notes for 2004.
The Group adopted the stated at their share of the fair value of the subsidiarys net assets.
second amendment to IAS 39 The Fair Value Option issued by the IASB in June 2005 also from 1 January 2005.
The effect of The results of subsidiaries acquired are included in the implementing IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 on the Group and consolidated income statement from the date control passes company balance sheets and shareholders funds as at 1 to the Group.
The results of subsidiaries sold are included up January 2005 is set out in Note 46.
In preparing the 2004 until the Group ceases to control them.
comparatives, UK GAAP principles then current have been applied to financial instruments.
The main differences between All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses UK GAAP and IFRS on financial instruments are summarised are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated accounts are in Note 46 on the accounts.
prepared using uniform accounting policies.
The IASBs amendment to IAS 39, Cash Flow Hedge 3.
Revenue recognition Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions, published in Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans April 2005, amended IAS 39 to permit the foreign currency risk and receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity and of a highly probable forecast intragroup transaction to qualify interest expense on financial liabilities other than those at fair as a hedged item in consolidated financial statements.
The value through profit or loss are determined using the effective amendment, effective for annual periods beginning on or after interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of 1 January 2006, had no material effect on the financial calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial statements of the Group or the company.
liability or group of financial assets or liabilities and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or liability.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the instruments initial carrying amount.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees receivable, that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows.
130 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements Financial assets and financial liabilities held-for-trading or 4.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recorded The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form of at fair value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees.
together with dividends and interest receivable and payable.
For defined benefit schemes, scheme liabilities are measured on Commitment and utilisation fees are determined as a percentage an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and of the outstanding facility.
If it is unlikely that a specific lending discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return on a arrangement will be entered into, such fees are taken to profit high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to or loss over the life of the facility otherwise they are deferred the scheme liabilities.
Scheme assets are measured at their fair and included in the effective interest rate on the advance.
Any surplus or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability Fees in respect of services are recognised as the right to deficit.
The current service cost and any past service costs consideration accrues through the provision of the service to the together with the expected return on scheme assets less the customer.
The arrangements are generally contractual and the unwinding of the discount on the scheme liabilities is charged to cost of providing the service is incurred as the service is operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised rendered.
The price is usually fixed and always determinable.
The in full in the period in which they occur outside profit or loss and application of this policy to significant fee types is outlined below.
presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Payment services: this comprises income received for payment Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are services including cheques cashed, direct debits, Clearing recognised in the income statement when payable.
House Automated Payments the UK electronic settlement system and BACS payments the automated clearing house 5.
Intangible assets and goodwill that processes direct debits and direct credits.
These are Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at generally charged on a per transaction basis.
The income is cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
earned when the payment or transaction occurs.
Charges for Amortisation is charged to profit or loss using methods that payment services are usually debited to the customers best reflect the economic benefits over their estimated useful account, monthly or quarterly in arrears.
Accruals are raised economic lives and is included in depreciation and amortisation.
for services provided but not charged at period end.
The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: Card related services: fees from credit card business include: Core deposit intangibles 6 to 10 years Other acquired intangibles 5 to 10 years Commission received from retailers for processing credit Computer software 3 to 5 years and debit card transactions: income is accrued to the income statement as the service is performed.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is written-off as incurred.
Direct costs relating to the development Interchange received: as issuer, the Group receives a fee of internal-use computer software are capitalised once interchange each time a cardholder purchases goods and technical feasibility and economic viability have been services.
The Group also receives interchange fees from established.
These costs include payroll, the costs of materials other card issuers for providing cash advances through its and services, and directly attributable overhead.
Capitalisation branch and Automated Teller Machine networks.
These fees of costs ceases when the software is capable of operating as are accrued once the transaction has taken place.
During and after development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment against the projected benefits that An annual fee payable by a credit card holder is deferred the software is expected to generate.
Costs incurred prior to and taken to profit or loss over the period of the service i. e. the establishment of technical feasibility and economic viability 12 months.
are expensed as incurred as are all training costs and general overhead.
The costs of licences to use computer software that Insurance brokerage: this is made up of fees and commissions are expected to generate economic benefits beyond one year received from the agency sale of insurance.
Commission on the are also capitalised.
sale of an insurance contract is earned at the inception of the policy as the insurance has been arranged and placed.
However, Acquired goodwill being the excess of the cost of an provision is made where commission is refundable in the event of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the policy cancellation in line with estimated cancellations.
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired is initially Investment management fees: fees charged for managing recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less any investments are recognised as revenue as the services are accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the provided.
Incremental costs that are directly attributable to acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included in the securing an investment management contract are deferred and balance sheet caption Intangible fixed assets and that on charged as expense as the related revenue is recognised.
associates within their carrying amounts.
The gain or loss on the disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes Insurance premiums see accounting policy 10 below.
the carrying value of any related goodwill.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 131 Financial statements Accounting policies continued On implementation of IFRS, the Group did not restate business impairment loss on intangible assets excluding goodwill or combinations that occurred before January 2004.
Under previous property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises provided GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1 October 1998 was the increased carrying value does not exceed that which it would capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful economic life.
have been had no impairment loss been recognised.
Impairment Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 October 1998 was losses on goodwill are not reversed.
The carrying amount of goodwill in the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet 1 January 2004 was 8.
Foreign currencies 13,131 million, its carrying value under previous GAAP.
The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling which is the functional currency of the company.
Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses.
the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign major components having different useful lives, they are currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange accounted for separately.
Property that is being constructed or ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences developed for future use as investment property is classified as arising on translation are reported in income from trading property, plant and equipment and stated at cost until activities except for differences arising on cash flow hedges construction or development is complete, at which time it is and hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis exchange rates ruling at the dates the values were determined.
so as to write-off the depreciable amount of property, plant Translation differences arising on non-monetary items measured and equipment including assets owned and let on operating at fair value are recognised in profit or loss except for leases except investment property see accounting policy 19 differences arising on available-for-sale non-monetary financial below over their estimated useful lives.
The depreciable assets, for example equity shares, which are included in the amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value.
Land is available-for-sale reserve in equity unless the asset is the not depreciated.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: hedged item in a fair value hedge.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including Short leaseholds unexpired period goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are of the lease translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the Property adaptation costs 10 to 15 years balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign Computer equipment up to 5 years operations are translated into sterling at average exchange Other equipment 4 to 15 years rates unless these do not approximate to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange Under previous GAAP, the Groups freehold and long leasehold differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation is property occupied for its own use was recorded at valuation on recognised directly in equity and included in profit or loss on the basis of existing use value.
The Group elected to use this its disposal.
valuation as at 31 December 2003 2,391 million as deemed cost for its opening IFRS balance sheet 1 January 2004.
Leases Contracts to lease assets are classified as finance leases if 7.
Impairment of intangible assets and property, they transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of plant and equipment ownership of the asset to the customer.
Other contracts to At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any lease assets are classified as operating leases.
indication that its intangible assets, or property, plant and equipment are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the Group Finance lease receivables are stated in the balance sheet at estimates the recoverable amount of the asset and the impairment the amount of the net investment in the lease being the loss if any.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more minimum lease payments and any unguaranteed residual value frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it discounted at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
If an asset does not generate cash flows that lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to give a are independent from those of other assets or groups of assets, constant periodic rate of return before tax on the net investment.
recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to Unguaranteed residual values are subject to regular review to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of an asset is identify potential impairment.
If there has been a reduction in the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
the estimated unguaranteed residual value, the income Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from the allocation is revised and any reduction in respect of amounts asset or cash-generating unit discounted at a rate that reflects accrued is recognised immediately.
market interest rates adjusted for risks specific to the asset or cash generating unit that have not been reflected in the estimation Rental income from operating leases is credited to the income of future cash flows.
If the recoverable amount of an intangible or statement on a receivable basis over the term of the lease.
tangible asset is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is Operating lease assets are included within Property, plant recognised immediately in profit or loss and the carrying value of and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives see the asset reduced by the amount of the loss.
A reversal of an accounting policy 6 above.
132 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements 10.
Insurance General insurance Reinsurance General insurance comprises short-duration contracts, The Group has reinsurance treaties that transfer significant principally property and liability insurance contracts.
Liabilities for reinsured contracts are calculated the nature of the products sold retail-based property and gross of reinsurance and a separate reinsurance asset recorded.
casualty, motor, home and personal health insurance contracts the insurance protection is provided on an even basis 11.
Taxation throughout the term of the policy.
Provision is made for taxation at current enacted rates on taxable profits, arising in income or in equity, taking into Premiums from general insurance contracts are recognised in account relief for overseas taxation where appropriate.
the accounting period in which they begin.
Unearned premiums Deferred taxation is accounted for in full for all temporary represent the proportion of the net premiums that relate to differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability periods of insurance after the balance sheet date and are for accounting purposes and its carrying amount for tax calculated over the period of exposure under the policy, on a purposes, except in relation to overseas earnings where daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for the estimated incidence remittance is controlled by the Group, and goodwill.
of exposure under policies which are longer than twelve months.
Provision is made where necessary for the estimated Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is amount of claims over and above unearned premiums including probable that they will be recovered.
that in respect of future written business on discontinued lines under the run-off of delegated underwriting authority 12.
It is designed to meet future claims and related On initial recognition financial assets are classified into heldexpenses and is calculated across related classes of business to-maturity investments: available-for-sale financial assets: heldon the basis of a separate carry forward of deferred acquisition for-trading: designated as at fair value through profit or loss: or expenses after making allowance for investment income.
Acquisition expenses relating to new and renewed business Held-to-maturity investments a financial asset is classified as for all classes are expensed over the period during which the a held-to-maturity investment only if it has fixed or determinable premiums are earned.
The principal acquisition costs so payments, a fixed maturity and the Group has the positive deferred are commissions payable, costs associated with the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Held-to-maturity telesales and underwriting staff and prepaid claims handling investments are initially recognised at fair value plus directly costs in respect of delegated claims handling arrangements for related transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at claims which are expected to occur after the balance sheet amortised cost using the effective interest method see date.
Claims and the related reinsurance are recognised in the accounting policy 3 above less any impairment losses.
accounting period in which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for the full cost of settling outstanding claims at the balance Held-for-trading a financial asset is classified as held-forsheet date, including claims estimated to have been incurred but trading if it is acquired principally for the purpose of selling in not yet reported at that date, and claims handling expenses.
The the near term, or forms part of a portfolio of financial related reinsurance receivable is recognised at the same time.
instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in Life assurance a qualifying hedge relationship.
Held-for-trading financial The Groups long-term assurance contracts include whole-life assets are recognised at fair value with transaction costs being term assurance, endowment assurance, flexible whole-life, recognised in profit or loss.
Subsequently they are measured pension and annuity contracts that are expected to remain in at fair value.
Gains and losses on held-for-trading financial force for an extended period of time.
Long-term assurance assets are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
contracts under which the Group does not accept significant insurance risk are classified as financial instruments.
Designated as at fair value through profit or loss financial The Group recognises the value of in-force long-term assets that the Group designates on initial recognition as being assurance contracts as an asset.
Cash flows associated with at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, in-force contracts and related assets, including reinsurance with transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss and cash flows, are projected, using appropriate assumptions as to are subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on future mortality, persistency and levels of expenses and financial assets that are designated as at fair value through excluding the value of future investment margins, to estimate profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
future surpluses attributable to the Group.
These surpluses, discounted at a risk-adjusted rate, are recognised as a Financial assets may be designated as at fair value through separate asset.
Changes in the value of this asset are included profit or loss only if such designation a eliminates or in operating profit.
significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, Premiums on long-term insurance contracts are recognised as financial liabilities or both that the Group manages and income when receivable.
Claims on long-term insurance evaluates on a fair value basis: or c relates to an instrument contracts reflect the cost of all claims arising during the year, that contains an embedded derivative which is not evidently including claims handling costs.
Claims are recognised when closely related to the host contract.
the Group becomes aware of the claim.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 133 Financial statements Accounting policies continued The principal category of financial assets designated as at fair amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value of value through profit or loss is policyholders assets estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets underpinning insurance and investment contracts issued by discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial the Group's life assurance businesses.
Impairment losses are assessed individually for significantly reduces the measurement inconsistency that financial assets that are individually significant and individually would arise if these assets were classified as available-for-sale.
or collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
In making collective assessment of impairment, financial assets Loans and receivables non-derivative financial assets with are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk fixed or determinable repayments that are not quoted in an characteristics.
Future cash flows from these portfolios are active market are classified as loans and receivables except estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows and those that are classified as available-for-sale or as held-forhistorical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk trading, or designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
Historical loss experience is adjusted, on the Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus basis of current observable data, to reflect the effects of current directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently conditions not affecting the period of historical experience.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss and the see accounting policy 3 above less any impairment losses.
carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets reduced by establishing an allowance for impairment Available-for-sale financial assets that are not classified as losses.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the impairment held-to-maturity: held-for-trading: designated as at fair value loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to an event through profit or loss: or loans and receivables are classified as after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised available-for-sale.
Financial assets can be designated as loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Once an available-for-sale on initial recognition.
Available-for-sale impairment loss has been recognised on a financial asset or financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus directly group of financial assets, interest income is recognised on the related transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at carrying amount using the rate of interest at which estimated fair value.
Unquoted equity investments whose fair value cannot future cash flows were discounted in measuring impairment.
be measured reliably are carried at cost and classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
Impairment losses and Financial assets carried at fair value when a decline in the exchange differences resulting from retranslating the amortised fair value of a financial asset classified as available-for-sale cost of currency monetary available-for-sale financial assets are has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective recognised in profit or loss together with interest calculated evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss is using the effective interest method see accounting policy 3 removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
Other changes in the fair value of available-for-sale is measured as the difference between the amortised cost of financial assets are reported in a separate component of the financial asset and its current fair value.
Impairment losses shareholders equity until disposal, when the cumulative gain on available-for-sale equity instruments are not reversed or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
through profit or loss, but those on available-for-sale debt instruments are reversed, if there is an increase in fair value Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans that is objectively related to a subsequent event.
and receivables are recognised on settlement date: all other regular way purchases are recognised on trade date.
Financial liabilities On initial recognition a financial liability is classified as held-forFair value for a net open position in a financial asset that is trading if it is incurred principally for the purpose of selling in quoted in an active market is the current bid price times the the near term, or forms part of a portfolio of financial number of units of the instrument held.
Fair values for financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is assets not quoted in an active market are determined using evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in appropriate valuation techniques including discounting future a qualifying hedge relationship.
Held-for-trading financial cash flows, option pricing models and other methods that are liabilities are recognised at fair value with transaction costs consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing being recognised in profit or loss.
Subsequently they are financial assets.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there Financial liabilities that the Group designates on initial is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of recognition as being at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale recognised at fair value, with transaction costs being or loans and receivables is impaired.
A financial asset or recognised in profit or loss and are subsequently measured at portfolio of financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss fair value.
Gains and losses on financial liabilities that are incurred if there is objective evidence that an event or events designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recognised since initial recognition of the asset have adversely affected in profit or loss as they arise.
the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
Financial liabilities may be designated as at fair value through Financial assets carried at amortised cost if there is objective profit or loss only if such designation a eliminates or evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of significantly reduces a measurement or recognition financial assets classified as loans and receivables or as heldinconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, to-maturity investments has been incurred, the Group measures financial liabilities or both that the Group manages and the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying evaluates on a fair value basis: or c relates to an instrument 134 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements that contains an embedded derivative which is not evidently 17.
Derivatives and hedging closely related to the host contract.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and subsequently measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values are The principal categories of financial liabilities designated as at determined from quoted prices in active markets where fair value through profit or loss are a structured liabilities available.
Where there is no active market for an instrument, issued by the Group: designation significantly reduces the fair value is derived from prices for the derivatives components measurement inconsistency between these liabilities and the using appropriate pricing or valuation models.
related derivatives carried at fair value: and b investment contracts issued by the Group's life assurance businesses: A derivative embedded in a contract is accounted for as a standfair value designation significantly reduces the measurement alone derivative if its economic characteristics are not closely inconsistency that would arise if these liabilities were related to the economic characteristics of the host contract: unless measured at amortised cost.
the entire contract is carried at fair value through profit or loss.
All other financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a the effective interest method see accounting policy 3 above.
derivative are recognised as they arise in profit or loss unless the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying hedge.
Fair value for a net open position in a financial liability that is The Group enters into three types of hedge relationship: quoted in an active market is the current offer price times the hedges of changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or number of units of the instrument held or issued.
Fair values liability or firm commitment fair value hedges : hedges of the for financial liabilities not quoted in an active market are variability in cash flows from a recognised asset or liability or a determined using appropriate valuation techniques including forecast transaction cash flow hedges : and hedges of the net discounting future cash flows, option pricing models and other investment in a foreign operation.
methods that are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial liabilities.
Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.
The documentation includes identification of the hedged item and 15.
Derecognition the hedging instrument, details the risk that is being hedged and A financial asset is derecognised when it has been transferred the way in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and and the transfer qualifies for derecognition.
A transfer requires during the period of the hedge.
If the hedge is not highly that the Group either: a transfers the contractual rights to effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows receive the assets cash flows: or b retains the right to the attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented assets cash flows but assumes a contractual obligation to pay risk management strategy, hedge accounting is discontinued.
those cash flows to a third party.
After a transfer, the Group assesses the extent to which it has retained the risks and Fair value hedge in a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the rewards of ownership of the transferred asset.
If substantially hedging instrument is recognised in profit or loss.
The gain or all the risks and rewards have been retained, the asset remains loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is on the balance sheet.
If substantially all of the risks and recognised in profit or loss and adjusts the carrying amount of rewards have been transferred, the asset is derecognised.
Hedge accounting is discontinued if the substantially all the risks and rewards have been neither hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or if retained nor transferred, the Group assesses whether or not it the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or has retained control of the asset.
If it has not retained control, exercised or if hedge designation is revoked.
If the hedged item the asset is derecognised.
Where the Group has retained is one for which the effective interest rate method is used, any control of the asset, it continues to recognise the asset to the cumulative adjustment is amortised to profit or loss over the life extent of its continuing involvement.
of the hedged item using a recalculated effective interest rate.
A financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the Cash flow hedge where a derivative financial instrument is obligation is discharged, or cancelled, or expires.
designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 16.
Capital instruments transaction, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The financial asset, financial liability or an equity instrument in ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
When the accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
forecast transaction results in the recognition of a financial asset An instrument is classified as a liability if it is a contractual or financial liability, the cumulative gain or loss is reclassified obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset, or to from equity in the same periods in which the asset or liability exchange financial assets or financial liabilities on potentially affects profit or loss.
Otherwise the cumulative gain or loss is unfavourable terms.
An instrument is classified as equity if it removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss at the same evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after time as the hedged transaction.
Hedge accounting is the deduction of liabilities.
The components of a compound discontinued if the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge financial instrument issued by the Group are classified and accounting: if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, accounted for separately as financial assets, financial liabilities terminated or exercised: if the forecast transaction is no longer or equity as appropriate.
expected to occur: or if hedge designation is revoked.
On the discontinuance of hedge accounting except where a forecast RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 135 Financial statements Accounting policies continued transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in that are reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an profit or loss when the hedged cash flow occurs or, if the applicable standard or interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting forecast transaction results in the recognition of a financial asset Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, or financial liability, in the same periods during which the asset requires management to develop and apply an accounting or liability affects profit or loss.
Where a forecast transaction is policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the no longer expected to occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
similar and related issues and the IASBs Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation where a The judgements and assumptions involved in the Groups foreign currency liability hedges a net investment in a foreign accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the operation, the portion of foreign exchange differences arising most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are on translation of the liability determined to be an effective discussed below.
The use of estimates, assumptions or models hedge is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion is that differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its recognised in profit or loss.
Share-based payments Loan impairment provisions The Group grants options over shares in The Royal Bank of The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to Scotland Group plc to its employees under various share option recognise incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans schemes.
The Group has applied IFRS 2 Share-based Payment classified as loans and receivables and carried at amortised to grants under these schemes after 7 November 2002 that had cost.
A loan is impaired when there is objective evidence that not vested on 1 January 2005.
The expense for these events since the loan was granted have affected expected transactions is measured based on the fair value on the date the cash flows from the loan.
The impairment loss is the difference options are granted.
The fair value is estimated using valuation between the carrying value of the loan and the present value techniques which take into account the options exercise price, its of estimated future cash flows at the loans original effective term, the risk-free interest rate and the expected volatility of the interest rate.
market price of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plcs shares.
Vesting conditions are not taken into account when measuring At 31 December 2006, gross loans and advances to fair value, but are reflected by adjusting the number of options customers totalled 470,826 million 2005 421,110 million included in the measurement of the transaction such that the and customer loan impairment provisions amounted to 3,933 amount recognised reflects the number that actually vest.
value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
There are two components to the Groups loan impairment 19.
Investment property provisions: individual and collective.
Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation Individual component all impaired loans that exceed specific or both.
It is not depreciated but is stated at fair value based on thresholds are individually assessed for impairment.
Individually valuations by independent registered valuers.
Fair value is assessed loans principally comprise the Groups portfolio of based on current prices for similar properties in the same commercial loans to medium and large businesses.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in losses are recognised as the difference between the carrying fair value is recognised in profit or loss.
Rental income from value of the loan and the discounted value of managements investment property is recognised on a straight-line basis over best estimate of future cash repayments and proceeds from the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised any security held.
These estimates take into account the as an integral part of the total rental income.
customers debt capacity and financial flexibility: the level and quality of its earnings: the amount and sources of cash flows: 20.
Cash and cash equivalents the industry in which the counterparty operates: and the Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash and demand realisable value of any security held.
Estimating the quantum deposits with banks together with short-term highly liquid and timing of future recoveries involves significant judgement.
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of The size of receipts will depend on the future performance of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change in value.
the borrower and the value of security, both of which will be affected by future economic conditions: additionally, collateral 21.
Shares in Group entities may not be readily marketable.
The actual amount of future The companys investments in its subsidiaries are stated at cost cash flows and the date they are received may differ from these less any impairment.
estimates and consequently actual losses incurred may differ from those recognised in these financial statements.
Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Collective component this is made up of two elements: loan The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the impairment provisions for impaired loans that are below individual accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie assessment thresholds collective impaired loan provisions the preparation of its financial statements.
UK company law and for loan losses that have been incurred but have not been and IFRS require the directors, in preparing the Groups separately identified at the balance sheet date latent loss financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, provisions.
These are established on a portfolio basis using a 136 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements present value methodology taking into account the level of Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, arrears, security, past loss experience, credit scores and or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant factors an arm's length transaction.
Fair values are determined by in establishing these provisions are the expected loss rates and reference to observable market prices where available and the related average life.
These portfolios include credit card reliable.
Where representative market prices for an instrument receivables and other personal advances including mortgages.
are not available or are unreliable because of poor liquidity, the The future credit quality of these portfolios is subject to fair value is derived from prices for its components using uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ appropriate pricing or valuation models that are based on materially from reported loan impairment provisions.
These independently sourced market parameters, including interest uncertainties include the economic environment, notably interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates.
rates and their effect on customer spending, the unemployment Financial assets carried at fair value include government, asset level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
backed and corporate debt securities, reverse repos, loans, corporate equity shares and derivatives.
Financial liabilities Pensions carried at fair value include deposits, repos, short positions in The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension securities and debt securities issued.
Fair value for a substantial schemes as described in Note 3 on the accounts.
The assets proportion of these instruments is based on observable market of the schemes are measured at their fair value at the balance prices or derived from observable market parameters.
Scheme liabilities are measured using the observable prices are not available, fair value is based on projected unit method, which takes account of projected appropriate valuation techniques or management estimates.
earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the The Groups derivative products include swaps, forwards, scheme liabilities.
These cash flows are discounted at the futures and options.
Exchange traded instruments are valued interest rate applicable to high-quality corporate bonds of the using quoted prices.
The fair value of over-the-counter same currency and term as the liabilities.
Any surplus or deficit instruments is derived from pricing models which take account of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in the balance of contract terms, including maturity, as well as quoted market sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
In determining the parameters such as interest rates and volatilities.
Most of the value of scheme liabilities, assumptions are made as to price Groups pricing models do not entail material subjectivity inflation, dividend growth, pension increases, earnings growth because the methodologies utilised do not incorporate and employees.
There is a range of assumptions that could be significant judgement and the parameters included in the adopted in valuing the schemes liabilities.
Different assumptions models can be calibrated to actively quoted market prices.
could significantly alter the amount of the deficit recognised in Values established from pricing models are adjusted for credit the balance sheet and the pension cost charged to the income risk, liquidity risk and future servicing costs.
The assumptions adopted for the Groups pension schemes are set out in Note 3 on the accounts.
The pension A negligible proportion of the Groups trading derivatives are deficit recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2006 valued directly from quoted prices, the majority being valued was 1,992 million 2005 3,735 million.
The fair value of substantially all securities positions carried at fair value is Fair value determined directly from quoted prices.
Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss and financial Details of financial instruments carried at fair value are given in assets classified as available-for-sale are recognised in the Note 35 on the accounts.
financial statements at fair value.
All derivatives are measured at fair value.
In the balance sheet, financial assets carried at fair General insurance claims value are included within Treasury and other eligible bills, Loans The Group makes provision for the full cost of settling outstanding and advances to banks, Loans and advances to customers, claims arising from its general insurance business at the Debt securities and Equity shares as appropriate.
Financial balance sheet date, including claims estimated to have been liabilities carried at fair value are included within the captions incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims handling Deposits by banks, Customer accounts, Debt securities in issue expenses.
General insurance claims provisions amounted to and Subordinated liabilities.
Derivative assets and Derivative 5,247 million at 31 December 2006 2005 4,913 million.
liabilities are shown separately on the face of the balance sheets.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of Provisions are determined by management based on financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated experience of claims settled and on statistical models which as at fair value through profit or loss are included in the income require certain assumptions to be made regarding the statement.
Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific financial assets are recognised directly in equity unless an factors such as adverse weather conditions.
In order to calculate impairment loss is recognised.
The carrying value of a financial the total provision required, the historical development of asset or a financial liability carried at cost or amortised cost that claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, is the hedged item in a qualifying hedge relationship is within acceptable probability parameters, the value of adjusted by the gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk.
outstanding claims at the balance sheet date.
Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims are other assumptions such as the inflationary factor used for bodily injury claims RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 137 Financial statements Accounting policies continued which is based on historical trends and, therefore, allows for In August 2005, the IASB issued an amendment, Capital some increase due to changes in common law and statute.
Disclosures, to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
Costs for both direct and indirect claims handling expenses are It requires disclosures about an entitys capital and the way also included.
Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for it is managed.
This amendment is also effective for annual in the same accounting period as the direct claims to which they periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007. relate.
The outstanding claims provision is based on information available to management and the eventual outcome may vary The Group is reviewing IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 to from the original assessment.
Actual claims experience may differ determine their effect on its financial reporting.
from the historical pattern on which the estimate is based and the cost of settling individual claims may exceed that assumed.
The International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Goodwill Embedded Derivatives in March 2006.
Entities are required to The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of assess financial instruments for the existence of embedded businesses, as discussed in accounting policy 5.
The carrying derivatives: this interpretation prohibits subsequent value of goodwill as at 31 December 2006 was 17,889 million reassessment unless there is a change of terms that 2005 18,823 million.
significantly changes the terms of the financial instrument.
The interpretation is effective for accounting periods starting on or Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair after 1 June 2006 and is not expected to have a material effect value of its net assets.
The determination of the fair value of on the Group or company.
assets and liabilities of businesses acquired requires the exercise of management judgement: for example those financial assets The IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 10 Interim Financial and liabilities for which there are no quoted prices, and those Reporting and Impairment in July 2006.
Entities recognising an non-financial assets where valuations reflect estimates of impairment of an intangible asset, goodwill or a financial asset market conditions such as property.
Different fair values would in their interim financial statements are not allowed to reverse result in changes to the goodwill arising and to the post-acquisition that impairment if the asset had recovered its value at the next performance of the acquisition.
Goodwill is not amortised but reporting date.
The interpretation is effective for accounting is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006 and is not changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
expected to have a material effect on the Group or company.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a The IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cashShare Transactions in November 2006.
Entities which buy their generating units or groups of cash-generating units expected to own shares, or whose shareholders buy shares in the reporting benefit from the combination.
Goodwill impairment testing entity, in order to provide incentives to employees shall account involves the comparison of the carrying value of a cashfor those incentives on an equity-settled basis.
This principle generating unit or group of cash generating units with its applies also to the accounting by subsidiaries.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the interpretation is effective for annual accounting periods units fair value and its value in use.
Value in use is the present beginning on or after 1 March 2007 and is not expected to value of expected future cash flows from the cash-generating have a material effect on the Group or company.
unit or group of cash-generating units.
Fair value is the amount obtainable for the sale of the cash-generating unit in an arms The IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 12 Service Concession length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties.
Entities providing infrastructure and services to governments under concession Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgmental arrangements shall account for each component of the areas: the preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that arrangement separately.
Infrastructure provided under these are beyond the normal requirements of management reporting: arrangements may be recognised as either a financial asset the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the or an intangible asset.
The interpretation is effective for business: estimation of the fair value of cash-generating units: accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 and is and the valuation of the separable assets of each business not expected to have a material effect on the Group or company.
whose goodwill is being reviewed.
The IASB issued IFRS 8 Operating Segments in December Accounting developments 2006.
This will replace IAS 14 Segment Reporting for International Financial Reporting Standards accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS The IASB issued IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures in 8 is very similar to US Statement of Financial Accounting August 2005.
The standard replaces IAS 30 Disclosures in the Standards No.
131 Disclosures about Segments of an Financial Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Enterprise and Related Information and requires entities to Institutions and the disclosure provisions in IAS 32.
IFRS 7 report segment information as reported to management and requires disclosure of the significance of financial instruments reconcile it to the financial statements.
Disclosures required by for an entitys financial position and performance and of SFAS 131 are included on pages 203 to 207. qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments.
The standard is effective for US GAAP annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
For a discussion of recent developments in US GAAP relevant to the Group, see Note 47 on the accounts.
138 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements
