Taxation for US Holders Taxation of capital gains The following discussion summarises certain US federal and A US Holder that is not resident or, in the case of an UK tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership and individual, ordinarily resident in the UK will not normally be disposition of non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ADSs liable for UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposition of or PROs by a beneficial owner that is a citizen or resident of such holders non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS the United States or that otherwise will be subject to US federal unless at the time of the disposal, in the case of a corporate income tax on a net income basis in respect of the nonUS Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the UK cumulative dollar preference shares, ADSs or PROs a US through a permanent establishment or, in the case of any other Holder.
This summary assumes that a US Holder is holding US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade, profession or non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ADSs or PROs, as vocation in the UK through a UK branch or agency and such applicable, as capital assets.
This summary does not address non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS is or has been the tax consequences to a US Holder i that is resident or, in used, held or acquired by or for the purposes of such trade or the case of an individual, ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax profession or vocation, permanent establishment, branch or purposes or ii generally, that is a corporation which alone or agency.
Special rules apply to individuals who are temporarily together with one or more associated companies, controls, not resident or ordinarily resident in the UK.
directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of the company.
A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of a non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS, generally The statements and practices set forth below regarding US recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes and UK tax laws, including the US UK double taxation assuming that in the case of a redemption, such US Holder convention relating to income and capital gains which entered does not own, and is not deemed to own, any ordinary shares of into force on 31 March 2003 the Treaty, and the US UK the company in an amount equal to the difference between the double taxation convention relating to estate and gift taxes the amount realised excluding in the case of a redemption any Estate Tax Treaty, are based on those laws and practices as amount treated as a dividend for US federal income tax in force and as applied in practice on the date of this Report.
purposes, which will be taxed accordingly and the US Holders This summary is not exhaustive of all possible tax tax basis in the non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS.
considerations and holders are advised to satisfy themselves as to the overall tax consequences, including specifically the A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on gain consequences under US federal, state, local and other laws, recognised on the disposal of a non-cumulative dollar and possible changes in taxation law, of the acquisition, preference share or ADS will generally be entitled, subject to ownership and disposition of non-cumulative dollar preference certain limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US federal shares, ADSs or PROs by consulting their own tax advisers.
income tax liability in respect of such gain.
For the purposes of the Treaty, the Estate Tax Treaty and the If a corporate US Holder is subject to UK corporation tax by US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the Code, reason of carrying on a trade in the UK through a permanent US Holders of ADSs will be treated as owners of the nonestablishment and its non-cumulative dollar preference share cumulative dollar preference shares underlying such ADSs.
or ADS is, or has been, used, held or acquired for the purposes of that permanent establishment, certain provisions Preference shares or ADSs introduced by the Finance No.
2 Act 2005 will apply if the US Taxation of dividends Holder holds its non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS The company is not required to withhold tax at source from for a tax avoidance purpose.
If these provisions apply, dividend payments it makes or from any amount including any dividends on the non-cumulative dollar preference share or amounts in respect of accrued dividends distributed by the ADS, as well as certain fair value credits and debits arising in company.
respect of such share or ADS, will be brought within the charge to UK corporation tax on income and the UK tax Dividends paid by the company will constitute foreign source position outlined in the preceding paragraphs will not apply in dividend income for US federal income tax purposes to the relation to such US Holder.
extent paid out of the current or accumulated earnings and profits of the company, as determined for US federal income Estate and gift tax tax purposes.
Payments will not be eligible for the dividendsSubject to the discussion of the Estate Tax Treaty in the next received deduction allowed to corporate US Holders.
paragraph, non-cumulative dollar preference shares or ADSs beneficially owned by an individual may be subject to UK Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon inheritance tax subject to exemptions and reliefs on the death a holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain of the individual or in certain circumstances, if the non-cumulative non-corporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before dollar preference shares or ADSs are the subject of a gift 1 January 2011 will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
including a transfer at less than market value by such Non-corporate US Holders should consult their own tax individual.
Inheritance tax is not generally chargeable on gifts advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special to individuals made more than seven years before the death of rules that limit their ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
Non-cumulative dollar preference shares or ADSs held by the trustees of a settlement will also be subject to UK inheritance tax.
Special rules apply to such settlements.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 257 Shareholder information Shareholder information continued Taxation for US Holders continued to own, any ordinary shares of the company in an amount A non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS beneficially equal to the difference between the amount realised excluding owned by an individual, whose domicile is determined to be any amount in respect of mandatory interest and any missed the United States for purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty and payments which are to be satisfied on a missed payment who is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK satisfaction date, which would be treated as ordinary income inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a lifetime transfer and the US Holders tax basis in the PRO.
of the non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS, except in certain cases where the non-cumulative dollar preference A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on gain share or ADS i is comprised in a settlement unless, at the recognised on the disposal of PROs will generally be entitled, time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United subject to certain limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US States and was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the federal income tax liability in respect of such gain.
business property of a UK permanent establishment of an enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual United Kingdom used for the performance of independent personal services.
Taxation of payments on the PROs The Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit against US Payments on the PROs will constitute interest rather than federal estate or gift tax liability for the amount of any tax paid dividends for UK withholding tax purposes.
However, the PROs in the UK in a case where the non-cumulative dollar preference will constitute quoted eurobonds within the meaning of section share or ADS is subject to both UK inheritance tax and US 349 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and therefore federal estate or gift tax.
payments of interest will not be subject to withholding or deduction for or on account of UK taxation as long as the PROs UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax SDRT remain at all times listed on a recognised stock exchange within The following is a summary of the UK stamp duty and SDRT the meaning of section 841 of the Income and Corporation Taxes consequences of transferring an ADS or ADR in registered Act 1988.
In all other cases, an amount must be withheld on form otherwise than to the custodian on cancellation of the account of UK income tax at the lower rate currently 20% ADS or of transferring a non-cumulative dollar preference subject to any direction to the contrary by HM Revenue & share.
A transfer of a registered ADS or ADR executed and Customs under the Treaty and except that the withholding retained in the United States will not give rise to stamp duty and obligation is disapplied in respect of payments to persons who an agreement to transfer a registered ADS or ADR will not give the company reasonably believes are within the charge to rise to SDRT.
Stamp duty or SDRT will normally be payable on corporation tax or fall within various categories enjoying a special or in respect of transfers of non-cumulative dollar preference tax status including charities and pension funds, or are shares and accordingly any holder who acquires or intends to partnerships consisting of such persons unless HM Revenue & acquire non-cumulative dollar preference shares is advised to Customs directs otherwise.
Where interest has been paid under consult its own tax advisers in relation to stamp duty and SDRT.
deduction of UK withholding tax, US Holders may be able to recover the tax deducted under the Treaty.
PROs United States Any paying agent or other person by or through whom interest Payments of interest on a PRO including any UK withholding is paid to, or by whom interest is received on behalf of, an tax, as to which see below will constitute foreign source individual, may be required to provide information in relation to dividend income for US federal income tax purposes to the the payment and the individual concerned to HM Revenue & extent paid out of the current or accumulated earnings and Customs.
HM Revenue & Customs may communicate this profits of the company, as determined for US federal income information to the tax authorities of other jurisdictions.
Payments will not be eligible for the dividendsreceived deduction allowed to corporate US Holders.
A US HM Revenue & Customs confirmed at around the time of the Holder who is entitled under the Treaty to a refund of UK tax, issue of the PROs that interest payments would not be treated if any, withheld on a payment will not be entitled to claim a as distributions for UK tax purposes by reason of i the fact foreign tax credit with respect to such tax.
that interest may be deferred under the terms of issue: or ii the undated nature of the PROs, provided that at the time Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon an interest payment is made, the PROs are not held by a a holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain company which is associated with the company or by a non-corporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before 1 funded company.
A company will be associated with the January 2011 will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
company if, broadly speaking, it is part of the same group as Non-corporate US Holders should consult their own tax the company.
A company will be a funded company for these advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special purposes if there are arrangements involving that company rules that limit their ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
being put in funds directly or indirectly by the company, or an entity associated with the company.
In this respect, HM A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of a Revenue & Customs has confirmed that a company holding an PRO, generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal interest in the PROs which incidentally has banking facilities income tax purposes assuming that in the case of a with any company associated with the company will not be a redemption, such US Holder does not own, and is not deemed funded company by virtue of such facilities.
258 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Shareholder information
