Notes on the accounts continued 44 Transactions with directors, officers and others a At 31 December 2006, the amounts outstanding in relation b For the purposes of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, to transactions, arrangements and agreements entered key management comprise directors of the company and into by authorised institutions in the Group, as defined in members of the Group Executive Management UK legislation, were 284,031 in respect of loans to eight Committee.
The captions in the Groups primary financial persons who were directors of the company or persons statements include the following amounts attributable, in connected with them at any time during the financial aggregate, to key management: period and 1,234 to one person who was an officer of the company at any time during the financial period.
2006 2005 000 000 Loans and advances to customers 2,188 3,090 Customer accounts 18,575 12,604 Key management have banking relationships with Group entities which are entered into in the normal course of business.
Key management had no reportable transactions or balances with the company except for dividends.
45 Related parties a Group companies provide development and other types of c In accordance with IAS 24, transactions or balances capital support to businesses in their roles as providers of between Group entities that have been eliminated on finance.
These investments are made in the normal course consolidation are not reported.
of business and on arms-length terms.
In some instances, the investment may extend to ownership or control over d The captions in the primary financial statements of the 20% or more of the voting rights of the investee company.
parent company include amounts attributable to However, these investments are not considered to give rise subsidiaries.
These amounts have been disclosed in to transactions of a materiality requiring disclosure under aggregate in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
IAS 24. b The Group recharges The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund with the cost of administration services incurred by it.
The amounts involved are not material to the Group.
208 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements
