2 This column shows the amount by which exposures to counterparties are reduced by the existence of a legal right of set-off on the basis that the financial asset will be collected in accordance with its terms and under master netting arrangements.
The credit risk of financial assets subject to a master netting arrangement is eliminated only to the extent that financial liabilities due to the same counterparty will be settled after the assets are realised.
The extent to which the Group's credit risk is reduced through a master netting arrangement may change substantially within a short period following the balance sheet date because the exposure is affected by each transaction subject to the arrangement.
36 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities and commitments The amounts shown in the table below are intended only to provide an indication of the volume of business outstanding at 31 December.
Although the Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance of the obligations undertaken by customers, the amounts shown do not, and are not intended to, provide any indication of the Groups expectation of future losses.
Group Company 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Contingent liabilities: Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 13,013 12,253 397 448 Other contingent liabilities 6,833 6,394 19,846 18,647 397 448 Commitments: Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend less than one year 133,673 121,911 one year and over 101,913 81,110 Other commitments 2,402 3,529 237,988 206,550 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 199 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 36 Memorandum items continued Banking commitments and contingent obligations, which have Litigation been entered into on behalf of customers and for which there Proceedings, including a consolidated class action, have been are corresponding obligations from customers, are not included brought in the United States against a large number of in assets and liabilities.
The Groups maximum exposure to defendants, including the Group, following the collapse of credit loss, in the event of non-performance by the other party Enron.
The claims against the Group could be significant but and where all counterclaims, collateral or security proves are largely unquantified.
The Group considers that it has valueless, is represented by the contractual nominal amount substantial and credible legal and factual defences to these of these instruments included in the table.
These commitments claims and it continues to defend them vigorously.
A court and contingent obligations are subject to the Groups normal ordered mediation commenced in September 2003 but no credit approval processes and any potential loss is taken into material progress has been made towards a resolution of the account in assessing provisions for bad and doubtful debts in claims, although a number of other defendants have reached accordance with the Groups provisioning policy.
settlements in the principal class action.
The Group is unable reliably to estimate the possible loss in relation to these matters Contingent liabilities or the effect that the possible loss might have on the Groups Guarantees the Group gives guarantees on behalf of consolidated net assets or its operating results or cash flows customers.
A financial guarantee represents an irrevocable in any particular period.
In addition, pursuant to requests undertaking that the Group will meet a customers obligations received from the US Securities and Exchange Commission to third parties if the customer fails to do so.
The maximum and the Department of Justice, the Group has provided amount that the Group could be required to pay under a copies of Enron-related materials to these authorities and guarantee is its principal amount as disclosed in the table above.
has co-operated fully with them.
The Group expects most guarantees it provides to expire unused.
Members of the Group are engaged in other litigation in the Other contingent liabilities these include standby letters of United Kingdom and a number of overseas jurisdictions, credit, supporting customer debt issues and contingent including the United States, involving claims by and against liabilities relating to customer trading activities such as those them arising in the ordinary course of business.
The Group has arising from performance and customs bonds, warranties and reviewed these other actual, threatened and known potential indemnities.
claims and proceedings and, after consulting with its legal advisers, is satisfied that the outcome of these other claims Commitments and proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on Commitments to lend under a loan commitment the Group its consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows agrees to make funds available to a customer in the future.
Loan commitments, which are usually for a specified term may be unconditionally cancellable or may persist, provided all Trustee and other fiduciary activities conditions in the loan facility are satisfied or waived.
In its capacity as trustee or other fiduciary role, the Group Commitments to lend include commercial standby facilities and may hold or place assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, credit lines, liquidity facilities to commercial paper conduits companies, pension schemes and others.
The assets and their and unutilised overdraft facilities.
income are not included in the Groups financial statements.
Other commitments these include forward asset purchases, forward deposits placed and undrawn note issuance and revolving underwriting facilities, documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions.
Regulatory enquiries and investigations in the normal course of business the Group and its subsidiaries co-operate with regulatory authorities in various jurisdictions in their enquiries or investigations into alleged or possible breaches of regulations.
Additional contingent liabilities arise in the normal course of the Groups business.
It is not anticipated that any material loss will arise from these transactions.
200 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements
