Notes on the accounts continued 34 Risk management All credit exposures, once approved, are effectively Financial risk management policies and objectives monitored and managed and reviewed periodically against The Board establishes the overall governance framework for approved limits.
Lower quality exposures are subject to a risk management and sets the risk appetite and philosophy for greater frequency of analysis and assessment.
Customers with emerging credit problems are identified The principal financial risks that the Group manages are early and classified accordingly.
Remedial actions as follows: are implemented promptly to minimise the potential loss to the Group.
Credit risk: is the risk arising from the possibility that the Group will incur losses from the failure of customers to meet Portfolio analysis and reporting is used to identify their obligations.
and manage credit risk concentrations and credit risk quality migration.
Liquidity risk: is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations as they fall due.
Credit approval process Different credit approval processes exist for each customer Market risk: the Group is exposed to market risk because of type in order to ensure appropriate skills and resources are positions held in its trading portfolios and its non-trading employed in credit assessment and approval.
is not extended to relationship management.
Insurance risk: the Group is exposed to insurance risk, either Credit risk models directly through its businesses or through using insurance as Credit risk models are used throughout the Group to support a tool to mitigate other risk exposures.
the analytical elements of the credit risk management framework, in particular the risk assessment part of the credit approval Credit risk process, ongoing monitoring as well as portfolio analysis and The objective of credit risk management is to enable the Group reporting.
Credit risk models used by the Group can be to achieve appropriate risk versus reward performance broadly grouped into four categories.
whilst maintaining credit risk exposure in line with approved risk appetite.
Probability of default PD customer credit grade these models assess the probability that the customer will fail to The key principles for credit risk management as defined in the make full and timely repayment of credit obligations over a Groups Credit Risk Management Framework are set out below.
Each customer is assigned an internal credit grade which corresponds to a probability of Approval of all credit exposure is granted prior to any default.
There are a number of different credit grading advance or extension of credit.
models in use across the Group, each of which considers particular characteristics of customer types in that portfolio.
An appropriate credit risk assessment of the customer and The credit grading models use a combination of quantitative credit facilities is undertaken prior to approval of credit inputs, such as recent financial performance and customer exposure.
This includes a review of, amongst other things, behaviour, and qualitative inputs, such as company the purpose of the credit and sources of repayment, management performance or sector outlook.
compliance with affordability tests, repayment history, capacity to repay, sensitivity to economic and market Every customer credit grade across all grading scales in the developments and risk-adjusted return.
Group can be mapped to a Group level credit grade which uses a five band scale from AQ1 to AQ5.
The Board delegates authority to Advances Committee, Group Credit Committee and divisional credit committees.
Exposure at default EAD these models estimate the expected level of utilisation of a credit facility at the time of Credit risk authority must be specifically granted in writing to a borrowers default.
The EAD will typically be higher than all individuals involved in the granting of credit approval, the current utilisation e. g. in the case where further whether this is exercised personally or collectively as part of drawings are made on a revolving credit facility prior to a credit committee.
In exercising credit authority, the default but will not normally exceed the total facility limit.
The methodologies used in EAD modelling recognise that customers may make more use of their existing credit Where credit authority is exercised personally, the individual facilities in the run up to a default.
has no responsibility or accountability for related business revenue origination.
180 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements Loss given default LGD these models estimate the Individually assessed provisions are the provisions required for economic loss that may be suffered by the Group on a credit individually significant impaired assets which are assessed on a facility in the event of default.
The LGD of a facility represents case-by-case basis, taking into account the financial condition the amount of debt which cannot be recovered and is of the counterparty and any guarantor.
This incorporates an typically expressed as a percentage of the EAD.
The Groups estimate of the discounted value of any recoveries and LGD models take into account the type of borrower, facility realisation of security or collateral.
The asset continues to be and any risk mitigation such as security or collateral held.
The assessed on an individual basis until it is repaid in full, LGD may also be affected by the industry sector of the transferred to the performing portfolio or written-off.
borrower, the legal jurisdiction in which the borrower operates as well as general economic conditions which may impact the Collectively assessed provisions are the provisions on impaired value of any assets held as security.
credits below an agreed threshold which are assessed on a portfolio basis, to reflect the homogeneous nature of the assets, Credit risk exposure measurement these models calculate such as credit cards or personal loans.
The provision is the credit risk exposure for products where the exposure is determined from a quantitative review of the relevant portfolio, not 100% of the gross nominal amount of the credit taking account of the level of arrears, security and average obligation.
These models are most commonly used for loss experience over the recovery period.
derivative and other traded instruments where the amount of credit risk exposure may be dependent on external variables Latent loss provisions are the provisions held against the such as interest rates or foreign exchange rates.
estimated impairment in the performing portfolio which has yet to be identified as at the balance sheet date.
To assess the Credit risk assets latent loss within the portfolio, the Group has developed Credit risk assets are an internal risk measure of the Groups methodologies to estimate the time that an asset can remain exposure to customers.
These consist of loans and advances impaired within a performing portfolio before it is identified and including overdraft facilities, instalment credit, finance lease reported as such.
receivables, debt securities and other traded instruments.
Liquidity risk Credit risk asset quality Liquidity management within the Group focuses on both overall Internal reporting and oversight of risk assets is principally balance sheet structure and the control, within prudent limits, differentiated by credit ratings.
Internal ratings are used to of risk arising from the mismatch of maturities across the balance assess the credit quality of borrowers.
Customers are sheet and from undrawn commitments and other contingent assigned credit ratings, based on various credit grading obligations.
It is undertaken within limits and other policy models that reflect the probability of default.
All credit ratings parameters set by Group Asset and Liability Management across the Group map to a Group level asset quality scale.
Provision analysis The structure of the Groups balance sheet is managed to The Groups consumer portfolios, which consist of small value, maintain substantial diversification, to minimise concentration high volume credits, have highly efficient, largely automated across its various deposit sources, and to contain the level of processes for identifying problem credits and very short reliance on total short-term wholesale sources of funds within timescales, typically three months, before resolution or prudent levels.
adoption of various recovery methods.
The degree of maturity mismatch within the overall long-term Corporate portfolios consist of higher value, lower volume structure of the Groups assets and liabilities is managed within credits, which tend to be structured to meet individual internal policy guidelines, to ensure that term asset commitments customer requirements.
Provisions are assessed on a case by may be funded on an economic basis over their life.
managing its overall term structure, the Group analyses and takes into account the effect of retail and corporate customer Early and active management of problem exposures ensures behaviour on actual asset and liability maturities where they that credit losses are minimised.
Specialised units are used for differ materially from the underlying contractual maturities.
different customer types to ensure that appropriate risk The short-term maturity structure of the Groups liabilities and mitigation is taken in a timely manner.
assets is managed on a daily basis to ensure that all material cash flow obligations, and potential cash flows arising from Portfolio provisions are reassessed regularly as part of the undrawn commitments and other contingent obligations, can Groups ongoing monitoring process.
be met as they arise from day to day, either from cash inflows from maturing assets, new borrowing or the sale or repurchase Provisions methodology of debt securities held.
Provisions for impairment losses are assessed under three categories as described below: RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 181 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 34 Risk management continued Short-term liquidity risk is managed on a consolidated basis for The Groups VaR should be interpreted in light of the limitations the whole Group including the Greenwich companies but of the methodology used.
These limitations include: excluding the activities of Citizens and insurance businesses, which are subject to regulatory regimes that necessitate local Historical data may not provide the best estimate of the joint management of liquidity.
distribution of risk factor changes in the future and may fail to capture the risk of possible extreme adverse market Internal liquidity mismatch limits are set for all other subsidiaries movements which have not occurred in the historical window and non-UK branches which have material local treasury used in the calculations.
activities in external markets, to ensure those activities do not compromise daily maintenance of the Groups overall liquidity VaR using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the risk position within the Groups policy parameters.
market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day.
The level of large deposits taken from banks, corporate customers, non-bank financial institutions and other customers VaR using a 95% confidence level does not reflect the extent and significant cash outflows therefrom are also reviewed to of potential losses beyond that percentile.
monitor concentration and identify any adverse trends.
The Group largely computes the VaR of trading portfolios at Market risk the close of business and positions may change substantially Market risk is defined as the risk of loss as a result of adverse during the course of the trading day.
Controls are in place to changes in risk factors including interest rates, foreign limit the Groups intra-day exposure: such as the calculation of currency and equity prices together with related parameters the VaR for selected portfolios.
These limitations and the nature such as market volatilities.
of the VaR measure mean that the Group cannot guarantee that losses will not exceed the VaR amounts indicated.
The Group is exposed to market risk because of positions held in its trading portfolios as well as its non-trading business Trading including the Groups treasury operations.
The principal focus of the Groups trading activities is client facilitation providing products to the Groups client base at Value-at-risk VaR competitive prices.
The Group also undertakes: market making VaR is a technique that produces estimates of the potential quoting firm bid buy and offer sell prices with the intention negative change in the market value of a portfolio over a of profiting from the spread between the quotes: arbitrage specified time horizon at given confidence levels.
For internal entering into offsetting positions in different but closely related risk management purposes, the Groups VaR assumes a time markets in order to profit from market imperfections: and horizon of one day and a confidence level of 95%.
The Group proprietary activity taking positions in financial instruments as uses historical simulation models in computing VaR.
This principal in order to take advantage of anticipated market approach, in common with many other VaR models, assumes conditions.
The main risk factors are interest rates, credit that risk factor changes observed in the past are a good estimate spreads and foreign exchange.
Financial instruments held in of those likely to occur in the future and is, therefore, limited by the Groups trading portfolios include, but are not limited to, the relevance of the historical data used.
The Groups method, debt securities, loans, deposits, securities sale and repurchase however, does not make any assumption about the nature or agreements and derivative financial instruments futures, type of underlying loss distribution.
The Group typically uses forwards, swaps and options.
For a discussion of the Groups the previous 500 trading days market data.
accounting policies for derivative financial instruments, see Accounting policies on pages 135 and 136.
The VaR for the Groups trading portfolios segregated by type of market risk exposure, including idiosyncratic risk, is presented in the table below.
2006 2005 Average Period end Maximum Minimum Average Period end Maximum Minimum Trading m m m m m m m m Interest rate 8.7 10.2 15.0 5.7 7.3 7.4 10.9 5.1 Credit spread 13.2 14.1 15.7 10.4 11.4 11.8 14.4 8.8 Currency 2.2 2.5 3.5 1.0 1.8 1.4 10.7 0.5 Equity and commodity 1.4 1.6 4.3 0.6 0.5 0.7 1.1 0.2 Diversification 12.8 8.5 Total trading VaR 14.2 15.6 18.9 10.4 13.0 12.8 16.5 9.9 182 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements Non-trading A static maturity gap report is produced as at the month-end The principal market risks arising from the Groups non-trading for each division, in each functional currency based on the activities are interest rate risk, currency risk and equity risk.
behaviouralised repricing for each product.
It is Group policy Treasury activity and mismatches between the repricing of assets to include in the gap report, non-financial assets and liabilities, and liabilities in its retail and commercial banking operations mainly property, plant and equipment and the Groups capital account for most of the non-trading interest rate risk.
Nonand reserves, spread over medium and longer term maturities.
trading currency risk derives from the Groups investments in This report also includes hedge transactions, principally derivatives.
overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches.
The Groups venture capital portfolio and investments held by its general Any residual non-trading interest rate exposures are controlled insurance business are the principal sources of non-trading by limiting repricing mismatches in the individual balance equity price risk.
The Groups portfolios of non-trading financial sheets.
Potential exposures to interest rate movements in the instruments mainly comprise loans including finance leases, medium to long term are measured and controlled using a debt securities, equity shares, deposits, certificates of deposit version of the same VaR methodology that is used for the and other debt securities issued, loan capital and derivatives.
Groups trading portfolios but without discount factors.
Net To reflect their distinct nature, the Groups long-term assurance accrual income exposures are measured and controlled in assets and liabilities attributable to policyholders have been terms of sensitivity over time to movements in interest rates.
excluded from these market risk disclosures.
Risk is managed within limits approved by GALCO through the Interest rate risk execution of cash and derivative instruments.
Execution of the Non-trading interest rate risk arises from the Groups treasury hedging is carried out by the relevant division through the activities and retail and commercial banking businesses.
The residual risk position is reported to divisional asset and liability committees, GALCO and Board.
Treasury The Groups treasury activities include its money market Currency risk business and the management of internal funds flow within the The Group does not maintain material non-trading open Groups businesses.
Money market portfolios include cash currency positions other than the structural foreign currency instruments principally debt securities, loans and deposits translation exposures arising from its investments in foreign and related hedging derivatives.
subsidiaries and associated undertakings and their related currency funding.
The Groups policy in relation to structural Retail and commercial banking positions is to match fund the structural foreign currency Non-trading interest rate risk is calculated in each business on exposure arising from net asset value, including goodwill, in the basis of establishing the repricing behaviour of each asset, foreign subsidiaries, equity accounted investments and liability and off-balance sheet product.
For many products, the branches, except where doing so would materially increase the actual interest rate repricing characteristics differ from the sensitivity of either the Groups or the subsidiarys regulatory contractual repricing.
In most cases, the repricing maturity is capital ratios to currency movements.
The policy requires determined by the market interest rate that most closely fits the structural foreign exchange positions to be reviewed regularly historical behaviour of the product interest rate.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the bearing current accounts, the repricing maturity is determined translation of foreign operations are recognised directly in by the stability of the portfolio.
The repricing maturities used equity together with the effective portion of foreign exchange are approved by Group Treasury and divisional asset and differences arising on hedging liabilities.
liability committees at least annually.
Key conventions are reviewed annually by GALCO.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 183 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 34 Risk management continued The tables below set out the Groups structural foreign currency exposures.
Foreign currency Structural Net investments borrowings foreign in foreign hedging net currency operations investments exposures 2006 m m m US dollar 15,036 5,278 9,758 Euro 3,059 1,696 1,363 Swiss franc 462 457 5 Chinese RMB 3,013 3,013 Other non-sterling 132 107 25 21,702 7,538 14,164 2005 US dollar 15,452 6,637 8,815 Euro 2,285 139 2,146 Swiss franc 431 430 1 Chinese RMB 914 914 Other non-sterling 76 72 4 19,158 7,278 11,880 The exposure in Chinese RMB arises from the Groups strategic investment in Bank of China.
Equity risk Claims management risk Non-trading equity risk arises principally from the Groups The risk that claims are handled or paid inappropriately is strategic investments, its venture capital activities and its general managed using a range of IT system controls and manual insurance business.
processes conducted by experienced staff.
These, together with a range of detailed policies and procedures ensure that VaR is not an appropriate risk measure for the Groups venture all claims are handled in a timely, appropriate and accurate capital investments, which comprise a mix of quoted and manner.
unquoted investments, or its portfolio of strategic investments.
These investments are carried at fair value with changes in fair Reinsurance risk value recorded in profit or loss, or equity.
Reinsurance is used to protect against the impact of major catastrophic events or unforeseen volumes of, or adverse Insurance risk trends in, large individual claims and to transfer risk that is The Group is exposed to insurance risk, either directly through outside the Groups current risk appetite.
its businesses or through using insurance as a tool to reduce other risk exposures.
Reinsurance of risks above the Groups risk appetite is only effective if the reinsurance premium makes economic sense and Insurance risk is the risk of fluctuations in the timing, frequency the counterparty is financially secure.
Acceptable reinsurers are or severity of insured events, relative to the expectations of the rated Aor better unless specifically authorised.
Group at the time of underwriting.
Underwriting and pricing risk The Group manages underwriting and pricing risk through the use of underwriting guidelines which detail the class, nature and type of business that may be accepted: pricing policies by product line and by brand: and centralised control of policy wordings and any subsequent changes.
184 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements Reserving risk Reserving risk relates to both premiums and claims.
It is the risk that reserves are assessed incorrectly such that insufficient funds have been retained to pay or handle claims as the amounts fall due.
Claims development data provides information on the historical pattern of reserving risk.
Accident year 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Total Insurance claims gross m m m m m m m Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 2,395 3,013 3,658 3,710 4,265 4,269 21,310 One year later 70 91 140 186 92 397 Two years later 20 1 106 88 173 Three years later 12 12 55 55 Four years later 40 17 57 Five years later 1 1 Current estimate of cumulative claims 2,316 3,076 3,357 3,436 4,173 4,269 20,627 Cumulative payments to date 2,189 2,805 2,853 2,707 3,093 1,962 15,609 127 271 504 729 1,080 2,307 5,018 Liability in respect of prior years 126 Claims handling costs 103 Gross general insurance claims liability 5,247 Accident year 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Total Insurance claims net of reinsurance m m m m m m m Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 2,011 2,584 3,215 3,514 4,168 4,215 19,707 One year later 61 59 106 168 67 343 Two years later 22 12 103 90 183 Three years later 13 3 53 43 Four years later 41 21 62 Five years later 1 1 Current estimate of cumulative claims 1,945 2,607 2,953 3,256 4,101 4,215 19,077 Cumulative payments to date 1,841 2,412 2,520 2,584 3,021 1,925 14,303 104 195 433 672 1,080 2,290 4,774 Liability in respect of prior years 79 Claims handling costs 103 Net general insurance claims liability 4,956 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 185 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 34 Risk management continued Claims reserves facilitates the generation of comprehensive underwriting and It is the Groups policy to hold undiscounted claims reserves claims data, which are used to accurately price and monitor including reserves to cover claims which have been incurred the risks accepted.
but not reported IBNR reserves for all classes at a sufficient level to meet all liabilities as they fall due.
The following table indicates the diversity of risks underwritten and the corresponding loss ratios for each major class of The Groups focus is on high volume and relatively business, gross and net of reinsurance.
straightforward products, for example home and motor.
Frequency and severity of specific risks and The major source of uncertainty in the Groups property sources of uncertainty accounts is the volatility of weather.
Weather in the UK can Most general insurance contracts written by the Group are affect most of the above perils.
Over a longer period, the issued on an annual basis, which means that the Groups strength of the economy is also a factor.
liability extends for a 12 month period, after which the Group is entitled to decline or renew or can impose renewal terms by c Other commercial insurance contracts amending the premium, terms and conditions, or both.
Other commercial claims come mainly from business interruption and loss arising from the negligence of the insured The following paragraphs explain the frequency and severity of liability insurance.
Business interruption losses come from claims and the sources of uncertainty for the key classes that the loss of income, revenue and or profit as a result of the Group is exposed to: property damage claims.
Liability insurance includes employers liability and public products liability.
Liability a Motor insurance contracts personal and commercial insurance is written on an occurrence basis, and is subject Claims experience is quite variable, due to a wide range to claims that are identified over a substantial period of time, of factors, but the principal ones are age, sex and driving but where the loss event occurred during the life of the policy.
experience of the driver, type and nature of vehicle, use of vehicle and area.
Fluctuations in the social and economic climate are a source of uncertainty in the Groups business interruption and general There are many sources of uncertainty that will affect the liability accounts.
Other sources of uncertainty are changes Groups experience under motor insurance, including in the law, or its interpretation, and reserving risk.
Other operational risk, reserving risk, premium rates not matching uncertainties are significant events for example terrorist claims inflation rates, the weather, the social, economic and attacks and any emerging new heads of damage or types legislative environment and reinsurance failure risk.
of claim that are not envisaged when the policy is written.
b Property insurance contracts residential and commercial The major causes of claims for property insurance are theft, flood, escape of water, fire, storm, subsidence and various types of accidental damage.
186 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements Life business contracts with minimum guaranteed death benefits that expose The Groups three regulated life companies, National it to the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments Westminster Life Assurance Limited, Royal Scottish Assurance may increase the Groups net exposure to death risk.
plc RSA and Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited, are required to meet minimum capital requirements at all times The Groups long-term assurance contracts include whole-life, under the Financial Service Authoritys Prudential Sourcebook.
term assurance, endowment assurances, flexible whole life, The capital resources covering the regulatory requirement are pension and annuity contracts that are expected to remain in not transferable to other areas of the Group.
To ensure that the force for an extended period of time.
capital requirement is satisfied at all times, each company holds an additional voluntary buffer above the regulatory Contracts under which the Group does not accept significant minimum.
insurance risk are classified as investment contracts.
Long term business provisions are calculated in accordance with The Group is not exposed to price, currency, credit, or interest FRS 27 Life Assurance.
risk on unit linked life contracts but it is exposed to variation in management fees.
A decrease of 10% in the value of the Estimations assumptions including future mortality, morbidity, assets would reduce the asset management fees by 5 million persistency and levels of expenses are made in calculating per annum 2005 5 million.
The Group also writes insurance actuarial reserves.
Key metrics include: Assumptions 2006 2005 2004 Valuation interest rate Term assurance 3.00% 2.85% 3.00% Sterling interest 3.00% 2.85% 3.00% Unit growth 3.50% 2.85% 3.00% Expense inflation 4.00% 4.00% 4.00% Sample mortality rates, expressed as deaths per million per annum, for term assurance products age 40.
Mortality Male non-smoker 517 470 497 Male smoker 983 893 946 Female non-smoker 278 253 270 Female smoker 618 563 599 Expenses: 2006 2005 2004 Pre-2000 products RSA per annum per annum per annum Lifestyle protection plan 28.96 29.81 27.17 Mortgage savings plan 65.15 67.05 60.08 Pre-2000 products NatWest Life Term assurances 26.01 26.79 25.13 Single premium unit-linked bonds 23.17 23.86 22.38 Post-2000 products Term assurances 23.16 23.97 22.38 Guaranteed bonds 25.71 26.92 25.13 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 187 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 34 Risk management continued Frequency and severity of claims for contracts where death For contracts with fixed and guaranteed benefits and fixed is the insured risk, the most significant factors that could future premiums, there are no mitigating terms and conditions increase the overall frequency of claims are epidemics or that reduce the insurance risk accepted.
Participating widespread changes in lifestyle, resulting in earlier or more contracts can result in a significant portion of the insurance claims than expected.
risk being shared with the insured party.
For contracts where survival is the insured risk, the most Sources of uncertainty in the estimation of future benefit significant factor is continued improvement in medical science payments and premium receipts the Group uses base tables and social conditions that would increase longevity.
of standard mortality appropriate to the type of contract being written and the territory in which the insured person resides.
These are adjusted to reflect the Groups experience, mortality improvements and voluntary termination behaviour.
Sensitivity factor Description of sensitivity factor applied Interest rate and investment return Change in market interest rates of 1%.
The test allows consistently for similar changes to investment returns and movements in the market value of backing fixed interest securities.
Expenses Increase in maintenance expenses of 10% Assurance mortality morbidity Increase in mortality morbidity rates for assurance contracts of 5% Annuitant mortality Reduction in mortality rates for annuity contracts of 5% The above sensitivity factors are applied via actuarial and statistical models, with the following impact on the financial statements.
Impact on profit and equity 2006 2005 Risk factor Variability m m Interest rates 1% 19 16 Interest rates 1% 23 20 Expenses 10% 5 5 Assurance mortality morbidity 5% 6 7 Annuitant mortality 5% Limitations of sensitivity analysis: the above tables demonstrate non-linear, and larger or smaller impacts should not be the effect of a change in a key assumption whilst other interpolated or extrapolated from these results.
The sensitivity assumptions remain unaffected.
In reality, such an occurrence analyses do not take into consideration that assets and is unlikely, due to correlation between the assumptions and liabilities are actively managed and may vary at the time that other factors.
It should also be noted that these sensitivities are any actual market movement occurs.
188 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial statements
