Interest on the PROs constitutes UK source income for UK tax less than market value by, or on the death of, such US Holder.
purposes and, as such, may be subject to income tax by Inheritance tax is not generally chargeable on gifts to direct assessment even where paid without withholding.
individuals made more than seven years before the death of However, interest with a UK source received without deduction the donor.
However, exemption from, or a reduction of, any or withholding on account of UK tax will not be chargeable to such UK tax liability may be available under the Estate Tax UK tax in the hands of a US Holder unless, in the case of a Treaty see below.
US Holders should consult their corporate US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the professional advisers in relation to such potential liability.
UK through a UK permanent establishment or in the case of other US Holders, such persons carry on a trade, profession or PROs beneficially owned by an individual, whose domicile is vocation in the UK through a UK branch or agency in determined to be the United States for the purposes of the connection with which the interest is received or to which the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not a national of the UK, will not PROs are attributable.
There are exemptions for interest be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on received by certain categories of agents such as some a lifetime transfer of the PRO, except in certain cases where brokers and investment managers.
the PRO i is comprised in a settlement unless, at the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United States EU Directive on taxation of savings income and was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the business The European Union has adopted a directive regarding the property of a UK permanent establishment of an enterprise: or taxation of savings income.
The Directive requires member iii pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the states of the European Union to provide to the tax authorities of performance of independent personal services.
The Estate Tax other member states details of payments of interest and other Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal estate or similar income paid by a person to an individual resident in gift tax liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a another member state, except that Belgium, Luxembourg and case where the PRO is subject to both UK inheritance tax and Austria are instead imposing a withholding system for a US federal estate or gift tax.
transitional period unless during such period they elect otherwise.
Stamp duty and SDRT No stamp duty, SDRT or similar tax is imposed in the UK on the Disposal including redemption issue, transfer or redemption of the PROs.
A disposal including redemption of PROs by a non-corporate US Holder will not give rise to any liability to UK taxation on capital Exchange controls gains unless the US Holder carries on a trade which for this The company has been advised that there are currently no UK purpose includes a profession or a vocation in the UK through laws, decrees or regulations which would prevent the import or a branch or agency and the PROs are, or have been, held or export of capital, including the availability of cash or cash acquired for the purposes of that trade, branch or agency.
equivalents for use by the Group, or the remittance of dividends or other payments to non-UK resident holders of the companys A transfer of PROs by a US Holder will not give rise to a charge non-cumulative dollar preference shares.
to UK tax on accrued but unpaid interest payments, unless the US Holder is an individual or other non-corporate taxpayer and There are no restrictions under the articles of association of at any time in the relevant year of assessment or accounting the company or under UK law, as currently in effect, which limit period carries on a trade in the UK through a branch or agency the right of non-UK resident owners to hold or, when entitled to to which the PROs are attributable.
vote, freely to vote the companys non-cumulative dollar preference shares.
Annual tax charges Corporate US Holders of PROs may be subject to annual UK Memorandum and articles of association tax charges or relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange The companys Memorandum of Association and Articles of rates and in respect of profits, gains and losses arising from Association as in effect at the date of this annual report are the PROs, but only if such corporate US Holders carry on a registered with the Registrar of Companies of Scotland.
The trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a UK permanent Articles of Association were last amended on 29 April 2004 establishment to which the PROs are attributable.
and have been filed with the SEC.
Inheritance tax Documents on display In relation to PROs held through DTC or any other clearing Documents concerning the company may be inspected at system, the UK inheritance tax position is not free from doubt 36 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 2YB.
in respect of a lifetime transfer, or death of, a US Holder who is not domiciled nor deemed to be domiciled in the UK for Executive directors service contracts and copies of directors inheritance tax purposes: HM Revenue & Customs is known to indemnities granted by the company in terms of section 309C consider that the situs of securities held in this manner is not of the Companies Act 1985 may be inspected at the necessarily determined by the place where the securities are companys office at Gogarburn, Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ registered.
In appropriate circumstances, there may be a telephone 0131 626 4114. charge to UK inheritance tax as a result of a lifetime transfer at RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 259 Shareholder information
