Notice of Annual General Meeting Re-election of Directors no later than the The Companys auditors must offer third Annual General Meeting following themselves for reappointment at each Annual Important information last election or re-election General Meeting at which accounts are This notice of meeting contains important 4.
That Merlyn Lowther, who retires in presented.
Accordingly, the Board, on the information and requires your attention.
If you accordance with Article 88, be re-elected recommendation of the Audit Committee, are in any doubt as to what action to take you as a Director of the Company.
proposes the reappointment of should consult with an appropriate adviser.
 LLP as the Under Article 88 of the Companys Articles of Companys auditors.
Resolution 9 authorises Notice is hereby given that the 2007 Annual Association Directors must retire and may the Directors to agree the remuneration of General Meeting of Schroders plc will be held offer themselves for re-election not later than  LLP for their at 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA the third Annual General Meeting following his services as auditors.
on Tuesday 24 April 2007 at 11.30 a. m. to or her election or last re-election to the Board.
transact the following business: Merlyn Lowther is retiring from office under Authority to allot shares 10.
That the Directors be and are hereby this Article and offers herself for re-election.
generally and unconditionally authorised Resolutions Merlyn Lowthers profile is contained on to exercise all powers of the Company to To consider and, if thought fit, to pass page 19. allot relevant securities up to an aggregate resolutions numbered 1 to 10 as Ordinary The Board supports the re-election of nominal amount of 5,000,000, which Resolutions requiring a majority of more than Merlyn Lowther who also sits on the authority shall expire on 1 May 2008 or at 50 per cent.
and resolutions 11 and 12 as Audit Committee.
the conclusion of the next Annual General Special Resolutions requiring a majority of not Meeting of the Company after the passing less than 75 per cent..
Re-election of Directors having attained of this resolution whichever is earlier the age of 70 resolutions 5 to 7 unless previously revoked or varied by the In the opinion of the Directors, all of the 5.
That George Mallinckrodt, who retires in Company in general meeting, save that resolutions proposed are in the best interests accordance with Article 89, be re-elected the Company may before such expiry of shareholders and consequently the as a Director of the Company.
make an offer or agreement which would Directors recommend that shareholders 6.
That Michael Miles, who retires in or might require relevant securities to be vote in favour of each resolution.
accordance with Article 89, be re-elected allotted after such expiry and the Directors as a Director of the Company.
may allot relevant securities in pursuance Report and Accounts 7.
That Bruno Schroder, who retires in of such an offer or agreement as if the 1.
That the Directors report and the accordance with Article 89, be re-elected authority conferred hereby had not Accounts of the Company for the year as a Director of the Company.
For the purposes of this authority, ended 31 December 2006 be received the expression relevant securities shall and adopted.
Under Article 89 of the Companys Articles mean relevant securities as defined in of Association Directors must retire and may section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 For each financial year the Directors are offer themselves for re-election annually once as amended, but shall not in any required to present the Directors report and they have attained the age of 70.
This applies circumstances include ordinary shares the Accounts of the Company for adoption to George Mallinckrodt, Michael Miles and as defined in the Companys Articles of by shareholders.
Accordingly, the Report and Bruno Schroder and they each offer Association or any right to subscribe Accounts for the year ended 31 December themselves for re-election.
A profile of each of for, or to convert any security into, 2006 are now presented and proposed these Directors is contained on page 19. ordinary shares.
The Board supports the re-election of George Under the Companies Act 1985, the Directors Final dividend Mallinckrodt in view of his many years may not allot unissued shares in the Company 2.
That a final dividend of 17.5 pence international business experience.
The Board without the authority of shareholders in per share on the ordinary shares and believes that Michael Miles has continued to general meeting, except for the issue of on the non-voting ordinary shares as lead the Board ably over the past year and shares under the Companys share or share recommended by the Directors be remains the most appropriate person to option plans.
If approved by shareholders, declared payable on 27 April 2007 continue to lead the Board and therefore the this resolution would permit the Directors to to shareholders on the register on Board supports his re-election.
The Board issue non-voting ordinary shares or rights to 16 March 2007. further believes that it is appropriate for subscribe for, or convert securities into, nonBruno Schroder, as the representative of our voting ordinary shares up to an aggregate The payment of the final dividend of principal shareholder group, to be re-elected.
The authority 17.5 pence per share in respect of the would not permit the Directors to issue year ended 31 December 2006, which is The Chairman, and the senior independent ordinary shares or to grant rights to subscribe recommended by the Board, requires the Director, Sir Peter Job, in respect of the for, or convert securities into, ordinary shares.
approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Chairman, confirm that, following the The maximum amount of the authority is completion of the Board performance equal to approximately 1.7 per cent.
of the Remuneration report evaluation process for 2006, the performance Companys total issued share capital and 3.
That the remuneration report for the year of each of the Directors named in resolutions approximately 7.4 per cent.
of its issued nonended 31 December 2006 be approved.
4 to 7 continues to be effective and voting ordinary share capital, in each case as demonstrates commitment to his or her at 8 March 2007, being the latest practicable Under section 234B of the Companies Act respective role.
Accordingly, the re-election date prior to the publication of this document.
1985 as amended, the Directors must of each of these Directors is recommended.
The Company does not currently hold any prepare an annual report detailing the shares in treasury.
remuneration of the Directors and the Auditors Resolutions 8 and 9 Companys remuneration policy for Directors.
That  LLP be The authority given in this resolution would Section 241A requires that a resolution be put and are hereby reappointed as auditors expire on the earlier of 1 May 2008 and the to shareholders each year for their approval of of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of the next Annual General that report.
The remuneration report can be conclusion of this meeting until the Meeting of the Company.
This notice conclusion of the next general meeting therefore contains a resolution to approve the at which accounts are laid before the Except for the issue of non-voting ordinary remuneration report for the year ended Company in accordance with section 241 shares under the Companys share or share 31 December 2006.
The result of this of the Companies Act 1985 as option plans, the Directors do not presently resolution is advisory only.
intend to allot any unissued shares.
That the Directors be authorised to fix the they have not sought general shareholder remuneration of  authority to issue non-voting ordinary shares LLP as auditors of the Company.
in the past, the Directors now consider that it would be appropriate to have the flexibility to make limited issues of non-voting ordinary Since the previous authority was renewed at Schroders shares or to grant rights to subscribe for, or the last Annual General Meeting on 26 April convert securities into, non-voting ordinary 2006, 6,445,073 non-voting ordinary shares Notice of Annual shares.
This flexibility could be required have been purchased and cancelled at a General Meeting should the Company wish to use non-voting total cost of 57,792,040.
As at the date of ordinary shares as part of the consideration this notice of meeting there were 11,106,854 for possible acquisitions.
options outstanding over non-voting ordinary shares.
of the 96 97 Authority to purchase own shares total issued share capital and 16.5 per cent.
That the Company be and is hereby the issued non-voting ordinary share capital at generally and unconditionally authorised that date and would represent 4.0 per cent.
of to make market purchases within the the total issued share capital and 21.1 per meaning of section 163 3 of the cent.
of the issued non-voting ordinary share Companies Act 1985 as amended of capital if the Company were to purchase the non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each maximum number of shares allowed under Shares, subject to the following this general authority.
conditions: In recent years, this authority has been used solely with a view to maintaining the ratio of a such authority be limited to a maximum number of 14,700,000 Shares: ordinary shares to non-voting ordinary shares over the medium term, taking into account the b in the case of purchases made issue of non-voting ordinary shares under the otherwise than by tender offer, the Companys share or share option plans.
If the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, authority is renewed this year, the Board at which Shares may be purchased is intends that the previous policy would be the higher of: extended so as to take into account the issue i 5 per cent.
above the average of the of any non-voting ordinary shares pursuant to middle market quotations for the the authority contained in resolution 10 as well Shares as derived from the London as under the Companys share or share Stock Exchange Daily Official List for option plans.
In addition, purchases may also the five business days preceding the be undertaken at the Directors discretion, date of purchase: and where they consider them to be otherwise ii the higher of the price of the last appropriate.
Purchases under this authority independent trade and the highest would only be made where the Directors current independent bid on the believed that they were in the best interests London Stock Exchange at the time of the Company, taking into account other the purchase is carried out: available investment opportunities and the overall financial position of the Group.
c in the case of a tender offer, the Purchases would only be made where maximum price, exclusive of expenses, earnings per share would be increased at which Shares may be purchased except possibly in respect of purchases is 5 per cent.
above the average of made in relation to the issue of non-voting the middle market quotations for the ordinary shares under the Companys share Shares as derived from the London or share option plans.
Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the If the Company were to purchase any nondate on which the tender offer is voting ordinary shares pursuant to this announced: authority, the Directors would consider whether to cancel those shares or subject to d the minimum price at which Shares the limits allowed by company law hold them may be purchased is 1 per share, as treasury shares.
exclusive of expenses: and Amendments to Articles of Association e such authority shall, unless renewed 12.
That the Articles of Association of the prior to such time, expire at the Company be amended by the adoption of conclusion of the next Annual General the amendments to Articles 13, 54, 84, Meeting of the Company save that the 89, 99, 103, 104 and 146, together with Company may before such expiry consequential re-numbering and crossenter into a contract to purchase referencing amendments, highlighted in Shares which would or might be the revised print of the Articles of completed or executed wholly or partly Association initialled by the Chairman for after its expiry and may make a the purposes of identification only.
purchase of Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
The Companys Articles of Association were adopted in 2000 and last amended in April If passed, this resolution would renew the 2004.
Since then the coming into force of Companys general authority to make the Companies Audit, Investigations and purchases of its non-voting ordinary shares.
Enterprise Act 2004 has made certain This authority relates to 14,700,000 shares, amendments to the Companies Act 1985 to representing approximately 5 per cent.
of the clarify the circumstances in which a company Companys total issued share capital and may indemnify its directors against liabilities 21.8 per cent.
of its issued non-voting incurred by them and to permit a company to ordinary share capital.
The authority sets limits fund a directors expenditure on the defence on the price which may be paid for any shares of legal proceedings in certain circumstances.
and is limited to market purchases on the Amendments to Articles 99 and 146 of the London Stock Exchange or so far as required Companys Articles of Association are being under the Listing Rules market purchases by proposed so as expressly to provide, tender offer to all shareholders.
respectively, for the funding by the Company of a Directors defence proceedings and for CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies the indemnification by the Company of any It should be noted that, in accordance with through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service Director or any director of any company the provisions of the Combined Code, nonmay do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on associated with the Company being, in executive Directors who have served at least 24 April 2007 and any adjournment s thereof by using the practice, any UK subsidiary of the Company, nine years on the Board, are subject to annual procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST in each case to the extent permitted by re-election.
Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting company law.
service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor Minor amendments are also proposed to or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the If approved by shareholders, the amendment Articles 13, 54, 103 and 104 to take account appropriate action on their behalf.
to Article 99 will give the Company express of developments in market practice or which permission to fund a Directors expenditure in are of a technical or drafting nature.
Certain In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using defending any criminal or civil proceedings consequential re-numbering and crossthe CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly and to do anything to enable a Director to referencing amendments are also proposed.
authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos avoid incurring such expenditure, as provided specifications and must contain the information required by company law.
It will also give the Company The number of amendments is such that they for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
specific permission to fund a Directors have not been described separately in this The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the resolution but have been highlighted in the expenditure in defending himself in regulatory appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction revised print of the Articles of Association investigations or actions, as provided by given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers which is available for inspection as detailed company law.
The Companies Act 2006 agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy below.
makes specific provision for the funding of appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this directors expenditure on the defence of purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time regulatory investigations and actions, Proxy forms as determined by the timestamp applied to the message although the relevant section of that Act A proxy form is enclosed to enable by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers has not yet been brought into force.
shareholders unable to attend the meeting agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any to cast their votes at the Annual General change of instructions to proxies appointed through The proposed amendment to Article 146 will Meeting by post or online.
CREST should be communicated to the appointee through have the effect of simplifying the provision in other means.
the Companys Articles of Association for the By Order of the Board indemnification of Directors.
The existing CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Article 146 Indemnity of Officers provides for Graham Staples sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures automatic indemnification by the Company of Company Secretary in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system its Directors and other officers other than its timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the auditors in certain limited circumstances, as Registered office: input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of well as permitting the Company to indemnify 31 Gresham Street the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST such officeholders more broadly to the extent London EC2V 7QA member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, permitted by company law.
The automatic 8 March 2007 to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service indemnification provision will be removed if provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to the proposed amendment to that Article takes ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the effect.
The proposed amendment to Article CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, Notes 146 will also remove the existing provision in CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Only ordinary shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the Companys Articles of Association for the sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in the meeting are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual indemnification of officers other than directors attend and insofar as permitted by the Companys Articles concerning practical limitations of the CREST system of Association to vote instead of him or her.
The Company and auditors, on the basis that, following the and timings.
currently has 226,022,400 ordinary shares in issue with coming into force of the Companies Audit, voting rights attached and 67,369,380 non-voting ordinary Investigations and Enterprise Act 2004, there The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy shares in issue.
No shares are held in treasury.
Non-voting are now no specific company law restrictions Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 ordinary shareholders have no right to attend or vote of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. on the indemnification of such officers.
If the at the Annual General Meeting.
amendment to Article 146 is approved Profiles of each of the Directors offering themselves for A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of by shareholders, it is proposed that the election or re-election are on pages 18 and 19 of this proxy is enclosed for ordinary shareholders which should Company grants specific deeds of indemnity report.
The profiles include, where appropriate, be completed and returned to the Companys registrar, to each of its Directors and its Company membership of Board Committees.
Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Secretary in place of the automatic indemnity, Sussex, BN99 6AB not later than 48 hours before the time The following documents are available for inspection at the as more particularly described in the fixed for the meeting.
Completion of the proxy will not Companys registered office during normal business hours preclude an ordinary shareholder from attending and voting Directors report on page 22. on weekdays and will be available for inspection at least in person.
15 minutes prior to and during the meeting: In addition, it is proposed to delete Articles 84 Register of Directors interests kept in accordance with Shareholders who prefer to register the appointment of and 89 in their entirety.
Section 293 of the section 325 of the Companies Act 1985: their proxy electronically via the internet can do so at Companies Act 1985 as amended, which Articles of Association: www.
co. uk where full instructions are given.
The Directors service contracts or letters of appointment: provides for an age limit of 70 for directors, is personal reference number, card ID and account number and printed on the proxy form will be required.
Alternatively to be repealed as from 6 April 2007.
Article 84 Proposed amendments to the Articles of Association shareholders who have already registered with Lloyds TSB excludes the operation of that section and, see resolution 12.
Registrars Shareview service can appoint their proxy by to the extent it does, is therefore superfluous.
logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and Article 84 also provides for the Board, when In the event that you have sold or transferred your shares in clicking on Company Meetings.
A proxy appointment the Company, you should pass this Annual Report and convening a general meeting at which a made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address Accounts to the person through whom the sale or transfer other than those provided or if received after 11.30 a. m. director will be proposed for appointment or was made for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Any communication found to contain a reappointment who at the date for which the computer virus will not be accepted.
meeting is convened will be 70 or over, to give notice of the Directors age in the notice Only those ordinary shareholders on the register of convening the meeting or in any document members as at 6.00 p. m. on 22 April 2007 will be entitled accompanying the notice.
In light of the to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes forthcoming repeal of section 293, the to entries on the register of members after 6.00 p. m. on Directors consider this provision to be 22 April 2007 will be disregarded in determining the rights unnecessary.
Article 89 provides for a director of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
to retire if he or she has reached the age of 70 or over at the date of an annual general meeting.
In light of the Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006, the Board considers it inappropriate to retain this provision.
