INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the members of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC the Company We have audited the financial statements of Our responsibility is to audit the financial cover all risks and controls, or form an Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC for the statements and the part of the Directors opinion on the effectiveness of the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise Remuneration Report to be audited in Companys corporate governance procedures the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, accordance with relevant legal and or its risk and control procedures.
Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders regulatory requirements and International We read the other information contained in Funds, the Cash Flow Statement and the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Annual Report and consider whether it is related notes.
These financial statements have We report to you our opinion as to whether consistent with the audited financial been prepared under the accounting policies the financial statements give a true and fair statements.
We consider the implications for set out therein.
We have also audited the view and whether the financial statements our report if we become aware of any information in the Directors Remuneration and the part of the Directors Remuneration apparent misstatements or material Report that is described as having been Report to be audited have been properly inconsistencies with the financial statements.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Our responsibilities do not extend to any Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in other information.
This report is made solely to the Companys our opinion the information given in the members, as a body, in accordance with Directors Report is consistent with the section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Basis of Audit Opinion financial statements.
The information given in Our audit work has been undertaken so that We conducted our audit in accordance with the Directors Report includes the specific we might state to the Companys members International Standards on Auditing UK and information presented in the Chairmans those matters we are required to state to them Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Statement, the Managers Review and the in an auditors report and for no other An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Ten Year Record that is cross referenced from purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by of evidence relevant to the amounts and the Business Review section of the Directors law, we do not accept or assume disclosures in the financial statements and the Report.
We also report to you if, in our responsibility to anyone other than the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be opinion, the Company has not kept proper Company and the Companys members as a audited.
It also includes an assessment of the accounting records, if we have not received body, for our audit work, for this report, or for significant estimates and judgments made by all the information and explanations we the opinions we have formed.
the directors in the preparation of the financial require for our audit, or if information statements, and of whether the accounting specified by law regarding Directors policies are appropriate to the companys remuneration and other transactions is not Respective Responsibilities circumstances, consistently applied and disclosed.
of Directors and Auditors adequately disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Governance Statement reflects the Companys We planned and performed our audit so as Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration compliance with the nine provisions of the to obtain all the information and explanations Report and the financial statements in 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our which we considered necessary in order to accordance with applicable law and UK review by the Listing Rules of the Financial provide us with sufficient evidence to give Accounting Standards UK Generally Services Authority, and we report if it does reasonable assurance that the financial Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in not.
We are not required to consider whether statements and the part of the Directors the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on the Boards statements on internal control Remuneration Report to be audited are free page 31.
32 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2006 and of its return for the year then ended: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Edinburgh 10 May 2006 SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 33
