NOTES TO ACCOUNTS investment activities provides opportunities arising from the Companys financial 20 Directors Interest in Contracts for both market appreciation and currency instruments are market risk as noted above, No Director has a contract of service with gains, but leaves it exposed to the risk of interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and the Company.
market volatility and currency fluctuations.
During the year no Director was interested In the case of an investment trust, capital Market Risk in any contract or other matter requiring profits from investing activities and currency The Company is exposed to market risk due to disclosure under section 232 of the gains are prohibited from being distributed in fluctuations in the market prices of its Companies Act 1985. the form of dividends.
The Companys managers actively monitor market and economic data Gearing 21 Contingencies, Guarantees and report to the Board, which considers The Company has long term and short term and Financial Commitments investment policy on a regular basis.
The aim of the use of gearing is At the year end the Company had a to enhance long term returns to shareholders Interest Rate Risk contingent liability amounting to 10 million by investing borrowed funds in equities and The Company finances its operations by 2005 14 million under a subscription other assets.
means of called up share capital, realised How and where borrowings are invested is agreement relating to participating loan notes.
capital profits, retained revenue reserves, bank reviewed by the Board in consultation with the The obligation will expire on 31 December borrowings and the issue of debenture stocks.
Managers at every Board meeting.
The value of the Companys bond portfolio is the decisions made, appropriate adjustments subject to interest rate risk.
It is not the to the gearing position are then made by the 22 Summary of Main Companys policy to hedge this risk.
Details of borrowings and where Investment Restrictions they are invested is given in monthly The Company has negotiated short term Factsheets published on the Managers multi-currency borrowing facilities at interest as incorporated within the Investment website, www.
rates linked to LIBOR and may draw down Management Agreement between the funds for periods up to 3 years.
Company and Baillie Gifford & Co The Company has been given an Aaa Issuer The Company has issued a mix of stepped Rating by Moodys.
Issuer Ratings are Holding size and fixed interest debenture stocks.
The opinions of the ability of entities to honour At the time of investment, a maximum of stepped interest debenture stocks have senior unsecured financial obligations and 8% of total assets may be invested in any reached their final step and are deemed contracts.
This restriction does not apply to be fixed.
to investment in collective investment The Companys income may be affected by schemes, issues by way of rights or certain fluctuations in short term interest rates: income Credit Risk government bonds.
from overseas investment can be affected by In addition to interest rate risk, the Companys A maximum of 40% of total assets may be currency fluctuations.
investments in bonds are also subject to credit invested in holdings exceeding 3% of the risk.
Credit risk reflects the possibility that a The Companys financial instruments, which value of the Companys total assets.
Again, borrower will not be able to meet its provide finance for investment activities, this restriction does not apply to collective obligation to make payments of interest or comprise its debenture stocks, its long and investment schemes, issues by way of rights or principal when they fall due.
The Managers short term borrowings, and its cash and certain government bonds.
analyse the credit risk of the Companys liquid resources.
In addition to the equity bond investments prior to purchase and portfolio, the Company maintains investments Categories of investment continue to monitor developments in credit in UK and overseas corporate bonds as part No investment shall be made on which there quality subsequently.
The Company may, from time to time, enter Liquidity Risk The Managers must seek permission of the into derivative transactions to hedge specific The Companys policy with regard to Board to invest in collective investment currency or interest rate risk.
No such liquidity is to ensure continuity of funding.
schemes managed by Baillie Gifford & Co. transactions were undertaken in the year.
Short term flexibility is achieved by overdraft Transactions in futures and options must be facilities.
consistent with Inland Revenue guidelines so The Company has precisely defined guidelines as to ensure maintenance of the Companys The Companys assets comprise mainly readily to govern the purchase or writing of options Investment Trust status.
realisable securities which can be sold freely on individual shares.
No options were to meet funding commitments if necessary.
purchased or written in the year.
23 Derivatives and Other Trading in financial instruments is not within Foreign Currency Risk Financial Instruments the normal activities of an investment trust, The international nature of the Companys nor is it the Companys policy to trade in such investment activities gives rise to a currency The Company operates as an investment trust instruments.
Transactions in financial risk which is inherent in the performance of its company in accordance with S842 of the instruments generally arise as a result of overseas investments.
It is not the Companys Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
policy to hedge this risk on a continuing basis, such, the Company is exempt from capital but the Company may from time to time match gains tax on the sale of its investments.
The The Companys Managers may not enter specific overseas investment with foreign Managers monitor investment movements, the into derivative transactions without the prior currency borrowings.
level of forecast income and expenditure and approval of the Board, and all borrowing the amount of proposed dividends to ensure facilities require Board authorisation.
The The Companys overseas income is subject to Board agrees policies for managing risk currency fluctuation.
The Company does not that the provisions of S842 are not breached.
The main risks hedge this currency risk.
The international nature of the Companys 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
