NOTES TO ACCOUNTS 1 Principal Accounting Policies A number of new UK Financial Reporting a Basis of Accounting follows: where they relate directly to the Standards have been introduced with which The accounts are prepared under the acquisition or disposal of an investment, the Company must comply this year.
These historical cost convention, modified to include in which case they are added to the cost standards are part of the UK convergence the revaluation of fixed asset investments, and of the investment or deducted from the sale programme with International Accounting on the assumption that approval as an proceeds and where they are connected Standards and as such have required most investment trust will continue to be granted.
with the maintenance or enhancement of UK listed companies to restate prior year the value of investments, in which case The accounts have been prepared in figures to reflect the new accounting they are charged 50:50 to the revenue accordance with applicable UK treatment.
The financial statements for the account and realised capital reserve.
accounting standards and with the Statement year to 31 March 2006 have been of Recommended Practice Financial e Long Term Borrowings and Finance prepared on the basis of the accounting Statements of Investment Trust Companies Costs policies set out in the Companys Annual issued in 2003, revised 2005.
Financial Statements at 31 March 2005 Long term borrowings are carried in the In order to reflect better the activities of the balance sheet at the cumulative amount except as detailed below: trust and in accordance with guidance issued of net proceeds after issue, plus accrued investments have been valued at fair by the AITC, supplementary information finance costs attributable to the stepped value through profit or loss in accordance interest debentures.
The finance costs of which analyses the profit and loss account with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: between items of a revenue and capital such borrowings are allocated 50:50 to the Measurement.
The effect is to move from nature has been presented in the Income revenue account and realised capital a mid to a bid basis of valuation, Statement.
reserve at a constant rate on the carrying resulting in a reduction in the value of amount.
Issue costs are written off at a Financial assets and financial liabilities are investments and unrealised capital constant rate over the life of the borrowings.
recognised in the Companys balance sheet reserves of 2,341,000 2005 Gains and losses on the repurchase or early when it becomes a party to the contractual 1,743,000 : settlement of debt is wholly charged to provisions of the instrument.
in compliance with FRS 21 Events after b Investments the Balance Sheet Date, dividends f Taxation Listed investments are valued at fair value declared after the period end are no The tax effect of different items of income and through profit or loss.
The fair value of listed longer treated as a liability at the period expenditure is allocated between revenue investments is bid value, or in the case of end.
The effect is to reduce creditors and and capital on the same basis as the FTSE 100 constituents, at last traded prices increase revenue reserves by particular item to which it relates, under the issued by the London Stock Exchange.
13,395,000 2005 14,928,000 : marginal method, using the Companys effective tax rate for the accounting period.
Listed investments include Open Ended income from fixed interest securities has Investment Companies OEICs authorised in Deferred taxation is provided on all timing been calculated using the effective interest the UK: these are valued at mid price and differences, calculated at the current tax rate rate method.
The net effect of this change are classified for valuation purposes relevant to the benefit or liability.
Deferred tax in the year to 31 March 2006 is to according to the principal geographical area assets are recognised only to the extent that it increase unrealised capital reserves by of the underlying holdings.
will be more likely than not that there will be 31,000, increase realised capital taxable profits from which underlying timing The fair value of unlisted investments uses reserves by 17,000 and reduce valuation techniques, determined by the differences can be deducted.
revenue reserves by 48,000 Directors, based upon latest dealing prices, respectively.
Comparative figures have g Foreign Currencies stockbroker valuations, net asset values not been restated as the effect on prior Transactions involving foreign currencies are and other information, as appropriate.
periods is immaterial: converted at the rate ruling at the time of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities in foreign c Income the implementation of FRS 25 and the currencies are translated at the closing rates i Income from equity investments is brought revision of the Statement of of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Any into account on the date on which the Recommended Practice Financial gain or loss arising from a change in investments are quoted ex-dividend or, Statements of Investment Trust exchange rate subsequent to the date of the where no ex-dividend date is quoted, Companies SORP in 2005 has transaction is included as an exchange gain when the Companys right to receive resulted in changes in the presentation or loss in capital reserve or revenue reserve payment is established.
distributions in respect of a year were ii Interest from fixed interest securities is disclosed on the face of the Statement recognised on an effective interest rate h Capital Reserves of Total Return and the revenue column basis.
i Capital Reserves Realised: of that statement was deemed to be the Gains and losses on realisation of iii Franked income is stated net of tax profit and loss account of the Company.
investments and realised exchange credits.
We now present an Income Statement differences of a capital nature are dealt which does not show on its face the iv Unfranked investment income includes the with in this reserve.
Purchases of the distribution in respect of equity shares taxes deducted at source.
Companys own shares for cancellation and, whilst it still shows information on are also funded from this reserve.
50% of v Interest receivable on deposits is capital and revenue returns, it is the total management fees, including related VAT, recognised on an accruals basis.
column which is regarded as the profit and finance costs are allocated to the and loss account of the Company.
vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends realised capital reserve in accordance Dividend distributions are now shown in in cash, the net amount of the cash with the Companys objective of the Reconciliation of Movements in dividend declared is credited to the combining capital and income growth.
Shareholders Funds and in the Notes to revenue account.
ii Capital Reserves Unrealised: d Expenses Unrealised appreciation represents the The overall effect of these changes in All expenses are accounted for on an amount by which assets and liabilities shareholders funds and reserves is detailed in accruals basis.
Expenses are charged valued at fair value differs from their book note 2. through the revenue account except as value and is dealt with in this reserve.
