If you then agree to the terms proxies via CREST.
Both are authorised and regulated and conditions, in future, on the day that on CREST procedures, limitations and by the Financial Services Authority.
Baillie documents are sent to shareholders by systems timings, please refer to the CREST Gifford only provides information about its post, you will receive an e-mail providing Manual.
The Company may treat as products and does not provide investment the website address link to the invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST advice.
The staff of Baillie Gifford and the documents.
After you register, paper in the circumstances set out in Regulation Directors may hold shares in Scottish documents will be available on request.
35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Mortgage and may buy or sell such shares Regulations 2001.
Computershare Investor subject to Baillie Giffords personal account Electronic Proxy Voting You can also Services PLC is authorised and regulated dealing rules.
return proxies electronically at by the Financial Services Authority.
Risks Where this has been received in a country If you have registered for electronic Past performance is no guarantee of future where the provision of such a service would communications you will be issued a performance.
be contrary to local laws or regulations, this PIN number to use when returning The value of your investment and any should be treated as information only.
proxies to the secure Registrar website.
income from it is not guaranteed and may You do not need to register for electronic go down as well as up and you may not Scottish Mortgage is an investment communications to use electronic proxy get back the amount invested.
Investment trusts offer voting, paper proxy forms will contain a because the share price is determined by PIN number to allow you to return investors the following: the changing conditions in the relevant proxies electronically.
Participation in a diversified portfolio stockmarkets in which the Trust invests and of shares.
If you have any questions about these by the supply and demand for the Trusts services please contact Computershare Constant supervision by experienced shares.
You should regard your investment on 0870 702 0000. professional managers.
The Company is free from capital gains Scottish Mortgage has borrowed money to CREST Proxy Voting tax on capital profits realised within its make further investments.
This is commonly portfolio although investors are still liable If you are a user of the CREST system referred to as gearing.
The risk is that, for capital gains tax on profits when including a CREST Personal Member, when this money is repaid by the Trust, the selling their investment.
you may appoint one or more proxies or value of these investments may not be give an instruction to a proxy by having an These accounts have been approved by enough to cover the borrowing and interest appropriate CREST message transmitted.
the Directors of Scottish Mortgage costs, and the Trust will make a loss.
If the To appoint a proxy or to give an Investment Trust PLC.
Baillie Gifford Savings Trusts investments fall in value, gearing will instruction to a proxy whether previously Management Limited is the ISA Manager increase the amount of the loss in value to appointed or otherwise via the CREST of the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA, investors.
The more highly geared the Trust, system, the CREST message must be the PEP Manager of the Baillie Gifford the greater this effect will be.
received by the issuers agent ID number Investment Trust PEP, the Manager of As Scottish Mortgage invests in overseas 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust securities changes in the rates of exchange the time appointed for holding the meeting.
Share Plan and Childrens Savings Plan may also cause the value of your For this purpose, the time of receipt will be and the promoter of the Baillie Gifford investment and any income it may pay to taken to be the time as determined by the Select Pension.
Alliance Trust Savings go down or up.
timestamp generated by the CREST system Limited is the provider, trustee and from which the issuers agent is able to administrator of the Alliance Trust Personal The value of tax reliefs will depend on your retrieve the message.
CREST Personal personal circumstances and tax rates and Pension Plan through which the Baillie Members or other CREST sponsored reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs Gifford Select Pension is made available.
members should contact their CREST Baillie Gifford Savings Management and PEPs, could change at any time in the sponsors for assistance with appointing future.
Limited is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
