92 Carillion plc Section 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Further Information Shareholder Information Dividends change to dividend mandate instructions.
You can register Dividends are normally paid twice a year.
The proposed final for this portfolio service which is easy to use, secure and free dividend in respect of the year to 31 December 2006 will be as long as you have access to the internet by logging on to payable on 22 June 2007 to those shareholders on the register www.
co. uk and following a simple registration process.
Electronic Proxy Appointments A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
For the AGM to be held on 9 May 2007, you may, if you wish, register the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging on For those shareholders who prefer not to participate in the DRIP, to the website www.
co. uk arrangements can be made to pay your dividends automatically into your bank or building society account.
This service has a You will need your voting reference numbers the three 8-digit number of benefits: numbers shown on your form of proxy.
Alternatively, if you have registered for a Shareview portfolio, log on to your portfolio there is no chance of the dividend cheque going missing at www.
co. uk and click on Company Meetings.
in the post: the dividend payment is received more quickly as the cash is Please note that any electronic communication that is found paid directly into your account on the payment date without to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
the need to wait for the cheque to clear: and you will help Carillion to improve its efficiency by reducing ShareGift printing and cheque clearing costs.
ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders, administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is especially for If you wish to register for this service please call Lloyds TSB those who may wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares whose Registrars on the number detailed below to request a dividend value makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
information can be obtained at www.
org or from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Results Half year to 30 June 2007: announced 5 September 2007 Warning to Shareholders Full year to 31 December 2007: announced March 2008.
Over the last year many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or Shareholder Enquiries correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically Lloyds TSB Registrars maintain the register of members from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering of the Company.
If you have any queries concerning your to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares shareholding, or if any of your details change, please contact in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely the Registrars: persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is Lloyds TSB Registrars around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investors that has been The Causeway duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully Worthing investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very West Sussex wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount BN99 6DA or offers of free company reports.
Telephone 0870 600 3953 If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Textphone for shareholders with hearing difficulties 0870 600 3950 Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation: Share Dealing Service Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before Carillion offers its UK shareholders, Shareview Dealing, a getting involved.
uk register: telephone and internet share sale service operated by Lloyds The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised TSB Registrars.
For telephone sales call 0870 850 0852 between overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet investors and any approach from such organisations should sales log on to www.
You will need your be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate.
and any other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible Multiple Accounts on the Shareholder Register to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation If you have received two or more sets of the documents concerning Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online the Annual General Meeting this means that there is more than form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts one account in your name on the shareholder register, perhaps overseas.
shtml: because either your name or your address appear on each account Inform Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3953 who will in a slightly different way.
For security reasons, the Registrars will record the details and pass them to Carillion who will liaise not amalgamate the accounts without your written consent, so if with the FSA.
you would like any multiple accounts combined into one account, please write to Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address given above.
Details of any shareholding facilities that the Company endorses will be included in company mailings.
co. uk is a service offered by Lloyds TSB Registrars More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found that enables you to check your holdings in many UK companies on the FSA website www.
uk consumer or telephone and helps you to organise your investments electronically.
You can 0845 606 1234. also notify Lloyds TSB Registrars of a change of address or a Advisers Further information Auditor Want to find out more?
com 2 Cornwall Street Birmingham B3 2DL Banker Home page Health and Safety National Westminster Bank plc www.
com safety 16 South Parade Nottingham NG1 2JX Joint Brokers Morgan Stanley 25 Cabot Square Canary Wharf London E14 5QA Oriel Securities 125 Wood Street London EC2V 7AN Financial Adviser Lazard 50 Stratton Street Investors Sustainability London www.
com sustainability W1J 8LL Legal Adviser Slaughter and May One Bunhill Row London EC1Y 8YY Share Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Skye Uncoated Brilliant White is manufactured using ECF elemental chlorine free pulp It is FSC accredited FSC mixed sources comes from well managed forests and other controlled sources and or post-consumer reclaimed materials.
Photographic contributions from Alex Sedgwick, Benedict Luxmoore, Carnegie Orr and Threes Company Communications.
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 www.
com MAKING TOMORROW A BETTER PLACE M Carillion plc Birch Street Wolverhampton WV1 4HY United Kingdom T 44 0 1902 422431 F 44 0 1902 316165 www.
