208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 119 Notes to the European Embedded Value Basis I.
Basis of preparation The supplementary information on pages 115 to 125 shows the Groups results as measured on a European Embedded Value EEV basis.
This includes the results of the life, pension and investment business, including unit trust business, undertaken by the Group on a basis determined in accordance with the EEV Principles issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Ofcers Forum, a group of chief financial ofcers from 19 major European insurers, as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on EEV disclosures issued in October 2005 together the EEV Principles.
The treatment of all other transactions and balances is unchanged from the primary financial statements on an IFRS basis.
The objectives of the EEV basis is to provide shareholders with more realistic information on the financial position and performance of the Group than that provided by the IFRS basis.
Under the EEV methodology, profit is recognised as it is earned over the life of the products within the covered business.
The embedded value of the covered business is the sum of the shareholders net worth in respect of the covered business and the present value of the projected profit stream.
Methodology a Covered business The covered business is the life, pension and investment business, including unit trust business, undertaken by the Group.
b Calculation of EEV profit from existing business comprises the expected return on the value of in-force business at the start of the year plus the impact of any changes in the assumptions regarding future operating experience, plus changes in reserving basis other than economic assumption changes, plus profits and losses caused by differences between the actual experience for the period and the assumptions used to calculate the embedded value at the end of the period.
c Allowance for risk The allowance for risk in the shareholder cash ows is a key feature of the EEV Principles.
The EEV Principles set out three main areas of allowance for risk in the embedded value: The risk discount rate The allowance for the cost of financial options and guarantees The cost of holding both prudential reserves and any additional capital required The reported EEV allows for risk via a risk discount rate based on a bottom-up market-consistent approach, plus an appropriate additional margin for non-market risk.
The Group does not offer products that carry any significant financial guarantees or options.
d Deriving the risk discount rate A market-consistent embedded value for each product class has been calculated.
In principle, each cash ow is valued using the discount rate applied to such a cash ow in the capital markets.
However in practice, where cash ows are either independent or move linearly with market movement, it is possible to apply a simplied method known as the certainty equivalent approach.
Under this approach all assets are assumed to earn the risk free rate and are discounted using that risk free rate.
A market-consistent cost of holding the required capital has also been calculated.
118 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 120 Notes to the European Embedded Value Basis continued As part of this approach, an appropriate adjustment has been made to reect the fact that the value of tax relief on expenses does not move linearly with market movements.
Finally, an additional allowance for non-market risk has been made by increasing the discount rate by 0.8%.
For presentational purposes, a risk discount rate has then been calculated which under the EEV basis gives the same value determined above.
This provides an average risk discount rate for the EEV and is described in relation to the risk free rate.
This average risk discount rate has also been used to calculate the published value of new business.
e Non-market risk Best estimate assumptions have been established based on available information and when used within the market-consistent calculations provide the primary evaluation of the impact of non-market risk.
However, some non-market operational risks are not symmetric, with adverse experience having a higher impact on the EEV than favourable experience.
Allowance has been made for this by increasing the risk discount rate by 0.8%.
f Cost of required capital In light of the results of internal analysis, the Directors consider that the minimum regulatory capital provides adequate capital cover for the risks inherent in the covered business.
The required capital for the EEV calculations has therefore been set to the minimum regulatory capital.
The EEV includes a reduction for the cost of holding the required capital.
No allowance has been made for any potential adjustment that the investors may apply because they do not have direct control over their capital.
Any such adjustment would be subjective, as different investors will have different views of what, if any, adjustment should be made.
g New business The new business contribution arising from reported new business premiums has been calculated using the same assumptions as used in the EEV at the end of the financial year.
The value of contractual incremental premiums to existing business is treated as new business in the year of the increment, rather than at the outset of the policy.
This approach better reects the way the Group manages its business.
The value of new business has been established at the end of the reporting period and has been calculated using actual acquisition costs.
h Expenses The expense assumptions include allowance for both the costs charged by the relevant third party administrators for acquisition and maintenance, and the corporate costs incurred in respect of covered business.
The corporate costs have been apportioned so that the total maintenance costs represent the anticipated ongoing expenses, including systems development costs, which are expected to arise in future years in meeting the policy servicing requirements of the in-force business.
i Taxation The EEV includes the present value of tax relief on life assurance expenses calculated on a market-consistent basis.
This calculation takes into account all expense and income amounts projected for the in-force business including any carried forward unutilised relief on expenses.
119 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006
