208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 110 Notes to the Parent Company Accounts 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation St. Jamess Place plc the Company is a limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales and whose shares are publicly traded.
The Company offers a range of insurance, investment and other wealth management services through its subsidiaries, which are principally incorporated in the UK and Ireland.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost convention.
The Company has elected to continue to prepare the parent financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In publishing the parent company financial statements, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part of these financial statements.
All accounting policies have been reviewed for appropriateness in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18 Accounting Policies.
In accordance with FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements, the company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash ow statement on the grounds that this is provided in its consolidated financial statements, which are publicly available.
Accounting policy changes Share-based payment FRS20 Share-based Payment has been adopted for the year ended 31 December 2006, and the 2005 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Under FRS20 the cost of equity instruments in the Company granted to employees and members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership are measured at fair value at grant date and recognised over the vesting period within St. Jamess Place Management Services Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
In addition, a deferred tax asset, representing the expected future tax deduction in respect of instruments granted and based on intrinsic value, is also recognised within St. Jamess Place Management Services.
Corresponding adjustments are made within its reserves.
Within the accounts of the Company, the gross cost of the share awards is treated as an investment in subsidiaries, with a corresponding adjustment to non-distributable reserves.
The effect of this change has been to increase investment in subsidiaries and net assets by 13.3 million as at 31 December 2006 2005: 5.7 million.
There is no impact on the profit of the Company.
significant accounting policies a Investment return Investment return comprises dividends from subsidiaries, which are accounted for when received.
109 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006
