208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 72 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments in applying accounting policies Judgements The primary area in which the Group has applied judgement in applying accounting policies lies in the classication and unbundling of contracts between insurance and investment business.
Contracts with a significant degree of insurance risk are treated as insurance: pension contracts in general have been treated as investment contracts and, where they contain a significant degree of insurance risk, they have been unbundled.
All other contracts are treated as investment contracts.
The Group has also elected to treat all assets backing linked and non unit-linked contracts as fair value through profit or loss although some of the assets in question may ultimately be held to maturity.
Estimates The principal areas in which the Group applies accounting estimates are: providing for long-term insurance business: deciding the amount of management expenses that are treated as acquisition expenses: amortisation and recoverability of deferred acquisition costs and deferred income: and determining the fair value, amortisation and recoverability of acquired in-force business.
Estimates are also applied in determining the level of deferred tax asset on unrelieved expenses and other provisions these are set out in notes 12 and 21 respectively.
The Group has applied estimation techniques consistent with those applied for the prior year accounts, except in the application of PS06 14, which has been applied in full and has had a significant effect on the reported results.
Providing for long-term insurance business In 2006 the FSA made changes to the reserving requirements for insurance contracts through PS06 14.
The most important change was to introduce an allowance for the effect of lapses.
However they also made a distinction between attributable and non-attributable expenses and required only that non-attributable expenses be reserved for at portfolio level.
The lapse assumption was set prudently based on an investigation of experience during the year, as was the level of attributable expenses.
No additional reserve was required for non-attributable expenses, as the future costs were less than future margins emerging.
The adoption of PS06 14 has increased pre-tax profits by 14.7 million in 2006.
The other assumptions used in the calculation of insurance business liabilities that have a significant effect on the income statement of the Group are the assumed rate of investment return based on the regulatory maximum rounded to the lower 0.1% and the mortality and morbidity tables used for the calculation of non-linked insurance liabilities based on the results of an investigation of experience during the year.
Greater detail on the assumptions applied is shown in note 19.
Other estimates Certain management expenses vary with the level of sales and have been treated as acquisition costs.
Each line of costs has been reviewed and its variability to sales volumes estimated on the basis of the level of costs that would be incurred if sales ceased.
Deferred acquisition costs and income on investment contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over the average lifetime of the underlying contracts.
The average lifetime of the contracts has been estimated from the experienced termination rates and the average age of clients at inception and maturity.
71 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006
