208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 64 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards 1.
Accounting policies St. Jamess Place plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
Statement of Compliance The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The Group has applied all IFRSs and interpretations adopted by the EU including all amendments to existing standards that are not effective until later accounting periods, except for the following: Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures IFRS 7 Financial Instruments:Disclosures The effective date for both this amendment and the new standard is 1 January 2007, and it is likely that further disclosures will be required when the standards are applied.
The group financial statements also comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005 in so far as these requirements do not contradict IFRS requirements.
Basis of Preparation The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds.
They are prepared on a historical cost basis except for assets classied as investment property, investments and currency forwards, which are held at fair value.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, assets and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgment made by management in the application of IFRSs that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 2.
63 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 65 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Summary of significant Accounting Policies a Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information incorporates the assets, liabilities and the results of the Company and of its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group directly or indirectly has the power to govern the financial and operating policies in order to gain benets from its activities including unit trusts in which the Group holds more than half of the units.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intragroup balances, and any income and expenses or unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Product classication The Groups products are classied for accounting purposes as either insurance contracts or investment contracts.
Insurance contracts are contracts which transfer significant insurance risk.
Contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are treated as investment contracts.
Where contracts contain both insurance and investment components and the investment components can be measured reliably, specically unit linked pension contracts, the contracts are unbundled and the components are separately accounted for as insurance contracts and investment contracts respectively.
c Long-term business i Premium income For unit linked insurance contracts, premiums are recognised as revenue when the liabilities arising from them are recognised.
All other premiums are accounted for when due for payment.
Investment contract premiums are not included in the income statement but are reported as deposits to investment contract liabilities in the balance sheet.
ii Revenue from investment contracts Fees charged for services related to the management of investment contracts are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of services, are deferred and amortised over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
iii Claims For insurance contracts, death claims are accounted for on notication of death.
Surrenders for non-linked policies are accounted for when payment is made.
Critical illness claims are accounted for when admitted.
All other claims and surrenders are accounted for when payment is due.
For investment contracts, benets paid are not included in the income statement but are instead deducted from investment contract liabilities.
The movement in investment contract benets represents the investment return credited to policyholders.
iv Acquisition costs For insurance contracts, acquisition costs comprise direct costs such as initial commission and the indirect costs of obtaining and processing new business.
Acquisition costs which are incurred during a financial year are deferred by use of an explicit asset which is amortised over the period during which the costs are expected to be recoverable and in accordance with the incidence of future related margins.
64 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 66 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued For investment contracts, only directly related acquisition costs, which vary with and are related to securing new contracts and renewing existing contracts, are deferred to the extent that they are recoverable out of future revenue.
These deferred acquisition costs, which represent the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services, are amortised on a straight line basis over the average lifetime of the Groups investment contracts.
All other costs are recognised as expenses when incurred.
Where contracts contain both insurance and investment components, specically unit linked pension contracts, the associated deferred acquisition costs are classied as deferred acquisition costs on investment contracts.
The associated deferred income on such contracts is included in deferred income on investment contracts.
v Insurance contract liabilities Under current IFRS requirements, insurance contract liabilities are measured using accounting policies consistent with those adopted previously under existing accounting practices.
Insurance contract liability provisions are determined following an annual actuarial investigation of the long-term fund in accordance with regulatory requirements.
The provisions are calculated on the basis of current information and using the gross premium valuation method.
The Groups accounting policies for insurance contracts meet the minimum specified requirements for liability adequacy testing under IFRS 4, as they consider current estimates of all contractual cash ows, and of related cash ow such as claims handling costs.
Long-term business provisions can never be denitive as to their timing nor the amount of claims and are therefore subject to subsequent reassessment on a regular basis.
vi Investment contracts Investment contracts consist of unit linked contracts.
Unit linked liabilities are measured at fair value by reference to the value of the underlying net asset value of the Groups unitised investment funds, determined on a bid value, at the balance sheet date.
An allowance for deduction of future tax to be paid in respect of unrealised capital gains, discounted to reect the time period over which such gains are expected to be realised, is also reected in the measurement of unit linked liabilities.
Investment contracts are recognised when the associated unit liability has been created: they are derecognised when the unit liability has been extinguished.
The decision by the Group to designate its unit linked liabilities as fair value through the income statement reects the fact that the underlying investment portfolio is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
vii Insurance contract receivables and payables Insurance contract receivables and payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
d Reinsurance The Groups insurance subsidiaries cede insurance premiums and risk in the normal course of business.
Outwards reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the related premiums for the direct reinsurance business being reinsured.
Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses, ceded unearned premiums and ceded future life policy benets.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the claim liability associated with the reinsured policy.
Reinsurance liabilities represent amounts due to reinsurers under financial reassurance arrangements in connection with the Groups critical illness claims experience: these arrangements are being terminated.
The outstanding balance is calculated based on recognised actuarial principles in line with the methodology applied in the determination of insurance contract liabilities.
65 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 67 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued e Fee & commission income Fee & commission income primarily consists of management fees on investment contracts see accounting policy note c ii and commission due in respect of products sold on behalf of third parties.
Commission is recognised in full on acceptance and inception of the policy by the product provider.
Where the product provider retains the right to clawback of commission on an indemnity basis, turnover on sale of these products is recognised net of a provision for the estimated clawback.
f Investment return Investment return comprises investment income and investment gains and losses.
Investment income includes dividends, interest and rental income from investment properties under operating leases.
Dividends are accrued on an ex-dividend basis, and rental income is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest, which is generated on assets classied as fair value through profit and loss, is accounted for on an accruals basis.
g Revenue Revenue consists principally of premium income, fee and commission income and investment return.
Accounting policies in respect of each of these are set out in the following accounting policy notes: Premium income: c i Fee & commission income: e Investment return: f h Expenses i Operating lease payments Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership is retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense and are spread over the life of the lease.
ii Financing costs Financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method.
i Income taxes Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax payable by the Group in respect of policyholders and shareholders.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
i Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
ii Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
66 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 68 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
iii Policyholder and shareholder tax The total income tax expense for a period includes tax which is not related to profits earned by shareholders for the period, being the tax that is attributed to policyholders in the unit linked funds.
The tax charge in the income statement is therefore analysed between shareholders tax and policyholders tax, the latter reecting tax charges paid by the unit linked funds to relevant tax authorities and the movement in deferred tax on unrealised capital gains provided within the UK unit linked funds.
j Dividends Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as liabilities in the period in which the dividends are declared, and, for the final dividend, when approved by the Companys shareholders at the annual general meeting.
k Intangible assets i Deferred acquisition costs See accounting policy note c iv.
ii Acquired value of in-force business The acquired value of in-force business in respect of insurance business represents the profits that are expected to emerge from insurance business acquired on business combinations.
It is calculated at the time of acquisition using best estimate actuarial assumptions for interest, mortality, persistency and expenses, and it is amortised over the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
An intangible asset is also recognised in respect of acquired investment management contracts representing the fair value of contractual rights acquired under those contracts.
The acquired value of in-force business is expressed as a gross gure in the balance sheet with the associated tax included within deferred tax liabilities.
iii Goodwill Goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries prior to 1 January 2004 has been charged directly to reserves.
Prospectively the Groups policy is to recognise goodwill on the balance sheet as an intangible asset, measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
l Property & equipment Items of property & equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses see accounting policy note q.
The deemed cost of owner occupied property is the fair value by a determined independent valuer as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the property and equipment as follows: Computers: 3 years Fixtures and ttings: 5 years Ofce equipment: 5 years Motor vehicles: 4 years Buildings: 50 years 67 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 69 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued m Investment property Investment properties, which are all held within the unit linked funds, are properties which are held to earn rental income and or for capital appreciation.
They are stated at fair value.
An external, independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualication and recent experience in the location and category of property being valued, values the portfolio every month.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the income statement.
Rental income from investment property is accounted for as described in accounting policy note f. n Investments The Groups investments are all classied as fair value through profit and loss, with all gains and losses recognised within investment income in the income statement.
The fair values of quoted financial investments, which represent the vast majority of the Groups investments, are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial investment is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques such as recent arms length transactions, reference to similar listed investments, discounted cash ow models or option pricing models.
The decision by the Group to designate its investments at fair value through the income statement reects the fact that the investment portfolio is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
The Group recognises purchases and sales of investments on trade date.
The costs associated with investment transactions are included within administration expenses in the income statement.
o Currency forwards The Group uses currency forwards within some unit linked funds to hedge exposure to foreign currency.
Each contract is recognised initially and subsequently at fair value, based on quoted market prices with all changes in value recognised in the income statement.
p Other receivables Other receivables are stated at amortised cost less impairment losses.
q Impairment policy Formal reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred acquisition costs on insurance and investment contracts and the acquired value of in-force business are carried out at each balance sheet date.
The recoverability of such assets is measured and the asset is deemed impaired if the projected future margins are less than the carrying value of the asset.
The carrying amounts of the Groups other assets that are not carried at fair value are also reviewed to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If there is any indication of irrecoverability or impairment, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on its estimated future cash ows.
Impairment losses are reversed through the income statement if there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Such losses are reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation where applicable, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
68 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 70 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued r Cash & cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments, and bank overdrafts to the extent that the Group has a right of set-off.
s Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events such that it is probable that an outow of economic benets will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
The Group recognises provisions for onerous contracts when the expected benets to be derived from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
t Borrowings Borrowings are measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
The difference between the proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the borrowing period on an effective interest rate basis.
Borrowings are recognised on drawdown and derecognised on repayment.
u Other payables Other payables are stated at amortised cost.
v Net asset value attributable to unit holders The Group consolidates unit trusts in which it holds more than half of the units.
The third party interests in these unit trusts are measured at fair value and are shown in the balance sheet as net assets attributable to unit holders.
Income attributable to the holdings is accounted for within investment income, offset by a corresponding change in investment contract benets.
w Employee benets i Pension obligations The Group operates a dened contribution personal pension plan for its employees.
Contributions to this plan are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
The Group also has an occupational pension scheme with both a dened contribution and a dened benefit section, both of which are closed to new members.
Contributions to the dened contribution section, in respect of existing members, are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
The dened benefit section has no active members and there are thus no employer contributions.
The residual liabilities to the current and deferred pensioners have been matched by purchased annuities both immediate and deferred from insurance companies and therefore no surplus or deficit will arise.
ii Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment plans.
The fair value of equity instruments granted is recognised as an expense spread over the vesting period of the instrument, with a corresponding increase in equity in the case of equity settled plans.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards at the grant date, measured using standard option pricing models.
69 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 71 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments that are expected to vest and it recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, such that the amount recognised for employee services are based on the number of shares that actually vest.
The charge to the income statement is not revised for any changes in market vesting conditions.
x T reasury shares Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from equity attributable to shareholders, as disclosed in the Treasury Shares reserve.
Where such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in equity attributable to shareholders, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects.
y Foreign currency translation The Groups presentational currency is pounds sterling.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign operations is the currency of the primary economic environment in which these entities operate.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling using the approximate exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gain or losses on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities which are held at historical cost are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the date of transaction: those held at fair value are translated using exchange rates ruling at the date on which the fair value was determined.
z Segment reporting The principal activity of the Group is the transaction of long-term insurance and investment business and the Group segments its operations by lines of business: life, unit trust and other business revenues.
Revenues and expenses allocated to business units reect those revenues and expenses generated in or incurred by the legal entities comprising the segments.
Separate geographical segmental information is not presented since the Group does not segment its business geographically, its customer base being based and its assets managed predominantly in the United Kingdom.
aa Current and non-current disclosure Assets which are expected to be recovered or settled no more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are disclosed as current within the notes to the accounts.
Those expected to be recovered or settled more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
Liabilities which are expected and due to be settled no more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are disclosed as current within the notes to the accounts.
Those liabilities which are expected and due to be settled more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
Deferred tax balances are all treated as non-current.
70 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006
