208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 119 Notes to the European Embedded Value Basis I.
Basis of preparation The supplementary information on pages 115 to 125 shows the Groups results as measured on a European Embedded Value EEV basis.
This includes the results of the life, pension and investment business, including unit trust business, undertaken by the Group on a basis determined in accordance with the EEV Principles issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Ofcers Forum, a group of chief financial ofcers from 19 major European insurers, as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on EEV disclosures issued in October 2005 together the EEV Principles.
The treatment of all other transactions and balances is unchanged from the primary financial statements on an IFRS basis.
The objectives of the EEV basis is to provide shareholders with more realistic information on the financial position and performance of the Group than that provided by the IFRS basis.
Under the EEV methodology, profit is recognised as it is earned over the life of the products within the covered business.
The embedded value of the covered business is the sum of the shareholders net worth in respect of the covered business and the present value of the projected profit stream.
Methodology a Covered business The covered business is the life, pension and investment business, including unit trust business, undertaken by the Group.
b Calculation of EEV profit from existing business comprises the expected return on the value of in-force business at the start of the year plus the impact of any changes in the assumptions regarding future operating experience, plus changes in reserving basis other than economic assumption changes, plus profits and losses caused by differences between the actual experience for the period and the assumptions used to calculate the embedded value at the end of the period.
c Allowance for risk The allowance for risk in the shareholder cash ows is a key feature of the EEV Principles.
The EEV Principles set out three main areas of allowance for risk in the embedded value: The risk discount rate The allowance for the cost of financial options and guarantees The cost of holding both prudential reserves and any additional capital required The reported EEV allows for risk via a risk discount rate based on a bottom-up market-consistent approach, plus an appropriate additional margin for non-market risk.
The Group does not offer products that carry any significant financial guarantees or options.
d Deriving the risk discount rate A market-consistent embedded value for each product class has been calculated.
In principle, each cash ow is valued using the discount rate applied to such a cash ow in the capital markets.
However in practice, where cash ows are either independent or move linearly with market movement, it is possible to apply a simplied method known as the certainty equivalent approach.
Under this approach all assets are assumed to earn the risk free rate and are discounted using that risk free rate.
A market-consistent cost of holding the required capital has also been calculated.
118 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006
