208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 88 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 20.
Insurance risk The Group assumes insurance risk through the issuance of insurance contracts under which the Group agrees to compensate the policyholder or other beneciary if a specified uncertain future event the insured event affecting the policyholder occurs.
The Group insures mortality and morbidity risks.
Risk management objectives and risk policies The Group has a medium appetite for insurance risk to accept where nancially beneficial, or in support of strategic objectives and seeks to manage solvency risk and profit volatility through the use of reassurance, reviewable terms, regular review of pricing and underwriting controls.
Terms and conditions The terms and conditions of the insurance contracts offered by the Group determine the level of risk accepted by the Group.
The general terms and conditions of the main insurance contracts and the associated risks are set out in the table below.
The Group has no with-profit contracts.
Category Essential T erms Main Risks Policyholder Guarantee Unit linked reviewable Deductions from units Expense No significant assurances pay for benets.
Deductions guarantees are reviewable at any time Conventional reviewable Regular premiums pay Mortality, Premium level assurances for benets.
Premium level is morbidity, guaranteed between reviewable every fifth policy expense reviews anniversary Conventional guaranteed Premium level xed Mortality, Premium assurances throughout life expense and benefit level guaranteed 87 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 23 3 07 13:05 Page 89 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued Management of risks The table below summarises the main risks to which the insurance business is exposed and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Risk Description Management Underwriting Failure to price appropriately Experience is monitored regularly.
for a risk, or the impact For most business the premium of anti-selection or deduction rates can be re-set.
Epidemic disaster An unusually large number of Protection is provided through claims arising from a single reassurance.
incident or event Expense Administration costs exceed Administration is outsourced expense allowance and the contract monitored regularly.
Sensitivity analysis The table below sets out the sensitivity of the profit and net assets to key assumptions.
The analysis reects the change in the variable assumption shown while all other variables assumptions are left unchanged.
In practice variables assumptions may change at the same time as some may be correlated for example, an increase in interest rates may also result in an increase in expenses if the increase reects higher ination.
It should also be noted that in some instances sensitivities are non-linear.
Sensitivity analysis Change in Change in Change in Change in Change in assumptions profit profit net assets net assets before tax before tax 2006 2005 2006 2005 % Million Million Million Million Expense assumptions -10% 2.1 4.3 1.8 3.9 Mortality morbidity -5% 0.2 1.6 0.2 1.4 A change in interest rates will have no material impact on insurance profit or net assets.
88 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006
