208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 92 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 26.
Other payables 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 Million Million Accruals 44.9 32.8 Miscellaneous 22.1 14.0 Unit linked funds 33.5 24.6 Total other payables 100.5 71.4 All other payable balances are considered current.
The fair value of the other payables is not materially different from amortised cost.
Financial risk Risk management objectives and risk policies The Group adopts a risk averse approach to financial risk with a stated policy of not actively pursuing and accepting financial risk except when necessary to support other objectives.
The Group seeks to manage risk through the use of unit-linking for policyholder benets and investing shareholder assets in highly rated investments.
Market risk In order to limit the exposure of the Group to market risk, the majority of the Groups business is unit-linked, for which policyholders carry the financial risk.
This removes any risk associated with being able to meet policyholders liabilities.
However, a reduction in the market value of the unit-linked funds would affect the annual management charges accruing to the Group, since these charges are based on the market value of funds under management.
The associated reduction in dividends could also result in the deferral of tax relief on UK life business expenses and indirectly could also be associated with a reduction in the volume of new business sales.
Credit and interest rate risk Shareholders funds are invested in AAA rated unitised money market funds and deposits with approved banks, in accordance with the SJP Group Credit Policy, with a view to minimising credit and market risk.
Maximum counterparty limits set for each company within the Group and aggregate limits are also set at a Group level.
Non-linked liabilities are matched by xed interest securities with minimum AA credit ratings: maximum counterparty limits are again set for each company within the Group and at an aggregate Group level.
All xed interest securities held by the Group are xed rate and the Group is therefore not subject to cash ow interest rate risk.
Fair value interest rate risk is not material since non-linked liabilities tend to move in line with the matching asset values, as a consequence of asset liability matching, although there is some residual risk due to imperfect matching.
Reinsurance risk is managed in accordance with the Groups Reinsurance Policy with credit ratings of potential reinsurers required to meet or exceed minimum specified levels.
Consideration is also given to size, risk concentrations exposures and ownership in the selection of reinsurers.
The Group also seeks to diversify its reinsurance credit risk through the use of a range of reinsurers.
91 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006
