Shareholder Information Dividend and Interest Payment Dates Interim dividend Ordinary shares Final dividend provisional only Results and dividend announced 27 February 2007 7 August 2007 Ex dividend date 7 March 2007 15 August 2007 Record date for dividend 9 March 2007 17 August 2007 Last date to elect for share dividend or to change standing instructions 20 April 2007 24 September 2007 Dividend payment date 11 May 2007 10 October 2007 Preference shares 1st half yearly dividend 2nd half yearly dividend 3 8 7 per cent Non-Cumulative Irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2007 1 October 2007 1 4 8 per cent Non-Cumulative Irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2007 1 October 2007 6.409 per cent Non-Cumulative preference shares of $5 each: first semi-annual dividend to be paid on 30 July 2007.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon UK time 7.00 pm Hong Kong time on Thursday 3 May 2007 at The Plaisterers Hall, 1 London Wall, London EC2Y 5JU.
Details of the business to be transacted at the AGM are included in the accompanying Notice of AGM.
Details of voting at the Companys AGMs and of proxy votes cast can be found on our website: www.
com Interim Results The interim results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange, the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and put on our website: www.
com ShareCare ShareCare is available to shareholders on the United Kingdom register who have a United Kingdom address and bank account, and allows you to hold your Standard Chartered shares in a nominee account.
Your shares can be held in electronic form so you will no longer have to worry about keeping your share certificates safe.
If you join ShareCare you will still be invited to attend the Companys AGM and you will still receive your dividend at the same time as everyone else.
ShareCare is free to join and there are no annual fees to pay.
If you would like to receive more information please contact the shareholder helpline on 0870 702 0138.
Please contact our registrar for a mandate form.
looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These Registrars and Shareholder Enquiries forward looking statements can be identified by the fact that they If you have any enquiries relating to your shareholding and you do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward looking hold your shares on the United Kingdom register, please contact statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, our registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC, at PO Box estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, should, would, 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH.
There is could or other words of similar meaning.
Undue reliance should a shareholder helpline on 0870 702 0138.
If you hold your shares not be placed on any such statements because, by their very on the Hong Kong branch register please contact Computershare nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and Hong Kong Investor Services Limited at Rooms 1806-1807, uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could 18th Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, Hong Kong.
cause actual results, and the Groups plans and objectives, to You can check your shareholding at:www.
com differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward Chinese Translation looking statements.
If you would like a Chinese version of this Report and Accounts There are several factors which could cause actual results to please contact: differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited at Rooms looking statements.
Among the factors that could cause actual 1806-1807, 18th Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road results to differ materially from those described in the forward East, Hong Kong.
looking statements are changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future 183181806-1807 business combinations or dispositions.
Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register who have asked The Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update any to receive the Report and Accounts in either Chinese or English forward looking statement contained within this document, can change this election by contacting Computershare.
regardless of whether those statements are affected as a result If there is a dispute between any translation and the English of new information, future events or otherwise.
version of this Report and Accounts, the English text shall prevail.
Taxation Information on taxation applying to dividends paid to you if you are a shareholder in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong or the United States will be sent to you with your dividend documents.
Electronic Communications If you hold your shares on the United Kingdom register and in future you would like to receive the Report and Accounts electronically rather than by post, please register online at: www.
Then click on Update Shareholder Details and follow the instructions.
You will need to have your Shareholder or ShareCare Reference number when you log on.
You can find this on your share certificate or ShareCare statement.
