NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued NOTE 12Benefit Plans Years Ended November 30, Stock Incentive Plans 2005 2004 We issue our share-based compensation awards under the Net income, as reported.................... $ 2,253 $ 1,809 Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc stock plans, which have Share-based compensation expense included an aggregate of 39.1 million shares available for future grant in net income, as reported................ 12 11 at November 30, 2006.
These plans allow us to issue stock Total share-based compensation expense options, restricted stock awards and restricted stock units determined under the fair value-based a method for all awards................... 86 66 collectively incentive awards.
Incentive awards are primarily granted to management level employees and members of our Pro forma net income for basic earnings Board of Directors.
The plans are administered by a commitper share.............................. 2,179 1,754 Interest on dilutive convertible notes.......... 47 49 tee of our independent directors the Committee, that determines who is eligible to participate, the number of shares Pro forma net income for diluted earnings for which incentive awards are to be granted and the amounts per share.............................. $ 2,226 $ 1,803 that may be exercised within a specified term.
These plans Earnings per share allow us to fulfill our incentive award obligations using shares Basic purchased in the open market, or with unissued or treasury As reported.......................... $ 2.80 $ 2.25 shares.
Certain incentive awards provide for accelerated vestPro forma............................ $ 2.70 $ 2.19 ing if we have a change in control, as defined.
Effective December 1, 2005, we adopted the provisions of Diluted As reported.......................... $ 2.70 $ 2.18 SFAS No.
123 R, which required us to measure and recognize compensation expense for all share-based compensation Pro forma............................ $ 2.62 $ 2.13 awards.
The total share-based compensation expense was a These amounts include the expensing of stock options made to retirement- $68 million for fiscal 2006, of which $60 million has been eligible employees over the expected vesting period of the option and included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as accounting for the impact of forfeitures as they occur.
selling, general and administrative expenses and $8 million as As permitted by SFAS No.
fair values of options were estimated using the Black-Scholes Prior to December 1, 2005, we did not recognize comoption-pricing model.
The Black-Scholes weighted-average pensation expense for the issuance of stock options with an values and assumptions were as follows: exercise price equal to or greater than the market price of Years Ended November 30, the underlying shares at the date of grant.
Had we elected to 2006 2005 2004 charge earnings for the estimated fair value of stock options in Fair value of options at the prior years, our pro forma net income and pro forma earnings dates of grant................ $12.25 $12.99 $15.87 per share would have been as follows in millions, except per a share amounts : Risk-free interest rate........... 4.5% 4.1% 3.4% Expected dividend yield.......... 2.6% 1.9% 1.36% b Expected volatility............. 29.2% 27.0% 35.0% c Expected option life in years.... 4.75 4.74 5.75 a The risk-free interest rate is based on U. S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a remaining term equal to the expected option life assumed at the date of grant.
b The expected volatility is based on a weighting of the implied volatilities derived from our exchange traded options and convertible notes and the historical volatility of our common stock.
c The average expected life was based on the contractual term of the option and expected employee exercise behavior.
Based on our assessment of employee groupings and observable behaviors, we determined that a single grouping is appropriate.
page 26 | Carnival Corporation & plc Stock Option Plans The Committee generally sets stock option exercise prices at 100% or more of the fair market value of the underlying common stock ordinary shares on the date the option is granted.
All stock options granted during the years ended November 30, 2006 and 2005 were granted at an exercise price per share equal to or greater than the fair market value of the Carnival Corporation common stock and Carnival plc ordinary shares on the date of grant.
Generally employee options either vest evenly over five years or at the end of three years.
Our employee options granted prior to October 2005 have a ten-year term and those options granted thereafter have a seven-year term.
Since fiscal 2001, Carnival Corporation director options vest evenly over five years and have a ten-year term.
As of the dates of exercise, the total intrinsic value of options of November 30, 2005 was required to be charged against exercised in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $48 million, additional paid-in capital.
RSAs have been granted to certain $37 million and $77 million, respectively.
As of November 30, officers and non-executive board members and either have 2006, there was $86 million of total unrecognized compenthree or five-year cliff vesting or vest evenly over five years sation cost related to unvested stock options.
This cost is after the grant date.
In addition, Carnival Corporation and expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period Carnival plc grant restricted stock units RSUs, which do of 1.9 years.
not have an exercise price, and either vest evenly over five years or at the end of three or five years after the grant date Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units and accrue dividend equivalents on each outstanding RSU, Restricted stock awards RSAs generally have the same in the form of additional RSUs, based on dividends declared.
rights as Carnival Corporation common stock, except for The share-based compensation expense associated with transfer restrictions and forfeiture provisions.
In prior periods, RSAs and RSUs is based on the quoted market price of the unearned stock compensation was recorded within shareCarnival Corporation or Carnival plc shares on the date of holders equity at the date of award based on the quoted grant, and is amortized to expense using the straight-line market price of the Carnival Corporation common stock on method from the grant date through the earlier of the vesting the date of grant.
In fiscal 2006, upon adoption of SFAS No.
date or the estimated retirement eligibility date.
As of November 30, 2006, there was our share of the liability certain, we could not record our was $19 million of total unrecognized compensation cost estimated share of the ultimate deficit as a Carnival plc acquirelated to RSAs and RSUs.
This cost is expected to be recogsition liability that existed at the DLC transaction date.
The nized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years.
amount of our share of the funds ultimate deficit could vary considerably if different pension assumptions and or estimates Defined Benefit Pension Plans were used.
Therefore, we expense our portion of any deficit We have several defined benefit pension plans, which as amounts are invoiced by, and become due and payable to, cover some of our shipboard and shoreside employees.
In August 2005, we received an invoice U. S. and UK shoreside employee plans are closed to new from the fund for what the trustee calculated to be our share membership and are funded at or above the level required by of the entire MNOPF liability based on their March 31, 2003 U. S. or UK regulations.
The remaining defined benefit plans actuarial study.
Accordingly, we recorded the full invoiced are primarily unfunded.
In determining our plans benefit liability of $23 million in payroll and related expense in 2005. obligations at November 30, 2006, we assumed weightedHowever, based on the MNOPFs March 31, 2006 preliminary average discount rates of 5.5% and 4.9% for our U. S. and valuation of the deficit liability as at that date, we expect to foreign plans, respectively.
The net liabilities related to the receive a second MNOPF invoice in mid-2007 of between obligations under these single employer defined benefit approximately $15 million and $35 million, which represents our pension plans are not material.
estimate of our additional share of the entire MNOPF liability.
In addition, P&O Cruises, Princess and Cunard participate It is still possible that the funds trustee may invoice us for in an industry-wide British Merchant Navy Officers Pension additional amounts after this second invoice for various reasons, Fund MNOPF, which is a defined benefit multiemployer including if they believe the fund requires further funding.
pension plan that is available to certain of their British shipTotal expense for all defined benefit pension plans, includboard officers.
The MNOPF is divided into two sections, the ing multiemployer plans, was $28 million, $45 million and New Section and the Old Section, each of which covers $18 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
a different group of participants, with the Old Section closed to further benefit accrual and the New Section only closed to Defined Contribution Plans new membership.
At November 30, 2006, the New Section We have several defined contribution plans available to was estimated to have a funding deficit and the Old Section most of our employees.
We contribute to these plans based was estimated to have a funding surplus.
on employee contributions, salary levels and length of service.
Substantially all of any MNOPF New Section deficit liability Total expense relating to these plans was $17 million, $14 milwhich we may have relates to P&O Cruises and Princess lion and $13 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
obligations, which existed prior to the DLC transaction.
