NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Ship improvement costs that we believe add value to our NOTE 2 Summary of Significant ships are capitalized to the ships, and depreciated over the Accounting Policies improvements estimated useful lives, while costs of repairs Basis of Presentation and maintenance and minor replacement costs are charged to We consolidate entities over which we have control see expense as incurred.
Upon replacement or refurbishment of Note 3, as typically evidenced by a direct ownership interest previously capitalized ship components, these assets estiof greater than 50%.
For affiliates where significant influence mated cost and accumulated depreciation are written off.
We over financial and operating policies exists, as typically evicapitalize interest on ships and other capital projects during denced by a direct ownership interest from 20% to 50%, the their construction period.
investment is accounted for using the equity method.
We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments amount of these assets may not be fully recoverable.
The Cash and cash equivalents include investments with maturassessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to ities of three months or less at acquisition, which are stated at recover the carrying value of our asset based on our estimate cost.
At November 30, 2006 and 2005, cash and cash equivaof its undiscounted future cash flows.
If these estimated lents included $936 million and $980 million of investments, undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying respectively, primarily comprised of money market funds, value of the asset, an impairment charge is recognized for the time deposits and commercial paper.
excess, if any, of the assets carrying value over its estimated As of November 30, 2006 and 2005, our short-term investfair value.
Purchases and sales of short-term investments included in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Dry-dock Costs Flows consisted of investments with original maturities greater Dry-dock costs primarily represent planned major maintethan three months with variable interest rates, which typically finance activities that are incurred when a ship is taken out of reset every 28 days.
Despite the long-term nature of their service for scheduled maintenance.
During 2006 we elected stated contractual maturities, we have the ability to quickly to change our method of accounting for dry-dock costs from liquidate these securities.
All income generated from these the deferral method, under which we amortized our deferred investments was recorded as interest income.
dry-dock costs over the estimated period of benefit between dry-docks, to the direct expense method, under which we Inventories expense all dry-dock costs as incurred.
We believe the direct Inventories consist of provisions, gift shop and art merchanmethod is preferable as it eliminates the significant amount of dise held for resale, fuel and supplies carried at the lower of time and subjectivity that is needed to determine which costs cost or market.
Cost is determined using the weighted-average and activities related to dry-docking should be deferred.
In or first-in, first-out methods.
connection with adopting this change in accounting policy, Property and Equipment we elected to early adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Property and equipment are stated at cost.
154, Accounting Changes and Error and amortization were computed using the straight-line method Corrections, which requires that we report changes in over our estimates of average useful lives and residual values, accounting policy by retrospectively applying the new policies as a percentage of original cost, as follows: to all prior periods presented, unless it is impractical to deterResidual mine the prior period impacts.
Accordingly, we have previously Values Years adjusted our financial statements for all periods presented for Ships.......................... 15% 30 this change in dry-dock policy.
The effects of this change in Ship improvements............... 0% or 15% 3 to remaining accounting policy for the years ended and at November 30 life of ship were as follows in millions, except earnings per share : Buildings and improvements....... 010% 535 Transportation equipment and other..................... 015% 220 Leasehold improvements, Shorter of including port facilities.......... lease term or related asset life page 10 | Carnival Corporation & plc Consolidated Statements of Operations 2006 2005 2004 Deferral Direct Effect of Deferral Direct Effect of Deferral Direct Effect of a Method Method Change Method Method Change Method Method Change Other ship operating expenses....... $1,484 $1,538 $ 54 $1,461 $1,465 $ 4 $1,270 $1,315 $ 45 Net income....................... $2,333 $2,279 $ 54 $2,257 $2,253 $ 4 $1,854 $1,809 $ 45 Earnings per share Basic.......................... $ 2.92 $ 2.85 $ 0.07 $ 2.80 $ 2.80 $0.00 $ 2.31 $ 2.25 $ 0.06 Diluted......................... $ 2.83 $ 2.77 $ 0.06 $ 2.70 $ 2.70 $0.00 $ 2.24 $ 2.18 $ 0.06 Consolidated Balance Sheets 2006 2005 Deferral Direct Effect of Deferral Direct Effect of a Method Method Change Method Method Change Prepaid expenses and other................................... $ 434 $ 289 $ 145 $ 352 $ 263 $ 89 Retained earnings........................................... $11,746 $11,600 $ 146 $ 10,233 $ 10,141 $ 92 Accumulated other comprehensive income...................... $ 660 $ 661 $ 1 $ 156 $ 159 $ 3 a The amounts disclosed under the deferral method for the year ended and at November 30, 2006 are based on the estimated effect of not changing our dry-dock accounting method to the direct expense method for this current period.
Accordingly, these estimated current period amounts have not been previously reported, but are being disclosed in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No.
In addition, as a result of this change in accounting method Trademarks retained earnings at November 30, 2003 decreased by $43 The costs of developing and maintaining our trademarks million to $7.15 billion from $7.19 billion.
However, for acquisitions made after June 2001, we have allocated a portion of the purchase Goodwill price to the acquirees identified trademarks.
The trademarks We review our goodwill for impairment annually, or, when that Carnival Corporation recorded as part of its acquisition of events or circumstances dictate, more frequently.
All of our P&O Princess, which are estimated to have an indefinite usegoodwill has been allocated to our cruise reporting units.
ful life and, therefore, are not amortizable, are reviewed for There were no significant changes to our goodwill carrying impairment annually, or, when events or circumstances dictate, amounts since November 30, 2004, other than the changes more frequently.
Our trademarks would be considered impaired resulting from using different foreign currency translation rates if their carrying value exceeds their estimated fair value.
at each balance sheet date and a $20 million reduction to goodwill in fiscal 2006 resulting from the resolution of certain Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities P&O Princess Cruises plcs P&O Princess tax contingency We utilize derivative and nonderivative financial instruments, liabilities that existed at the time of the DLC transaction.
such as foreign currency swaps and foreign currency debt Our goodwill impairment reviews consist of a two-step obligations to limit our exposure to fluctuations in foreign process of first determining the fair value of the reporting unit currency exchange rates, and interest rate swaps to manage and comparing it to the carrying value of the net assets alloour interest rate exposure and to achieve a desired proportion cated to the reporting unit.
Fair values of our reporting units of variable and fixed rate debt see Notes 5 and 10. were determined based on our estimates of comparable market All derivatives are recorded at fair value, and the changes prices or discounted future cash flows.
If this fair value exceeds in fair value are immediately included in earnings if the derivathe carrying value, which was the case for our reporting units, tives do not qualify as being effective hedges.
If a derivative no further analysis or goodwill write-down is required.
If the is a fair value hedge, then changes in the fair value of the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value derivative are offset against the changes in the fair value of of the net assets, the implied fair value of the reporting unit is the underlying hedged item.
If a derivative is a cash flow allocated to all the underlying assets and liabilities, including hedge, then changes in the fair value of the derivative are both recognized and unrecognized tangible and intangible recognized as a component of accumulated other compreassets, based on their fair value.
If necessary, goodwill is then hensive income AOCI until the underlying hedged item written-down to its implied fair value.
If a derivative or a nonderivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of our net Carnival Corporation & plc | page 11 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued investment in a foreign subsidiary, then changes in the fair and on a pro rata basis for voyages in excess of ten nights.
value of the financial instrument are recognized as a compoFuture travel discount vouchers issued to guests are typically nent of AOCI to offset a portion of the change in the translated recorded as a reduction of revenues when such vouchers are value of the net investment being hedged, until the investment utilized.
Cancellation fees are recognized in revenues at the is liquidated.
We formally document all hedging relationships time of the cancellation.
Revenues and expenses from our for all derivative and nonderivative hedges and the underlying tour and travel services are recognized at the time the services hedged items, as well as our risk management objectives and are performed or expenses are incurred.
strategies for undertaking the hedge transactions.
Our sale to passengers of air and other transportation to We classify the fair value of our derivative contracts and and from our ships and the related cost of purchasing this the fair value of our offsetting hedged firm commitments as service is recorded as cruise passenger ticket revenues and either current or long-term, which are included in prepaid and cruise transportation costs, respectively, in the accompanying other assets and accrued and other liabilities, depending on Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The proceeds that whether the maturity date of the derivative contract is within we collect from the sale of third party shore excursions and or beyond one year from our balance sheet dates.
The cash on behalf of onboard concessionaires, net of the amounts flows from derivatives treated as hedges are classified in our remitted to them, are recorded as concession revenues, on Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the same category a net basis, in onboard and other cruise revenues.
Insurance Self-Insurance During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, all net changes in the We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance for fair value of both our fair value hedges and the offsetting a number of risks including claims related to crew and passenhedged firm commitments and our cash flow hedges were gers, hull and machinery, war risk, workers compensation, immaterial, as were any ineffective portions of these hedges.
property damage and general liability.
Liabilities associated No fair value hedges or cash flow hedges were derecognized with certain of these risks, including crew and passenger claims, or discontinued in fiscal 2006, 2005 or 2004.
In addition, the are estimated based on, among other things, historical claims amount of realized net losses or gains from cash flow hedges experience, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions.
that were reclassified into earnings during fiscal 2006, 2005 Our expected loss accruals are based on estimates, and while and 2004 were not significant.
The amount of estimated cash we believe the amounts accrued are adequate the ultimate flow hedges unrealized net losses which are expected to loss may differ from the amounts provided.
be reclassified to earnings in the next twelve months is not significant.
Selling and Administrative Expenses Finally, if any shipyard with which we have contracts to Selling expenses include items such as advertising, marketbuild our ships is unable to perform, we would be required ing, promotional and related costs.
Advertising costs are to perform under our foreign currency swaps related to these charged to expense as incurred except for brochures and shipbuilding contracts.
Accordingly, based upon the circummedia production costs.
The brochures and media production stances, we may have to discontinue the accounting for those costs are recorded as prepaid expenses and charged to expense currency swaps as hedges, if the shipyard cannot perform.
as consumed or upon the first airing of the advertisement, However, we believe that the risk of shipyard nonperformance respectively.
Advertising expenses totaled $464 million, $455 is remote.
million and $464 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
At November 30, 2006 and 2005, the amount of adverRevenue and Expense Recognition tising costs included in prepaid expenses was not significant.
Guest cruise deposits represent unearned revenues and Administrative expenses represent the costs of our shoreside are initially recorded as customer deposit liabilities when ship support, reservation and other administrative functions received.
Customer deposits are subsequently recognized as and include items such as salaries and related benefits, cruise revenues, together with revenues from onboard and professional fees and occupancy costs, which are typically other activities, which include transportation and shore excurexpensed as incurred.
sion revenues and all associated direct costs of a voyage, upon completion of voyages with durations of ten nights or less page 12 | Carnival Corporation & plc Foreign Currency Translations and Transactions Share-Based Compensation Our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates that have functional Effective December 1, 2005, we adopted the provisions currencies other than the U. S. dollar translate their assets of SFAS No.
123 revised 2004, Share-Based Payment and liabilities at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet SFAS No.
123 R, which requires us to measure and recdates.
Revenues and expenses of these foreign subsidiaries ognize compensation expense for all share-based compensaand affiliates are translated at weighted-average exchange tion awards.
123 R using the modified rates for the period.
Equity is translated at historical rates, and prospective application transition method.
Under this method, the resulting cumulative foreign currency translation adjustthe share-based compensation cost recognized beginning ments are included as a component of AOCI.
Therefore, the December 1, 2005 includes compensation cost for i all U. S. dollar value of these non-equity translated items in our share-based payments granted prior to, but not vested as of, financial statements will fluctuate from period to period, December 1, 2005, based on the grant date fair value originally depending on the changing value of the dollar against these estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation SFAS No.
Exchange gains and losses arising from the remeasurement 123, and ii all share-based payments granted subsequent of monetary assets and liabilities, and foreign currency transto November 30, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estiactions denominated in a currency other than the functional mated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
123 R. currency of the entity involved are immediately included in Prior to December 1, 2005, as allowed under the then outnonoperating earnings, unless such net liabilities have been standing accounting principles, we did not recognize compendesignated to act as hedges of a net investment in our foreign sation expense for the issuance of stock options with an subsidiaries.
In addition, the unrealized exchange gains or exercise price equal to or greater than the market price of the losses on our long-term intercompany receivables denomiunderlying shares at the date of grant.
nated in a non-functional currency, which are not expected Compensation cost under SFAS No.
123 R is recognized to be repaid in the foreseeable future and are therefore conratably using the straight-line attribution method over the sidered to form part of our net investment, are recorded as a expected vesting period or to the retirement eligibility date, if foreign currency translation adjustment, which is included as less than the vesting period, when vesting is not contingent a component of AOCI.
Finally, net foreign currency transaction upon any future performance.
In addition, pursuant to SFAS gains or losses recorded in our earnings were not significant No.
123 R we are required to estimate the amount of expected in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. forfeitures, which we estimate based on historical forfeiture experience, when calculating compensation cost.
If the actual Earnings Per Share forfeitures that occur are different than the estimate, then we Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income will revise our estimates.
The effect of adopting SFAS No.
by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock 123 R has been to reduce our net income by $57 million and and ordinary shares outstanding during each period.
Diluted our basic and diluted earnings per share by $0.07 for the year earnings per share is computed by dividing adjusted net ended November 30, 2006.
Prior periods are not restated income by the weighted-average number of shares of comunder this transition method.
mon stock and ordinary shares, common stock equivalents and other potentially dilutive securities outstanding during Concentrations of Credit Risk each period.
All shares that are issuable under our outstanding As part of our ongoing control procedures, we monitor convertible notes that have contingent share conversion feaconcentrations of credit risk associated with financial and tures have been considered outstanding for our diluted earnings other institutions with which we conduct significant business.
per share computations, if dilutive, using the if converted Credit risk, including counterparty nonperformance under method of accounting from the date of issuance.
derivative instruments, contingent obligations and new ship progress payment guarantees, is considered minimal, as we Carnival Corporation & plc | page 13
