NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued primarily conduct business with large, well-established  cial institutions who have long-term credit ratings of A or We have reclassified certain prior period amounts to conabove and we seek to diversify our counterparties.
In addition, form them to the current period presentation primarily as a we have established guidelines regarding credit ratings and result of our adopting a new chart of accounts in conjunction investment maturities that we follow to maintain safety and with our initial implementation of a new worldwide accounting liquidity.
We do not anticipate nonperformance by any of our system in the second quarter of 2006.
tation, we identified certain differences among our operating We also monitor the creditworthiness of foreign travel subsidiaries and, accordingly, we have recorded the appropriate agencies and tour operators to which we grant credit terms reclassifications in the prior periods to improve comparability.
in the normal course of our business.
Concentrations of credit risk associated with these receivables are considered minimal NOTE 3DLC Structure primarily due to their short maturities and the large number On April 17, 2003, Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc of accounts within our customer base.
We have experienced formerly known as P&O Princess completed a DLC transaconly minimal credit losses on our trade receivables.
We do not tion, which implemented Carnival Corporation & plcs DLC normally require collateral or other security to support normal structure.
The contracts governing the DLC structure provide credit sales.
However, we do normally require collateral and or that Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc each continue to guarantees to support notes receivable on significant asset have separate boards of directors, but the boards and senior sales and new ship progress payments to shipyards.
executive management of both companies are identical.
The amendments to the constituent documents of each of the companies also provide that, on most matters, the holders of the common equity of both companies effectively vote as a single body.
On specified matters where the interests of Carnival Corporations shareholders may differ from the interests of Carnival plcs shareholders a class rights action, each shareholder body will vote separately as a class, such as transactions primarily designed to amend or unwind the DLC structure.
Generally, no class rights action will be implemented unless approved by both shareholder bodies.
page 14 | Carnival Corporation & plc Upon the closing of the DLC transaction, Carnival Corporation guarantee provides that the creditors to whom the obligations and Carnival plc also executed the Equalization and Governance are owed are intended third party beneficiaries of such deed Agreement, which provides for the equalization of dividends of guarantee.
and liquidation distributions based on an equalization ratio and The deeds of guarantee are governed and construed in contains provisions relating to the governance of the DLC accordance with the laws of the Isle of Man.
Because the current equalization ratio is 1 to 1, one terms of the guarantees, the holders of indebtedness and Carnival plc ordinary share is entitled to the same distributions, other obligations that are subject to the guarantees will have subject to the terms of the Equalization and Governance recourse to both Carnival plc and Carnival Corporation though Agreement, as one share of Carnival Corporation common a Carnival plc creditor must first make written demand on stock.
In a liquidation of either company or both companies, Carnival plc and a Carnival Corporation creditor on Carnival if the hypothetical potential per share liquidation distributions Corporation.
Once the written demand is made by letter or to each companys shareholders are not equivalent, taking into other form of notice, the holders of indebtedness or other account the relative value of the two companies assets and obligations may immediately commence an action against the the indebtedness of each company, to the extent that one relevant guarantor.
Accordingly, there is no requirement under company has greater net assets so that any liquidation distrithe deeds of guarantee to obtain a judgment, take other bution to its shareholders would not be equivalent on a per enforcement actions or wait any period of time prior to taking share basis, the company with the ability to make a higher steps against the relevant guarantor.
All actions or proceedings net distribution is required to make a payment to the other arising out of or in connection with the deeds of guarantee company to equalize the possible net distribution to sharemust be exclusively brought in courts in England.
holders, subject to certain exceptions.
Under the terms of the DLC transaction documents, Carnival At the closing of the DLC transaction, Carnival Corporation Corporation and Carnival plc are permitted to transfer assets and Carnival plc also executed deeds of guarantee.
Under the between the companies, make loans or investments in each terms of Carnival Corporations deed of guarantee, Carnival other and otherwise enter into intercompany transactions.
Corporation has agreed to guarantee all indebtedness and The companies have entered into some of these types of certain other monetary obligations of Carnival plc that are transactions and expect to enter into additional transactions incurred under agreements entered into on or after the closing in the future to take advantage of the flexibility provided by date of the DLC transaction.
The terms of Carnival plcs deed the DLC structure and to operate both companies as a single of guarantee are identical to those of Carnival Corporations.
unified economic enterprise in the most effective manner.
In In addition, Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc have each addition, under the terms of the Equalization and Governance extended their respective deeds of guarantee to the others Agreement and the deeds of guarantee, the cash flow and pre-DLC indebtedness and certain other monetary obligations, assets of one company are required to be used to pay the or alternatively have provided standalone guarantees in lieu of obligations of the other company, if necessary.
utilization of these deeds of guarantee, thus effectively cross guaranteeing all Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc indebtedness and certain other monetary obligations.
Each deed of Carnival Corporation & plc | page 15
