If we were found not to qualify for exemption pursuant to An additional $1 billion repurchase authorization was approved applicable income tax treaties or under the Internal Revenue by the Boards of Directors in June 2006 subject to certain Code or if the income tax treaties or Internal Revenue Code restrictions.
During fiscal 2006 and 2005, we purchased 18.7 were to be changed in a manner adverse to us, a portion of million and 8.0 million shares of Carnival Corporation common our income would become subject to taxation by the U. S. at stock, respectively, and 0.6 million shares of Carnival plc ordihigher than normal corporate tax rates.
At February 9, 2007, the remaining P&O Cruises, Cunard, Ocean Village, P&O Cruises Australia, availability pursuant to our 2006 share repurchase program Swan Hellenic, AIDA and Costa, since the beginning of fiscal was $773 million.
No expiration date has been specified for 2005, are subject to income tax under the tonnage tax regimes this authorization.
of either the United Kingdom or Italy.
Under both tonnage tax At November 30, 2006, there were 71.7 million shares of regimes, shipping profits, as defined under the applicable law, Carnival Corporation common stock reserved for issuance are subject to corporation tax by reference to the net tonnage pursuant to its convertible notes and its employee benefit and of qualifying vessels.
Income not considered to be shipping dividend reinvestment plans.
In addition, Carnival plc shareprofits under tonnage tax rules is taxable under either the holders have authorized 12.9 million ordinary shares for future normal UK income tax rules or the Italian tax regime applicaissuance under its employee benefit plans.
We believe that substantially At November 30, 2006 and 2005, accumulated other comall of the ordinary income attributable to these brands constiprehensive income was as follows in millions : 2006 2005 tutes shipping profits and, accordingly, Italian and UK income tax expenses for these operations have been and are expected Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments, net........................... $689 $193 to be minimal under the current tax regimes.
Minimum pension liability adjustments........... 17 19 We do not expect to incur income taxes on future distriUnrealized losses on cash flow derivative butions of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries and, hedges, net............................... 11 15 accordingly, no deferred income taxes have been provided for $661 $159 the distribution of these earnings.
In addition to or in place of income taxes, virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose taxes based on passenger NOTE 10Financial Instruments counts, ship tonnage or some other measure.
These taxes, other than those directly charged to and or collected from Whenever possible, quoted prices in active markets are passengers by us on a per passenger headcount basis, are used to determine the fair value of financial instruments.
recorded as operating expenses in the accompanying However, considerable judgment is required in interpreting Consolidated Statements of Operations.
data to develop estimates for fair values for which there is no active market and, accordingly, amounts are not necessarily NOTE 9Shareholders Equity indicative of the amounts that we could realize in an active market exchange.
Our financial instruments are not held for Carnival Corporations articles of incorporation authorize its trading or other speculative purposes.
Board of Directors, at its discretion, to issue up to 40 million shares of preferred stock, and Carnival plc has 100,000 authoCash and Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments rized preference shares.
At November 30, 2006 and 2005, The carrying amounts of our cash and cash equivalents no Carnival Corporation preferred stock had been issued and and short-term investments approximate their fair values due only a nominal amount of Carnival plc preference shares had to their short maturities or variable interest rates.
Other Assets During 2004, the Boards of Directors authorized the repurAt November 30, 2006 and 2005, long-term other assets chase of up to an aggregate of $1 billion of Carnival Corporation included notes and other receivables and marketable securicommon stock and or Carnival plc ordinary shares.
We comties held in rabbi trusts for certain of our nonqualified benefit pleted this $1 billion repurchase program on June 29, 2006. plans.
These assets had carrying and fair values of $440 million Carnival Corporation & plc | page 23
