NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued obligations fall below AA, then Carnival Corporation will be from war or war-like actions, including terrorist risks.
Under required to move those funds being held by those institutions the terms of our war risk insurance coverage, which is typical to other financial institutions whose credit ratings are AA or for war risk policies in the marine industry, underwriters can above.
If Carnival Corporations credit rating, which is A, falls give seven days notice to the insured that the policies will below BBB, it would be required to provide a standby letter be cancelled.
of credit for $80 million, or alternatively provide mortgages in the aggregate amount of $80 million on two of its ships.
NOTE 8Income and Other Taxes In the unlikely event that Carnival Corporation was to termiWe are foreign corporations primarily engaged in the internate the three lease agreements early or default on its obliganational operation of vessels.
Generally, income from the tions, it would, as of November 30, 2006, have to pay a total international operation of vessels is subject to preferential tax of $176 million in stipulated damages.
As of November 30, regimes in the countries where the vessel owning companies 2006, $180 million of standby letters of credit have been issued are incorporated and exempt from income tax in other counby a major financial institution in order to provide further secutries where the vessels call due to the application of income rity for the payment of these contingent stipulated damages.
tax treaties or, in the case of the U. S. Section 883 of the In addition, in 2004, a $170 million back-up letter of credit was Internal Revenue Code.
Income we earn that is not associated issued in support of these standby letters of credit.
Between with the international operation of ships, primarily the trans- 2017 and 2022, we have the right to exercise options that portation, hotel and tour businesses of Holland America Tours would terminate these three lease transactions at no cost to and Princess Tours, is subject to income tax in the countries us.
As a result of these three transactions, we have $37 million where such income is earned.
and $40 million of deferred income recorded on our balance For fiscal 2004, we believe that substantially all of our sheets as of November 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, income, with the exception of our U. S. source income princiwhich is being amortized to nonoperating other income pally from the transportation, hotel and tour businesses of through 2022.
Holland America Tours and Princess Tours, was derived from, Some of the debt agreements that we enter into include or incidental to, the international operation of ships, and is indemnification provisions that obligate us to make payments therefore exempt from U. S. federal income taxes.
For fiscal to the counterparty if certain events occur.
These contingen- 2005, regulations under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue cies generally relate to changes in taxes, changes in laws that Code limiting the types of income considered to be derived increase lender capital costs and other similar costs.
The from the international operation of a ship first became effecindemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms tive.
Section 883 is the primary provision upon which we rely and were entered into in the normal course of business.
There to exempt most of our international ship operation earnings are no stated or notional amounts included in the indemnififrom U. S. income taxes.
Accordingly, the 2006 and 2005 procation clauses and we are not able to estimate the maximum visions for U. S. federal income taxes include taxes on a portion potential amount of future payments, if any, under these of our ship operating income that is in addition to the U. S. indemnification clauses.
We have not been required to make source transportation, hotel and tour income on which U. S. any material payments under such indemnification clauses taxes have historically been provided.
In addition, during the in the past and, under current circumstances, we do not fourth quarter of 2005 and first quarter of 2006 we chartered believe a request for material future indemnification payments three ships to the Military Sealift Command in connection is probable.
with the Hurricane Katrina relief effort.
Income from these War Risk Insurance charters is not considered to be income from the international We maintain war risk insurance, subject to coverage limits, operation of our ships and, accordingly, approximately $11 mildeductibles and exclusions for claims such as those arising lion and $18 million of income taxes were provided on the net from chemical, nuclear and biological attacks, on all of our earnings of these charters in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respecships covering our legal liability to crew, passengers and other tively, at an effective tax rate of approximately 57%.
third parties as well as loss or damage to our vessels arising page 22 | Carnival Corporation & plc
