SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Company information Company summary 79 The Company SVG Capital plc carries on business as an investment trust and it is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Investment trust companies are able to switch investments without liability for capital gains tax.
This, together with the advantages of professional management and spread of risk, makes investment trusts a valuable investment medium.
In order to obtain exemption from capital gains tax the Company conducts itself with a view to continuing as an approved investment trust for the purposes of Section 842 of the United Kingdom Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 as amended.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Information for shareholders The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The stock exchange code for the shares is SVI.
The price of the shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times, The Daily Telegraph and The Times.
Real time share information for the shares is available on the FT Cityline by dialing: 0906 843 1432.
Calls are charged at 60p per minute at all times.
The net asset value is calculated at 30 June and 31 December each year following an extensive valuation procedure.
Due to the nature of the Companys investments, it is not practical to publish the net asset value on a more frequent basis.
A factsheet containing information including the diversication of the portfolio and the Companys largest investments is published quarterly and is available on request from the Company Secretary.
Capital gains tax information For the 2006 2007 tax year, the annual capital gains after adjusting for indexation and taper relief of private individuals in excess of 8,800 2005 2006: 8,500 are assessed for capital gains tax.
Capital gains on shares disposed of by individuals may be eligible for taper relief.
The taper reduces the amount of a chargeable gain according to how long the asset has been held for periods after 5 April 1998.
Where shares were acquired before 6 April 1998, the capital gain will also be reduced by indexation allowance for the period up to April 1998, but not thereafter.
For the benefit of those shareholders who acquired their holdings in exchange for their interests in Schroder Ventures funds, the acquisition cost of the shares for capital gains tax purposes based upon initial dealings on 23 May 1996 was as follows: Each ordinary share of 1.00: 1.915 Schroder investment trust dealing service The Schroder investment trust dealing service provides a convenient and cost effective means of investing in the ordinary shares of the Company.
The service offers investors: a regular investment option from a minimum of 50 per month: a lump sum investment option from a minimum of 1,000: daily dealing: competitive charges: the option to reinvest income.
Other investment trusts that are available through this service are Schroder AsiaPacic Fund plc, Schroder Income Growth Fund plc, Schroder Japan Growth Fund plc, Schroder Split Investment Fund plc, Schroder Split ZDP plc, Schroder UK Growth Fund plc, Schroder UK Mid & Small Cap Fund plc and International Biotechnology Trust plc.
If you would like further information on the Schroder investment trust dealing service, please contact the Secretary of the Company at 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA or call Lloyds TSB on 0870 601 5366.
Individual Savings Account Schroder maxi ISA plan The Schroder ISA offers investors: lump sum investments in the ordinary shares of the Company from a minimum of 1,000 to a maximum of 7,000 in the current tax year: a regular investment option from a minimum of 50 per month: competitive charges: the option to reinvest income: the option to include other trusts.
If you would like further information about the Schroder maxi ISA, please contact the Secretary of the Company at 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA or call Schroder Investor Services on freephone 0800 718 777.
SVG Capital plc Company information Annual Report and Accounts 2006 80 Company summary continued Registrar services Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held on the share register.
Any notications and enquiries relating to registered share holdings, including a change of address or other amendment should be directed to Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland at PO Box 28448, Finance House, Orchard Brae, Edinburgh EH4 1WQ.
The helpline telephone number of Lloyds TSB Registrars is 0870 601 5366.
Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland maintain a web-based enquiry service for shareholders.
Currently the Shareview site address below contains information available on public registers.
Shareholders will be invited to enter their name, shareholder reference account number and post code and will be able to view information on their own holding.
