SVG Capital plc Company information Annual Report and Accounts 2006 86 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Explanatory notes and additional information 1.
A copy of the draft rules of the SVG Capital 2007 Performance Share Plan and the SVG Capital Share Incentive Plan will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company, 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA and at the ofces of New Bridge Street Consultants LLP at 20 Little Britain, London EC1A 7DH during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and English public holidays excepted until the close of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
The proposed amendments to be made pursuant to Resolution 15 are described more fully in the circular to shareholders dated 5 April 2007.
In addition, a blacklined version of the Companys Articles of Association showing the proposed changes will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company, 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and English public holidays excluded until the close of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
An ordinary shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that only those Shareholders registered in the Register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on 8 May 2007 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of Shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the Register of members after 6.00 p. m. on 8 May 2007 shall be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member.
A form of proxy is enclosed for members which should be completed and returned to the Companys registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6ZR not later than 48 hours before the time xed for the meeting.
Completion of the proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person.
As at 5 April 2007, 138,813,795 ordinary shares of 1.00 each were in issue, of which none was held as a treasury share.
Accordingly, the total number of voting rights of the Company as at 5 April 2007 was 138,813,795.
Copies of the terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors and, in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, a statement of all transactions of each Director and of his family interests in the shares of the Company, will be available for inspection by any member of the Company at the registered ofce of the Company, 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA, during normal business hours on any weekday public holidays excepted and by any person attending the Annual General Meeting, during the continuance of the Meeting.
None of the Directors have a contract of service with the Company.
Proles of each of the persons offering themselves for election or re-election as Directors are on pages 30 and 31 of the annual report and accounts of SVG Capital plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 accompanying this document.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP has given and not withdrawn its consent to the inclusion of its name in the form and context in which it appears.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting services provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
