SVG Capital plc Company information Annual Report and Accounts 2006 88 Glossary Early-stage Distributions Seed: Payments to investors after the realisation of investments of the partnership.
Financing provided to allow a business concept to be developed, perhaps involving production of prototypes and Divestments or realisations or exits additional research, prior to bringing a product to market.
Exits of investments, usually via a trade sale or an IPO Initial Start-up: Public Offering on a stock market.
Financing provided to companies for the use in product development and initial marketing.
Companies may be in the Draw downs process of being set up or may have been in business for a short Payments to the partnership by investors in order to finance time, but have not sold their product commercially.
Funds are drawn down from investors on a Other early-stage: deal-by-deal basis.
Financing provided to companies that have completed the Fund of funds product development stage and require further funds to initiate commercial manufacturing and sales.
They will not yet be Private equity funds whose principal activity consists of investing generating profit.
in other private equity funds.
Investors in funds of funds can thereby increase their level of diversication.
Late-stage Gearing, debt equity ratio or leverage the level of a companys Expansion nancing: borrowings as a percentage of shareholder funds.
Capital provided for the growth and expansion of a company Hurdle rate which is breaking even or even trading profitably.
Funds may be used to finance increased production capacity, market or Arrangement that caps the downside risk for investors.
product development and or provide additional working It allows investors to get preferential access to the profits of the capital.
Capital provided for turnaround situations is also partnership.
In the absence of reaching the hurdle return, general included in this category.
partners will not receive a share of the profit carried interest.
A hurdle rate of 10% means that the private equity fund needs Management Buy-Out MBO : to achieve a return of at least 10% before the profits are shared Funds provided to enable current operating management and according to the carried interest arrangement.
investors to acquire an existing business.
Limited partnership Management Buy-In MBI : Most private equity rms structure their funds as limited Funds provided to enable a manager or group of managers partnerships.
Investors represent the limited partners and from outside the company to buy into the company.
private equity managers the general partners.
Follow-on investment Realisation A company which has previously received private equity.
The sale of an investment.
Secondary purchase Secondary market Purchase of existing shares in a company from another private The secondary market enables institutional investors to sell their equity rm, or from other shareholders.
stakes in a private equity partnership before it is wound up.
Public to private Trade sale Purchase of the share capital of a company quoted on a stock Sale of the equity share of an investee company to another exchange with the intention of fide-listing the company and taking company.
Turnaround General Terms A loss making company which can be successfully transformed Carried interest carry into a profit maker.
Carried interest or simply carry represents the share of a Further information on our website private equity funds profit usually 20% that will accrue to the general partners.
com Committed funds or raised funds or committed capital Capital committed by investors.
This will be requested or drawn down by private equity managers on a deal-by-deal basis.
This amount is different from invested funds for two reasons.
Firstly, most partnerships will invest only between 80% and 95% of committed funds.
Second, one has to deduct the annual management fee which is supposed to cover the cost of operation of a fund.
