Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 32 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting The financial statements of the Group and the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the Company are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2003 revised December 2005 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds unless otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Presentation of income statement In order better to reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the income statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the income statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing the Groups compliance with certain requirements set out in Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment has been established, normally the ex-dividend date.
Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of shares received over the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as a gain in the income statement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Foreign currency translation These financial statements are prepared in Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group and the Company operates.
Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
32 Temple Bar Investment Trust Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 33 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Expenses All expenses are accounted for on the accruals basis.
In respect of the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within the income statement, all expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: Transaction costs which are incurred on the purchases or sales of investments designated as fair value through profit or loss are expensed to capital in the income statement.
Expenses are split and presented partly as capital items where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments held can be demonstrated, and accordingly the investment management fee and finance costs have been allocated 40% to revenue and 60% to capital, in order to reflect the directors long-term view of the nature of the expected investment returns of the Company.
Management charge In accordance with the expected long term division of returns, 40% 2005: 40% of the investment management fee for the year is charged to revenue and the other 60% 2005: 60% is charged to capital, net of incremental corporation tax relief and inclusive of any related irrecoverable value added tax.
Investments in funds managed by the Investec Group are wholly excluded from this charge.
Taxation The tax expenses represent the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
The taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Group and Companys liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been or are substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the income statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being entirely offset by expenses in the revenue column of the income statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the revenue return column of the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Investment trusts which have approval under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
Temple Bar Investment Trust 33 Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 34 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups and Companys balance sheet when the Group or Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group or Company shall offset financial assets and financial liabilities if the Group or Company has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and interests and intends to settle on a net basis.
Financial assets and liabilities are derecognised when the Group or Company settles its obligations relating to the instrument.
Other receivables Other receivables do not carry any interest, are short-term in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Investments Investments held at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, being the consideration given and excluding transaction or other dealing costs associated with the investment.
After initial recognition, investments, which are designated as at fair value through profit or loss, are measured at fair value.
Gains or losses on investments designated as at fair value through profit or loss are included in net profit or loss as a capital item, and transaction costs on acquisition or disposal of investments are expensed.
For investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets, fair value is determined by reference to stock exchange quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
All purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade date i. e. the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell an asset.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Interest bearing borrowings Interest bearing borrowings, being the debenture stocks issued by the Company, are initially recognised at cost, being the proceeds received net of issue cost associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, interest bearing borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Other payables Other payables are non interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Equity dividends payable Equity dividends payable are recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
