Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 45 Notice of Meeting NOTICE OF MEETING: NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the eighty first Annual General Meeting of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Monday 26 March 2007 at 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1. to approve the group accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006 together with the reports of the directors and auditors thereon, 2. to approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2006, 3. to declare a final dividend of 19.88p per ordinary share, 4. to re-elect Mr G J Allen as a director, 5. to re-elect Mr F L J Walton as a director, 6. to re-elect Mr J Reeve as a director, 7. to re-appoint the auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTION: 8.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot relevant securities as defined by the said section up to an aggregate maximum nominal amount of 725,000 provided that: i the authority granted shall expire five years from the date upon which this resolution is passed but may be revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting and may be renewed by the Company in general meeting for a further period not exceeding five years: and ii the said authority shall allow and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
That the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of that Act for cash, in accordance with the authority conferred on them by this meeting to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 of that Act, as if Section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to the allotment, provided that the power conferred by this resolution shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on the record date of such allotment but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal problems under the law of or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory : and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value not exceeding 725,000: and shall expire five years from the date upon which this resolution is passed save that the Company may make an offer or agreement before this power has expired, which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Company generally be and is hereby authorised for the purpose of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 8,745,277 being 14.99 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: Temple Bar Investment Trust 45 NEWGATE STREET CHEAPSIDE GRESHAM STREET Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 46 Notice of meeting continued ii the minimum price which may be paid for such shares is 25p per share: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses payable by the Company which may be paid for such shares shall be 5% above the average of the market value of the share quotations taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made: iv the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed or revoked expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2008, or, if earlier, the date falling fifteen months from the date of this resolution: v the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
Dated this 20th day of February, 2007 By order of the Board of Directors M K Slade For Investec Investment Management Limited Secretary 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QP Museum of London LONDON WALL Shown is a plan of the location of Investec St Barts Investment Management Hospital ANGEL ST. Limited, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP where the Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday 26 March 2007 at 11.00 a. m. ST PAULS St Pauls Cathedral NOTES 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend the meeting and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
Instruments of proxy should be sent to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing BN99 6EF so as to arrive no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending and voting at the meeting in person should they wish to do so.
Members who hold ordinary shares in the Company in uncertificated form must have been entered on the Companys register of members by 6.00 p. m. on 24 March 2007 in order to be able to attend and vote at the meeting.
Such members may only vote at the meeting in respect of ordinary shares held at the time.
The Register of Directors Interests kept by the Company in accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 will be open for inspection at the meeting.
None of the directors has a service contract with the Company.
Only holders of ordinary shares or their proxies are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
T S E U G A T N O M. T S NOBLE ST STREET D R A W D FOSTER LA WOOD E G N I K ST MARTINS LE GRAND
