TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and where appropriate, International Accounting Standards IAS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee IASC that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Standards IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given on pages 42 and 43.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Trusts AITC in January 2003, revised December 2005, is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
b Presentation of income statement In order to better reflect the activities of the Investment Trust Company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AITC, supplementary information, which analyses the income statement between items of a revenue and capital nature, has been presented alongside the income statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the Directors believe appropriate in assessing the Companys compliance with certain requirements set out in section 842 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. c Revenue Dividends on equity investments are credited to the revenue column of the Income Statement when they are quoted ex-dividend or as soon as entitlement has been established, if later.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in the revenue column of the Income Statement.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in the capital section of the Income Statement.
Interest receivable on bank deposits is recognised on an accruals basis.
d Expenses Transaction costs arising on the purchase of investments are included in the capital column of the Income Statement.
They are also included in the transfer to Capital Reserve Realised, in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
All other operating expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis and are charged through the revenue column of the Income Statement.
Expenses relating to the disposal of an investment, are deducted from the sales proceeds.
e Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that 44 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Companys liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Income Statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Income Statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the Balance Sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed as each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period where the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Investment Trusts which have approval under Section 842 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
Withholding tax may be suffered on dividend income received, depending on the tax regime of the countries where the investment is held.
To the extent that any withholding tax is deemed recoverable it has been recognised as a debtor in the financial statements.
f Non-current asset investments The Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of income and capital growth.
This portfolio of financial assets is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented investment strategy, and information about the portfolio is provided internally on that basis to the Companys Directors and other key management personnel.
Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date where a purchase or sale is under a contract whose terms require delivery within the timeframe established by the market concerned.
Accordingly, upon initial recognition all of the Companys non-current asset investments are designated on initial recognition as being at fair value through profit or loss.
They are included initially at fair value, which is taken to be their cost excluding expenses incidental to the acquisition which are written off in the capital column of the Income Statement at the time of acquisition.
Subsequently, the investments are valued at fair value, which is measured as follows: i Securities which are listed on a stock exchange or traded on any other organised market are valued at the last bid price on such exchange or market which is normally the principal market for each security, and these securities dealt in on an over-the-counter market are valued in a manner as near as possible to that for quoted securities.
45 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued ii Unquoted investments where there is not an active market are valued using an appropriate valuation technique so as to establish what the transaction price would have been at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on non-current asset investments are included in the capital column of the Income Statement.
g Foreign currencies Transactions involving foreign currencies are translated to Sterling the Companys functional currency at the spot exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency gains and losses are included in the Income Statement and allocated as capital or income dependent on the nature of the transaction giving rise to the gain or loss.
Foreign currency gains and losses allocated as capital are included in the transfer to Capital reserve realised or Capital reserve unrealised as appropriate in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
h Cash Cash comprises cash at bank and in hand.
i Reserves Share Premium Account represents the amount paid on the share capital in excess of the shares nominal value.
Capital Redemption Reserve represents the nominal value of shares repurchased.
Capital reserves the Companys Articles of Association preclude it from making any distribution of capital profits.
Income recognised in the Income Statement is allocated to applicable reserves in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Revenue Reserve represents net revenue income earned during the period that has not been distributed to shareholders.
