12581 Text 8 6 06 2:43 pm Page 57 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and Second a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised Annual General Meeting of TR Property Investment Trust to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the Companys plc will be held at the Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, ordinary shares in issue at the date of the Annual London SW1Y 5HS on Tuesday 18 July 2006 at 12 noon General Meeting equivalent to 51,543,115 ordinary for the following purposes: shares of 25p each at 23 May 2006, the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : Ordinary Business b the maximum price exclusive of expenses at 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the Audited which a Share may be purchased shall not exceed Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006.
of the average of the middle market quotations for the Shares as taken from the 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the year ended 31 March 2006. five business days immediately preceding the date 3 To declare a final dividend of 1.90p per ordinary share.
of purchase: 4 To re-elect Mr P L Salsbury as a director.
c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be 25p, being the 5 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the nominal value per Share: and Company.
d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the 6 To authorise the directors to determine the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the remuneration of the auditors.
Company in 2007 or, if earlier, 18 months from the passing of this resolution, save that the Company Special Business may before such expiry enter into a contract to To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following purchase Shares under which such purchases will or resolution as a special resolution: may be completed or executed wholly or partly after 7 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and the expiration of this authority and may make a unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section purchase of Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make By order of the Board market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company Shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to time D J Trickett ACIS determine provided that: Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Secretary 23 May 2006 TR Property Investment Trust 57 12581 Text 8 6 06 1:48 pm Page 58 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 1 Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated 4 This notice is sent for information only to holders Securities Regulations 2001, only those shareholders of debentures issued by Trust Union Finance registered in the register of members of the Company 1991 PLC.
at 7.00pm on 16 July 2006 shall be entitled to attend 5 The Register of Directors Interests kept by the and or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect Company in accordance with Section 325 of the of the number of shares registered in their name at Companies Act 1985 will be open for inspection at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register the AGM.
of securities after that time on 16 July 2006 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to 6 By attending the Meeting, members and their proxies attend or vote at the Meeting.
In the case of joint and representatives are understood by the Company to holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders have confirmed their agreement to receive any a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be communications including communications relating to accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other the Companys securities made at the Meeting.
joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in 7 The Registered Office of the Company is 4 Broadgate, the register in respect of the joint holding.
2 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the 8 Shareholders attention is drawn to the fact that a Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to dress code exists at the Royal Automobile Club.
attend and, on a poll, to vote on his her behalf.
A proxy Gentlemen are required to wear tailored business need not be a member of the Company.
The number suits, or tailored jackets and trousers, together of votes cast by proxy for each resolution will be with collared shirts and ties at all times and in all communicated to shareholders at or following the areas of the club.
AGM and will be available on request.
Ladies are expected to dress with commensurate 3 A form of proxy is enclosed and to be valid must be formality according to the occasion and within the lodged with the Registrar of the Company not less spirit of these rules.
Shareholders are requested than 48 hours before the time fixed for the Meeting.
to note that this dress code will be enforced and Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude use of the facilities will be refused in the event of a shareholder from attending and voting in person.
Royal Automobile Club 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS 58 TR Property Investment Trust 12581 Text 8 6 06 1:48 pm Page 59 Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1, 2 and 3: Accounts, Remuneration Report below net asset value.
Your Board considers that it will be & Dividend most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to be These are the resolutions which deal with the presentation able to make such purchases as and when it considers the of the audited accounts, the approval of the directors timing to be favourable and therefore does not propose to remuneration report and the declaration of the final set a timetable for making any such purchases.
The vote to approve the remuneration report is The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury advisory only and will not require the Company to alter any Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into arrangements detailed in the report should the resolution force on 1 December 2003.
The Regulations enable not be passed.
companies in the United Kingdom to hold in treasury any Resolution 4: Re-election of Director of their own shares they have purchased with a view Resolution 4 deals with the re-election of Mr P L Salsbury to possible resale at a future date, rather than cancelling as director.
Under the Articles of Association, Mr Salsbury is them.
If the Company does re-purchase any of its shares, required to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting: the directors do not currently intend to hold any of the he has confirmed he will offer himself for re-election.
The shares so repurchased will continue to be cancelled.
Resolutions 5 and 6: Auditors These deal with the re-appointment of the auditors, Ernst & The rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the price which Young LLP, and the authorisation for the directors to may be paid by the Company to 105% of the average determine their remuneration.
middle-market quotation for an ordinary share on the 5 business days immediately preceding the date of the Resolution 7: Authority to make Market Purchases of the relevant purchase.
The minimum price to be paid will Companys own Shares be 25p per ordinary share being the nominal value.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 19 July 2005, a Also these rules limit a listed company to purchases of special resolution was proposed and passed, giving the shares representing up to 15% of its issued ordinary directors authority, until the conclusion of the Annual share capital through the market pursuant to a general General Meeting in 2006, to make market purchases of the authority such as this.
For this reason, the Company is Companys own issued ordinary shares up to a maximum of limiting its authority to make such purchases to 51,685,520 representing approximately 14.99% of the 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the issued share capital as at 24 May 2005, the date of the date of the Annual General Meeting: this is equivalent to Notice of the AGM for cancellation.
This authority will 51,543,115 ordinary shares of 25p each nominal value expire at this years Annual General Meeting.
The authority will last until the Annual General Your Board is proposing that they should be given renewed Meeting of the Company to be held in 2007 or, if earlier, authority to purchase ordinary shares in the market.
Your 18 months from the passing of the resolution.
Board believes that to make such purchases in the market at appropriate times and prices is a suitable method of A special resolution is one that requires a majority of at enhancing shareholder value.
The Company would, within least 75% of those present and voting to be passed.
guidelines set from time to time by the Board, make either a single purchase or a series of purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with the aim of maximising the benefits to shareholders.
Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share, this will enhance the net asset value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore intended that purchases would only be made at prices TR Property Investment Trust 59
