12581 Text 8 6 06 1:48 pm Page 39 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB IFRIC.
These are the first financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Previously the financial statements were prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP including the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies.
UK GAAP differs in certain respects from IFRS.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
Reconciliations of the Group and Company Balance Sheets, Group Statement of Total Return to the Group Income Statement and Group Cash Flow at date of conversion 1 April 2005 are shown in notes 21 and 22. a Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries to 31 March 2006.
Companies, other than subsidiaries, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence, are treated as associates.
The Group accounts include the appropriate share of the results and reserves of these companies based on the latest available accounts.
Other companies, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights but where the directors consider that the Group does not exert significant influence, are not treated as associates and are accounted for as investments.
b Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the period on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no exdividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the period end are treated as revenue for the period.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
The fixed returns on debt securities and non-equity shares are recognised on a time apportionment basis and, if material, so as to reflect the effective yield on each such security.
Interest receivable from cash and short term deposits is accrued to the end of the period.
c Expenses All expenses and finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
An analysis of retained earnings broken down into revenue distributable and capital non-distributable items is given in note 16.
In arriving at this breakdown, expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment: expenses are presented as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
In this respect, the investment management fees and finance costs are allocated 50% to revenue and 50% to capital to reflect the Boards expectations of long term investment returns.
One third of the management fees is deemed to relate to the administration of the Trust and charged to revenue.
The remainder is split on the same basis as finance costs and 50% charged to capital.
The overall result is that two thirds of management fees are charged to revenue and one third to capital.
All performance fees are charged to capital.
the finance cost in respect of capital instruments other than equity shares is calculated so as to give a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance.
