Proxy Form Tullett Prebon plc the Company For use by Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held at 2.30 pm on 7th June 2007.
To be held at: Cable House, 54-62 New Broad Street, London EC2M 1ST.
If you wish to vote at the Annual General Meeting but are unable to attend in person you may appoint a proxy or proxies to act on your behalf either by completing this form or, in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
I We NAME IN FULL BLOCK CAPITALS of being a member of Company, hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or failing him insert full name and address of proxy in BLOCK CAPITALS as my our proxy to vote for me us on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on Thursday 7 June 2007 and at any adjournment thereof.
I We direct my our proxy to vote on the resolutions as set out in the notice convening the Meeting as indicated with an X in the appropriate space below.
For Against Vote withheld ORDINARY BUSINESS Ordinary Resolutions Resolution 1 To receive the report and accounts Resolution 2 To approve the report on directors remuneration Resolution 3 To elect Paul Mainwaring as director Resolution 4 To elect Rupert Robson as director Resolution 5 To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration Resolution 6 To declare a final dividend of 6p per share SPECIAL BUSINESS Ordinary Resolution Resolution 7 To authorise the directors to allot relevant securities SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS Resolution 8 To disapply pre-emption rights Resolution 9 To authorise the Company to buy back shares Date Signature see notes 5 & 6 Notes 1 If no name is inserted, this proxy will be deemed to have been given in favour of the Chairman of the Meeting.
Where no indication is given, the proxy will vote or abstain at his discretion.
Shareholders may appoint one or more persons to attend and, on a poll, vote in their stead.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
In the case of an individual, this form must be signed by the individual or on his behalf by his attorney.
In the case of a corporation the form must be completed under the corporations official seal or by an officer or agent duly authorised in writing.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent you from attending in person and voting at the Meeting should you subsequently decide to do so.
This form, to be valid, must be returned by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys registrars at the Proxy Processing Centre, Telford Road, Bicester OX26 4LD or by hand during normal business hours to Capita Registrars at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time of the Annual General Meeting.
Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company 48 hours prior to the stated commencement of the Annual General Meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that time Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Changes to entries on the register after 2.30pm on 5th June 2007 shall be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Tullett Prebon plc 67 Annual Report 2006 First fold Second fold BUSINESS REPLY Licence No.
RRHB-RSXJ-GKCY Proxy Processing Centre Telford Road BICESTER OX26 4LD Third fold and tuck inside Group Overview Tullett Prebon is the worlds second largest interdealer broker, and acts as an intermediary in the wholesale financial markets, facilitating the trading activities of its clients, in particular commercial and investment banks, hedge funds and buy-side institutions.
The business covers five major product groups: Fixed Income Securities and their derivatives, Interest Rate Derivatives, Treasury Products, Equities and Energy.
The business brokes the products on either a name give up basis where all counterparties to a transaction settle directly with each other or a matched principal basis where Tullett Prebon is the counterparty to each leg of a transaction.
Traditionally liquidity pools are managed by voice brokers supported by proprietary screens which display historical data, analytics and real time prices.
In early 2006 the business launched its new electronic trading platform, SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION TM TradeBlade, which gives clients access to electronic Financial calendar execution coupled with straight-through processing for 13 March Preliminary Announcement electronic transactions.
23 May Ex-dividend Date 25 May Dividend Record Date In addition, Tullett Prebon has an established data sales 7 June Annual General Meeting 14 June Dividend Payment Date business which collects, cleanses, collates and distributes real-time information to data providers.
Company address: Cable House, 54-62 New Broad Street, Contents London EC2M 1ST 01 Highlights United Kingdom 02 Chairmans Statement 03 Operating and Financial Review Telephone number: 020 7200 7000 10 Board of Directors Company number: 5807599 11 Report of the Directors Website address: www.
com 14 Corporate Governance Report 18 Report on Directors Remuneration Registrars address: 22 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Capita Registrars, 23 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc 34 Beckenham Road, 24 Consolidated Income Statement Beckenham, 25 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense Kent BR3 4TU 26 Consolidated Balance Sheet 27 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 28 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 60 Independent Auditors Report on the UK GAAP Company Financial Statements 61 Company Balance Sheet 62 Notes to the Financial Statements 65 Notice of Annual General Meeting 67 Proxy Form IBC Shareholder Information This annual report is printed on Take 2 Offset, which contains 100% fide-inked pulp from post-consumer recycled waste.
This product is biodegradable, 100% recyclable and elemental chlorine free.
Vegetable based inks were used during production.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production www.
com support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited to ISO 14001 which specifies a process for continuous environmental improvement.
Tullett Prebon plc Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr Registered in England no: 5807599 44 0 20 7610 6140.
Registered office: Cable House, 54-62 New Broad Street, London, EC2M 1ST www.
co. uk Annual Report 2006 Annual Report 2006 Tullett Prebon plc Cable House, 54-62 New Broad Street, London EC2M 1ST United Kingdom www.
