Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the preparing the annual report and the directors are required to prepare financial statements.
The directors financial statements for each financial are required to prepare financial year which give a true and fair view statements for the Group in accordance of the state of affairs of the Company with International Financial Reporting and of the profit or loss of the Company Standards IFRS and have chosen to for that period.
In preparing these prepare financial statements for the financial statements, the directors are Company in accordance with United required to: Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 make judgements and estimates that requires that financial statements are reasonable and prudent: and present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial state whether applicable accounting performance and cash flows.
This standards have been followed, requires the faithful representation of subject to any material departures the effects of transactions, other events disclosed and explained in the and conditions in accordance with the financial statements.
definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses The directors are responsible for set out in the International Accounting keeping proper accounting records Standard Boards Framework for the which disclose with reasonable Preparation and Presentation of accuracy at any time the financial Financial Statements.
In virtually all position of the Company, for circumstances, a fair presentation will safeguarding the assets, for taking be achieved by compliance with all reasonable steps for the prevention applicable International Financial and detection of fraud and other Reporting Standards.
Directors are irregularities and for the preparation also required to: of a Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report which comply select and apply accounting with the requirements of the policies properly: Companies Act 1985. present information, including The directors are responsible for the accounting policies, in a manner that maintenance and integrity of the provides relevant, reliable, comparable Company website.
Legislation in the and understandable information: and United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of provide additional disclosures when financial statements differs from compliance with the specific legislation in other jurisdictions.
requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
22 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2006
