Notice of Annual General Meeting Tullett Prebon plc Registered in England no 5807599 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Tullett Prebon plc the Company will be held at Cable House, 54-62 New Broad Street, London EC2M 1ST on 7 June 2007 at 2.30pm.
The business of the meeting will be: Ordinary Business all proposed as Ordinary Resolutions To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: 1.
To receive the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006 together with the reports of the directors and the auditors thereon.
To approve the report on directors remuneration.
To elect as a director Paul Mainwaring Finance Director 4.
To elect as a director Rupert Robson Independent Non-Executive 5.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of the meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid and to authorise the Board to fix their remuneration.
That a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006 be declared payable at the rate of 6.0p per share on 14 June 2007 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 25 May 2007.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolution 7 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and resolutions 8 and 9 as special resolutions: Ordinary Resolution 7.
That: a in accordance with article 6 of the Companys articles of association, the directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up to a maximum nominal amount of 17,694,844: b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, on 6 September 2008: and c all previous unutilised authorities under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 shall cease to have effect.
That: a in accordance with article 7 of the Companys articles of association, the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash: b the power under paragraph a above other than in connection with article 7 a i of the Companys articles of association shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 2,654,226: c this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 6 September 2008: and d all previous authorities under section 95 of the Companies Act shall cease to have effect.
That, in accordance with article 11 of the Companys articles of association, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases as defined by section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors of the Company determine, provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 21,233,813: b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p exclusive of expenses payable by the Company in connection with the purchase : Tullett Prebon plc 65 Annual Report 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Tullett Prebon plc Registered in England no 5807599 Special Resolutions continued c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall not be more than the higher of 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buyback and Stabilisation Regulations 2003 exclusive of expenses payable by the Company in connection with the purchase : d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, on 6 September 2008 unless renewed before that time: and e the Company may enter into contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority, which contracts will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make purchases of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contracts.
By order of the Board Alistair Peel Registered office: Company Secretary Cable House 13 March 2007 54 - 62 New Broad Street London EC2M 1ST Notes: 1.
Every member who is entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote in his her stead.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Appointment of proxies does not preclude members from attending and voting at the meeting should they wish to do so.
A form of proxy is enclosed: alternatively if you hold shares in uncertificated form ie in CREST you may vote using the CREST system please see the notes below.
To be valid, an instrument appointing a proxy in hard copy form together with a power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof must be deposited at the office of the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Alternatively if you submit your proxy electronically through CREST, to be valid, the appropriate CREST message regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars ID RA10 by no later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
The time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which Capita Registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 changes to entries in the register of members after 6.00pm on Tuesday, 5 June 2007 or on the date two days before any adjourned meeting as the case may be shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting as the case may be.
Accordingly, only a member registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on Tuesday, 5 June 2007 or on the date two days before the meeting or any adjourned meeting as the case may be shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting or any adjourned meeting as the case may be in respect of the number of shares registered in his name at that time.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using procedures described in the CREST manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The reasons for the special business are explained in the Directors Report.
Brief biographical notes about the directors proposed to be elected or re-elected are shown on page 10 of the annual report.
The Corporate Governance Report set out in the annual report provides additional information recommended by the Revised Combined Code.
66 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2006
