qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 31 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report present information, including accounting policies, in a and the financial statements.
The directors are required to manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with understandable information: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have also provide additional disclosures when compliance with the elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in specic requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the directors to understand the impact of particular transactions, other prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the events and conditions on the entitys financial position and Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and directors report and directors remuneration report which expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also governing the preparation and dissemination of financial required to: statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
properly select and apply accounting policies: Note to those who access this document by electronic means The annual report for the year ended 31 December 2006 has been approved by the Board of Witan Investment Trust plc and circulated to the Companys shareholders in hard copy format.
It is also made available in electronic format for the convenience of readers.
However, the Board cannot accept responsibility for guaranteeing the integrity of the document in electronic format.
Printed copies are available from the Companys Registered Ofce in London.
Readers should note that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
