qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 52 Marketing Review Witans marketing programme is a cumulative process designed to enhance the James Budden worth of its shareholders investments.
The activity stimulates and sustains demand for Witan shares.
This in turn provides a level of liquidity which boosts the share price and allows shareholders to purchase and sell shares at a price accurately reecting the performance and rating of the Trust.
The presence of Witan... liquidity in Investment Trust shares is increasingly important in an environment where demand can drop, discounts slip and price spreads widen.
However this worth tends to be difficult to quantify in pounds, shillings and pence.
It is often only reected by comparing a trusts rating against that of its peers who do not promote themselves.
Both may enjoy similar performance but their discounts will be different with the marketed Trust sitting closer to par.
During 2006 Witan put into place a structure which will allow it to see the benets of its marketing programme in terms of profitability.
This structure relates to its provision of savings plans PEPs, ISAs, Shareplan and Jump schemes to the retail investor.
Witans subsidiary Witan Investment Services Limited became authorised by the FSA in April 2006 to provide these plans to the public.
Consequently, investors who held Witan through Henderson Global Investors plans were offered the opportunity to move their plans to Witans savings platform, Witan Wealthbuilder, at no cost and under identical terms and wisdom conditions.
Upon the conclusion of this migration project Witan Investment Making New Year resolutions is often a pointless exercise.
Services will be managing a significant savings business.
In addition, each and How much better to invest with a company thats happy to see you gain a pound or two.
every plan marketed and sold to new investors will be profitable to Witan and its shareholders.
In the past this was not the case as the Trust subsidised investment 0800 082 81 80 www.
Oldie 02 07 C through savings plans when they were housed by Henderson Global Investors.
It Please remember that past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The value of your shares and the income from them can rise and fall, so you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited.
Witan Investment Services Limited of 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority to provide investment products and services.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
is important to bear in mind that this turnaround has been achieved not by charging investors more but by negotiating margins with suppliers.
In the future the profitability of the Witan Wealthbuilder platform will be a tangible measure of Witans marketing success.
The promotion of Saving Schemes in order to stimulate demand for Witan shares is one area of marketing activity.
In addition, throughout 2006 Witan Witan looked to push its message of solid risk adjusted wealth creation ahead of global stockmarkets to intermediaries and discretionary wealth managers.
Here Witans Compromise marketing communications sought to convince this audience of the ongoing makes a worth of its multi-manager investment approach and that its success as a proposition should be measured by the sum of its parts rather than the good performance of its individual constituents.
After all, it is total return that umbrella, matters to shareholders, private and professional.
2007 James Russell Lowell Witans marketing objectives continue to be to promote awareness of the Trust and to stimulate demand for its shares.
To this end, Witan employs a mix wisdom of activity, including advertising, direct mail, public and investor relations, Which would you choose: a fund with outstanding managers but high charges, or e-commerce and sponsorship.
This approach is tailored to three key target one with mediocre managers and low charges?
If your answer is neither, youre the kind of uncompromising person who might make an excellent Witan investor.
markets, namely the private investor, the investment IFA and the discretionary Please dont glaze over at the mention of Total Expense Ratios Q2 2001 Q2 2002 Q2 2003 Q2 2004 Q2 2005 TERs for short.
Theyre the standard measure of the total charges wealth manager.
Witans strategy may be summarised as follows: - Q2 2002 - Q2 2003 - Q2 2004 - Q2 2005 - Q2 2006 taken out of your investment by a funds managers.
Very, very few funds have lower TERs than Witan.
Figure shown is the share price total return.
But do you pay a price when it comes to the quality of the Advertising: Eliciting response across a range of marketing consumer finance managers?
Unlike other large, international However, please remember that past performance is not a guide investment funds which depend on a single manager, since to future performance.
The value of an investment and the 2003 Witan has offered the expertise of a hand-picked array of income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of the currency top managers from leading firms in Europe, North America and and market fluctuations and you may not get back the amount titles, national personal finance supplements and trade publications.
Just look at the table and, in particular, at the So dont compromise your investment portfolio, call us for your Witan strength of Witans recovery since the great crash of 2000-2002.
Share Plan pack or get in touch with your financial adviser today.
Direct Mail: Conversion of response into investment rather than speculative 0800 082 81 80 www.
Communicating of product offers to investors.
Please quote reference Money Ob 10 06 PI when calling.
Public and Investor Relations: Ongoing journalist contact programme and the provision of Trust information across the shareholder base.
qxd 9 3 07 11:02 pm Page 53 E-Commerce: Product distribution and information made The Transfer PEP allows investors to transfer all or any available on www.
com number of their existing PEP holdings to Witan Wealthbuilder.
The investments retain their tax free status Sponsorship: Building brand awareness for Witan and Jump.
Witan is principal sponsor of Chemmy Alcott Britains number one female skier, in addition to enjoying sponsorship Jump, The Savings Plan For Children buys shares in Witan arrangements with British Eventing Young Rider team, the RHS Investment Trust plc.
Jump gives parents, grandparents and and Tommys the Baby Charity.
other adults the chance to save effectively for children over the long-term.
Minimum lump-sum investment is set at During 2007, the Board will use key performance indicators to 100 and regular contributions can be made from as little as measure the success of Witans marketing strategy.
Whilst the 25 a month or quarter.
com application of the marketing mix will be creative and innovative, for more information and application forms.
emphasis will be placed on ensuring cost effective responses across all activities.
The marketing budget is xed annually and Further information on all products is available by calling 0800 expenditure is kept under close review.
It is anticipated that the 082 8180 or online via www.
If you would prefer to budget for 2007 will show a modest increase on that of 2006. write to request further information the address is: Candida writes Witan Wealthbuilder PO Box 4605, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6QY Investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax benets may I didnt ask to be named after change if the law changes and their value will depend upon a fungal infection.
I didnt ask to be born blonde.
Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services.
Witan I didnt ask to be born at all.
Investment Services Limited of 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA I didnt ask to be dragged to France every summer.
is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority to I didnt ask for Dad to show provide investment products and services.
up at every swimming gala.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to And I definitely didnt ask him to start some savings fund improve customer service.
Impossible to do anything right for your children?
A Jump savings fund could go some way to smoothing relations.
If only to finance their escape from the family nest.
A monthly saving can build up over the years to an impressive lump sum.
So call us for an information pack, or visit our website.
And try bribing your way to some gratitude.
Please remember, past performance is not a guide to future performance, and the value of your shares and the income from it can rise and fall, so you may not get back the full amount you invested.
The savings fund for children Witan 0800 082 81 80 www.
com BB Money 12 06 J Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited.
Witan Investment Services Limited of 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA is authorised and regulated by When the seagulls follow the the Financial Services Authority to provide investment products and services.
trawler, its because they think How to Invest sardines There are a variety of ways to invest in Witan Investment Trust will be thrown into the sea plc.
Naturally Witans shares can be traded through any UK Eric Cantona.
However, Witan is also available for investment through the Witan Wealthbuilder savings platform managed by wisdom Witan Investment Services.
Witan Wealthbuilder offers a variety Steady long-term performance.
And a choice of remuneration for IFAs.
of different savings wrappers which carry the benets of income It certainly sounds like it.
In fact, it sounds like were throwing last year figures that compare more than favourably against cod, haddock and halibut overboard, let alone measly sardines.
reinvestment, regular saving and tax efficient investment.
These But, the truth is, everything is completely above board.
We also have a TER Total Expense Ratio of just 0.47%.
Which As the performance figures here show, we have delivered on means the total amount we deduct from the fund each year saving schemes may be purchased online, by telephone or our promise, and achieved a Total Return of 52.36% since we in charges and expenses compares more than favourably with went multi-manager in September 2004, and 12.12% over the a total TER of 1.63% for the average OEIC within the IMA Global through the post.
Online dealing is xed at 15 per trade while 01.10.04 31.12.06 01.01.06 31.12.06 Witan Investment Trust 52.36% 12.12% telephone and postal business is charged at 1% per deal subject FTSE All-World Index 38.74% 7.18% Source: Datastream.
Figures shown are share price total return.
Period from Witan becoming multi-managed.
And, contrary to popular opinion, not only do Available through: we offer commission to IFAs, we also let you choose the remuneration option which best suits your business model.
Witan Wealthbuilder The Share Plan is a straightforward savings scheme with All in all, we hope youll agree that our multi-manager strategy delivers both for intermediaries, and their clients.
The net result minimum lump sum investment from 500 and or regular being that everybodys happy.
To find out more about us, and the hand-picked team of specialists that make up our multi-manager team, visit www.
com or call 0800 082 81 80. saving from 50 per month or quarter.
com The ISA enables investors to save tax efficiently up to a limit Please quote reference New Model 19 02 07 IF when calling.
Minimum lump sum investment is Please remember, past performance is not a guide to future performance, and the value of shares and the income from them can rise and fall, so investors may not get back the amount originally invested.
2,000 with regular savings from 50 per month.
