Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
General information Certain re-measurements Centrica plc is a Company domiciled and incorporated in the As part of its energy procurement activities the Group enters into United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address a range of commodity contracts designed to achieve security of of the registered office is given on page 33.
The nature of the energy supply.
These contracts comprise both purchases and Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 sales and cover a wide range of volumes, prices and timescales.
and in the Directors Report - Business Review on pages 6 to 26.
The majority of the underlying supply comes from high volume The consolidated Financial Statements of Centrica plc are long-term contracts which are complemented by shorter-term presented in sterling.
Foreign operations are included in arrangements.
These short-term contracts are entered into for accordance with the policies set out in note 2. the purpose of balancing energy supplies and customer demand At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, and to optimise the price paid by the Group.
Short-term demand the following Standards and Interpretations which have not can vary significantly as a result of factors such as weather, power been applied in these Financial Statements were in issue, but generation profiles and short-term movements in market prices.
not yet effective: Many of the energy procurement contracts are held for the X IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and the related purpose of receipt or delivery of commodities in accordance amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures effective for annual with the Groups purchase, sale or usage requirements and are periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007 : this Standard therefore out of scope of IAS 39.
However, a number of contracts will require additional disclosures on capital and financial are considered to be derivative financial instruments and are instruments: and required to be fair valued under IAS 39, primarily because their X IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective for annual periods terms include the ability to trade elements of the contracted beginning on or after 1 January 2009 : this Standard replaces volumes on a net-settled basis.
IAS 14 Segment Reporting and requires segmental information The Group has shown the fair value adjustments arising on reported to be based on that which management uses internally these contracts separately in the certain re-measurements column.
for evaluating the performance of operating segments and This is because the intention of management is, subject to shortrequires increased disclosure relating to reportable segments.
term demand balancing, to use these energy supplies to meet customer demand.
Accordingly management believe the ultimate The Directors anticipate that the following Standards and net charge to cost of sales will be consistent with the price Interpretations, which were also in issue but not effective at the of energy agreed in these contracts and that the fair value date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, will have no adjustments will reverse as the energy is supplied over the life material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group: of the contract.
This makes the fair value re-measurements very X IFRIC 7, Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, different in nature from costs arising from the physical delivery Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies effective for annual of energy in the period.
periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006 : At the balance sheet date the fair value represents the X IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 effective for annual periods beginning difference between the prices agreed in the respective contracts on or after 1 May 2006 : and the actual or anticipated market price of acquiring the same amount of energy on the open market.
The movement in the fair X IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment effective value taken to certain re-measurements in the Income Statement for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006 : represents the unwind of the contracted volume delivered or X IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions consumed during the period, combined with the change in fair effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007 : value of future contracted energy as a result of movements in and forward energy prices during the year.
These adjustments represent the significant majority of X IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements effective for the items included in certain re-measurements.
In addition to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008. these however the Group has identified a number of comparable contractual arrangements where the difference between the price 2.
Summary of significant which the Group expects to pay or receive under a contract and the market price is required to be fair valued by IAS 39. accounting policies These additional items relate to cross-border transportation or Basis of preparation transmission capacity, storage capacity and contracts relating to The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in the sale of energy bi-products, on which economic value has been accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS created which is not wholly recognised under the requirements of as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with IAS 39.
For these arrangements the related fair value adjustments Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
are also included under certain re-measurements.
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on These arrangements are managed separately from proprietary the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments energy trading activities where trades are entered into speculatively and available-for-sale investments, and the assets and liabilities of for the purpose of making profits in their own right.
These the Group pension schemes that have been measured at fair value.
proprietary trades are included in the results before certain The carrying values of recognised assets and liabilities that are re-measurements.
hedged items in fair value hedges, and are otherwise carried at Certain re-measurements included within interest comprise cost, are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable re-measurement of the publicly traded units of The Consumers to the risks that are being hedged.
The principal accounting Waterheater Income Fund.
policies adopted are set out below.
The Groups Income Statement and segmental note separately identifies the effects of re-measurement of certain financial instruments, and items which are exceptional, in order to provide readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the Groups underlying performance, as described below.
48 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Proprietary energy trading: Revenue comprises net gains and losses both realised settled and unrealised fair value changes Exceptional items from trading in physical and financial energy contracts.
As permitted by IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, certain Storage services: Storage capacity revenues are recognised items are presented separately as exceptional, where they are material evenly over the contract period, whilst commodity revenues for to the result for the period and are of a non-recurring nature.
Items the injection and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point which may be considered material and non-recurring in nature include of gas flowing into or out of the storage facilities.
disposals of businesses, business restructuring, the renegotiation Home services and fixed fee service contracts: Where the of significant contracts and asset write-downs.
We intend to follow Group has an ongoing obligation to provide services, revenues are such a presentation on a consistent basis in future periods.
Items apportioned on a time basis and amounts billed in advance are are considered material if their omission or mis-statement could, treated as deferred income and excluded from current revenue.
For in the opinion of the Directors, individually or collectively, affect the one-off services, such as installations, revenue is recognised at the true and fair presentation of the Financial Statements.
Revenue from fixed fee service contracts Basis of consolidation is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial reflecting the benefits receivable by the customer, which span the Statements of the Company and entities controlled by the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year, available throughout the contract term.
and incorporate the results of its share of jointly controlled entities Gas production: Revenue associated with exploration and and associates using the equity method of accounting.
production sales of natural gas, crude oil and condensates is Control is achieved where the Company has the power to recognised when title passes to the customer.
Revenue from the govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity production of natural gas, oil and condensates in which the Group so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
has an interest with other producers is recognised based on the The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the Groups working interest and the terms of the relevant production year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or up sharing arrangements the entitlement method.
Differences to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary between production sold and the Groups share of production adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, are not significant.
associates and jointly controlled entities to bring the accounting Interest income: Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by policies used into line with those used by the Group.
reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated are eliminated on consolidation.
future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying value.
Interests in joint ventures A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture which involves Cost of sales the establishment of an entity to engage in economic activity, Energy supply includes the cost of gas and electricity produced which the Group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
Under the and purchased during the period taking into account the industry equity method, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity usage by at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net supplier, and related transportation, distribution, royalty costs and assets of the jointly controlled entity, less any impairment in value in bought in materials and services.
The Income Statement reflects the Groups Home services and fixed fee service contracts cost of sales share of the results of operations after tax of the jointly controlled includes direct labour and related overheads on installation work, entity the equity method.
repairs and service contracts in the period.
Certain of the Groups exploration and production activity is Employee share schemes conducted through joint ventures where the venturers have a direct The Group has a number of employee share schemes, detailed in interest in and jointly control the assets of the venture.
The results, the Directors Report Corporate Responsibility on page 26, the assets, liabilities and cash flows of these jointly controlled assets Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 36 and in note 25, under are included in the consolidated Financial Statements in proportion which it makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain to the Groups interest.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured Interests in associates at fair value at the date of grant excluding the effect of non An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest market-based vesting conditions.
The fair value determined at and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence.
the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis together with Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried at a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period, based cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net on the Groups estimate of the number of awards that will vest assets of the associate, less any impairment in value in individual and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The Income Statement reflects the Groups share Fair value is measured using methods appropriate to each of the of the results of operations after tax of the associate.
different schemes as follows: Revenue LTIS: awards up to A Black-Scholes valuation augmented Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the 2005 by a Monte Carlo simulation to predict economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can the total shareholder return performance be reliably measured.
Revenue includes amounts receivable for LTIS: 2006 EPS Market value on the date of grant goods and services provided in the normal course of business, awards net of trade discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
LTIS: 2006 TSR A Monte Carlo simulation to predict the total Energy supply: Revenue is recognised on the basis of energy awards shareholder return performance supplied during the period.
Revenue for energy supply activities Sharesave Black-Scholes includes an assessment of energy supplied to customers between ESOS Black-Scholes using an adjusted option the date of the last meter reading and the year end unread.
Unread life assumption to reflect the possibility gas and electricity is estimated using historical consumption of early exercise patterns, taking into account the industry reconciliation process Share Award Market value on the date of grant for total gas and total electricity usage by supplier, and is included Scheme in accrued energy income within debtors.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 49 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of Foreign currencies the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in sterling, Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for which is the functional currency of the Company and the Groups impairment, annually, or more frequently if events or changes in presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
own functional currency and items included in the Financial Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement Statements of each entity are measured using that functional and is not subsequently reversed.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
to each of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cashMonetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies generating units that expect to benefit from the synergies of the are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been at the balance sheet date.
All differences are included in the allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently Income Statement for the period with the exception of exchange when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit or groups of cashagainst a net investment in a foreign entity.
These are taken directly generating units is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount are recognised in the Income Statement.
Non-monetary items that of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets are measured in terms of historical cost in a currency other than of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each the functional currency of the entity concerned are translated asset in the unit.
using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, For the purpose of presenting consolidated Financial Statements, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign subsidiary of the profit or loss on disposal.
undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates are translated Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to into sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject The results of foreign subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to entities and associates are translated into sterling at average rates reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated.
of exchange for the relevant period.
Exchange differences arising from the re-translation of the opening net assets and the results Other intangible assets are transferred to the Groups foreign currency translation reserve, a Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial separate component of equity, and are reported in the Statement of recognition at cost.
For purchased application software, for Total Recognised Income and Expense.
In the event of the disposal example investments in customer relationship management and of an undertaking with assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign billing systems, cost includes contractors charges, materials, currency, the cumulative translation difference arising in the foreign directly attributable labour and directly attributable overheads.
currency translation reserve is charged or credited to the Income Capitalisation begins when expenditure for the asset is being Statement on disposal.
incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare the asset Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings, foreign for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used to hedge all the activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for use are foreign currency net investments in foreign subsidiary undertakings, complete.
Amortisation commences at the point of commercial jointly controlled entities and associates are taken directly to deployment over the assets estimated useful economic life.
The reserves and are reported in the Statement of Recognised Income cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is their and Expense.
All other exchange movements are recognised in the fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, Income Statement for the period.
intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The Business combinations and goodwill useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase or indefinite.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the cash paid the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever and the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
other assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the intangible asset are reviewed at least at each financial year-end.
acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under are accounted for on a prospective basis by changing the IFRS 3, Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and treated at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal as changes in accounting estimates.
groups that are classified as held for resale in accordance with Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal, or when no IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued future economic benefits are expected from their use or disposal.
Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for less costs to sell.
impairment annually either individually or at the cash-generating Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the unit level.
Such intangibles are not amortised.
The useful life of an excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is reviewed annually fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, to determine whether indefinite life assessment continues to be jointly controlled entity or associate at the date of acquisition.
If not, the change in the useful life assessment from Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
If, after re-assessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
50 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Exploration, evaluation and production assets Exploration and evaluation costs are capitalised using the The amortisation period for the principal categories of intangible successful efforts method.
Acquisition costs related to exploration assets are as follows: and evaluation activities are capitalised.
Exploration wells are initially capitalised and certain expenditure such as geological and Application software up to 10 years geophysical exploration costs is expensed.
If the prospects are Licences up to 20 years subsequently determined to be unsuccessful on completion of Consents up to 25 years evaluation, the associated costs are expensed in the period in Contractual customer relationships up to 10 years which that determination is made.
Identifiable acquired brand Dyno Indefinite All field development costs are capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Such costs relate to the acquisition and installation of Emissions trading scheme and renewable obligations certificates production facilities and include development drilling costs, projectGranted CO2 emissions allowances received in a period are initially related engineering and other technical services costs.
Property, recognised at nominal value nil value.
Purchased CO emissions 2 plant and equipment, including rights and concessions related to allowances are initially recognised at cost purchase price within production activities, are depreciated from the commencement intangible assets.
A liability is recognised when the level of of production in the fields concerned, using the unit of production emissions exceed the level of allowances granted.
The liability method, based on all of the proven and probable reserves of those is measured at the cost of purchased allowances up to the level fields.
Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively.
of purchased allowances held, and then at the market price of The net carrying value of fields in production and development allowances ruling at the balance sheet date, with movements in is compared on a field-by-field basis with the likely discounted the liability recognised in operating profit.
Forward contracts for future net revenues to be derived from the remaining commercial the purchase or sale of CO emissions allowances are measured 2 reserves.
An impairment loss is recognised where it is considered at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair that recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully recovered from the value recognised in the Income Statement.
The intangible asset net present value of future net revenues.
Exploration and production is surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting the assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
As a result no amortisation is recorded during the period.
Decommissioning costs Purchased renewable obligation certificates are initially Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost recognised at cost within intangible assets.
A liability for the of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the renewables obligation is recognised based on the level of electricity producing lives of fields, and storage facilities and power stations supplied to customers, and is calculated in accordance with at the end of the useful life of the facilities, based on price levels percentages set by the UK government and the renewable and technology at the balance sheet date.
obligation certificate buyout price for that period.
The intangible Changes in these estimates and changes to the discount rates asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting are dealt with prospectively.
When this provision gives access to the consumption of economic benefit.
As a result no amortisation future economic benefits, a decommissioning asset is recognised is recorded during the period.
and included within property, plant and equipment.
For gas production facilities and off-shore storage facilities the Property, plant and equipment decommissioning asset is amortised using the unit of production Property, plant and equipment is included in the Balance Sheet method, based on proven and probable reserves.
For power at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions stations the decommissioning asset is amortised on a straight-line for impairment.
basis over the useful life of the facility.
The unwinding of the The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or discount on the provision is included in the Income Statement construction cost and any costs directly attributable to bringing within interest expense.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any Leases other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant lease, is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires and equipment, except exploration and production assets, an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is are depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the write off the cost, less estimated residual values, of individual arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Leases are classified assets over their estimated useful lives.
The depreciation as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer periods for the principal categories of assets are as follows: substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant Plant 5 to 20 years and equipment at their fair value, or if lower, at the present value of Power stations up to 30 years the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans Storage up to 28 years and other borrowings, with the amount payable within 12 months Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their included in bank overdrafts and loans within short-term liabilities.
expected useful economic lives on the same basis as for owned Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges assets, or where shorter, the lease term.
and reduction of the finance lease obligation so as to achieve a The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 51 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit schemes At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying is determined separately for each scheme using the projected unit amounts of its intangible assets and property, plant and equipment credit actuarial valuation method.
Actuarial gains and losses are to determine whether there is any indication that those assets recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recognised outside the Income Statement and presented in the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
the extent of any impairment loss.
Where the asset does not The cost of providing retirement pensions and other benefits is generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the charged to the Income Statement over the periods benefiting from Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating employees service.
Past service cost is recognised immediately unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The difference between the expected Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to return on scheme assets and the change in present value of sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time is cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax recognised in the Income Statement within interest expense.
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Balance value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
of the schemes as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit and as reduced by the fair value of the schemes assets.
is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its Provisions recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation expense immediately.
legal or constructive as a result of a past event, that can be An impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change reliably measured, and it is probable that the Group will be required in the estimate used to determine the assets recoverable amount to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors since the last impairment loss was recognised.
Where an best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of the effect is material.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount provision due to the passage of time is recognised in the Income does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been Statement included within interest expense.
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset Taxation cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment Current tax, including UK corporation tax, UK petroleum revenue loss is recognised as income immediately.
After such a reversal tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid the depreciation amortisation charge, where relevant, is adjusted or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted, in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, or substantially enacted, by the balance sheet date.
less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences useful life.
identified at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill if Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale amortisation of goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes or the are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects assets classified as held for sale.
neither accounting profit nor taxable profit and loss.
Temporary Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held differences are differences between the carrying amount of the for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is Deferred tax liabilities may be offset against deferred tax assets regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis present condition.
Management must be committed to the of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
foreseeable future, against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Inventories Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Inventories, excluding inventories of gas and oil, are valued on subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except a first-in, first-out basis, at the lower of cost or estimated net where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can realisable value, after allowance for redundant and slow moving be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will items.
Inventories of gas and oil are valued on a weighted average not reverse in the foreseeable future.
basis, at the lower of cost or estimated net realisable value, after Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are allowance for redundant and slow moving items.
expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised Take-or-pay contracts or liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been Where payments are made to external suppliers under take-or-pay enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
obligations for gas not taken, they are treated as prepayments Measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax and included within other receivables, as they generate future consequences expected to fall from the manner in which the asset economic benefits.
or liability is recovered or settled.
52 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued recognised in the Income Statement for debt instruments classified as available for sale are subsequently reversed if an increase in the Financial instruments fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group occurring after the recognition of the impairment loss.
Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are fide-recognised g Derivative financial instruments when the Group no longer has the rights to cash flows, the risks The Group routinely enters into sale and purchase transactions for and rewards of ownership or control of the asset.
Financial liabilities physical gas, power and oil.
The majority of these transactions take are fide-recognised when the obligation under the liability is the form of contracts that were entered into and continue to be discharged, cancelled or expires.
held for the purpose of receipt or delivery of the physical position in accordance with the Groups expected sale, purchase or usage a Trade receivables requirements, and are not within the scope of IAS 39.
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice Certain physical gas, power and oil purchase and sales amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
Provision contracts are within the scope of IAS 39 because they net settle is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be or contain written options.
Such contracts are accounted for as able to collect the debts.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
derivatives under IAS 39 and are recognised in the Balance Sheet b Share capital at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a directly to the Income Statement for the year.
deduction from the proceeds received.
Own equity instruments The Group uses a range of derivatives for both trading and to that are reacquired treasury shares are deducted from equity.
hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, foreign No gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement on exchange and energy price risks, arising in the normal course of the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own business.
The use of derivative financial instruments is governed by equity instruments.
the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Further detail on the Groups risk management policies is included within c Cash and cash equivalents the Directors Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current 21 to 23 and in note 33 to the Financial Statements.
balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily The accounting treatment for derivatives is dependent on convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to whether they are entered into for trading or hedging purposes.
insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging of three months or less.
purposes when it alters the risk profile of an underlying exposure For the purpose of the consolidated Cash Flow Statement, of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies and cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents is in accordance with established guidelines, which require that the as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
hedging relationship is documented at its inception, ensure that the d Interest-bearing loans and borrowings derivative is highly effective in achieving its objective, and require All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised that its effectiveness can be reliably measured.
The Group also at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
holds derivatives which are not designated as hedges and After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings derivatives that are held for trading.
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective All derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date on which interest method, except when they are the hedged item in an the derivative is entered into and are re-measured to fair value at effective fair value hedge relationship, where the carrying value is each reporting date.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
hedged risks and the fair value movements are recognised in the Derivative assets and derivative liabilities are offset and presented Income Statement.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into on a net basis only when both a legal right of set-off exists and the account any issue costs, and any discount or premium.
intention to net settle the derivative contracts is present.
The Group enters into certain energy derivative contracts e Units issued by The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund covering periods for which observable market data does not exist.
Units issued by The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund which The fair value of such derivatives is estimated by reference in part contain redemption rights providing unit holders with the right to to published price quotations from active markets, to the extent redeem units back to the Fund, for cash or another financial asset, that such observable market data exists, and in part by using are treated as a financial liability and recorded at the present value valuation techniques, whose inputs include data, which is not of the redemption amount.
Gains and losses related to changes based from observable markets.
Where the fair value at initial in the carrying value of the financial liability are recognised in the recognition for such contracts differs from the transaction price, Income Statement as interest income or interest expense.
a fair value gain or fair value loss will arise.
This is referred to as a f Other financial assets day-one gain or day-one loss.
Such gains and losses are deferred Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial and amortised to the Income Statement based on volumes assets that are designated as available for sale, and are initially purchased or delivered over the contractual period until such recognised at fair value, and are included within other financial time observable market data becomes available.
At such time assets within the Balance Sheet.
Available for sale financial assets observable market data becomes available, any remaining are subsequently recognised at fair value with gains and losses deferred day one gains or losses are recognised within the arising from changes in fair value recognised directly in equity and Income Statement.
Recognition of the gain or loss that results presented in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, from changes in fair value depends on the purpose for issuing or until the asset is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at holding the derivative.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value equity is included in the Income Statement for the period.
are taken directly to the Income Statement and are included within Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement for equity gross profit or interest income and interest expense.
Gains and investments classified as available for sale are not subsequently losses arising on derivatives entered into for speculative energy reversed through the Income Statement.
Impairment losses trading purposes are presented on a net basis within revenue.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 53 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued 3.
Critical accounting judgements and Embedded derivatives: Derivatives embedded in other financial key sources of estimation uncertainty instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies as not carried at fair value, with gains or loss reported in the Income described in note 2, management has made the following Statement.
The closely related nature of embedded derivatives is judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts re-assessed when there is a change in the terms of the contract recognised in the Financial Statements apart from those involving which significantly modifies the future cash flows under the estimations which are dealt with below.
Where a contract contains one or more embedded Finance lease Third-party power station tolling arrangement derivatives and providing that the embedded derivative significantly The Group has entered into a long-term tolling arrangement with the modifies the cash flows under the contract, the option to fair Spalding power station and has determined that, based on the value the entire contract may be taken and the contract will be substance of the contractual terms, the arrangement is a finance lease.
recognised at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the Income Statement.
Subsidiary The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund The Group holds a nil interest 2005: 19.9% in The Consumers h Hedge accounting Waterheater Income Fund the Fund, through its wholly owned For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified subsidiary, Direct Energy Marketing Limited.
The Funds units are either as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
The Group has determined investments in foreign operations.
that the Fund is a subsidiary, due to the substance of the Fair value hedges: A derivative is classified as a fair value hedge arrangements and has included the Fund on a consolidated basis when it hedges the exposure to changes in the fair value of a within the Groups Financial Statements.
Units in the Fund held by recognised asset or liability.
Any gain or loss from re-measuring third parties contain redemption rights providing the holder of such the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately units with the rights to put the units back to the Fund for cash or in the Income Statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item another financial asset.
The Group has determined that units attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying issued by the Fund, which contain such redemption rights are amount of the hedged item and recognised in the Income financial liabilities.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting Emissions trading scheme if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or The Group has been subject to the European Emissions Trading exercised, the hedge no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or Scheme EU ETS since 1 January 2005.
IFRIC 3, Emission Rights the Group revokes the designation.
Any adjustment to the carrying was withdrawn by the IASB in June 2005, and has not yet been amount of a hedged financial instrument for which the effective replaced by definitive guidance.
The Group has adopted an interest method is used is amortised to the Income Statement.
accounting policy, which recognises CO emissions liabilities when 2 Amortisation may begin as soon as an adjustment exists and shall the level of emissions exceeds the level of allowances granted by begin no later than when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted the Government in the period.
The liability is measured at the cost for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
of purchased allowances up to the level of purchased allowances Cash flow hedges: A derivative is classified as a cash flow held, and then at market price of allowances ruling at the balance hedge when it hedges exposure to variability in cash flows that is sheet date.
Movements in the liability are reflected within operating attributable to a particular risk either associated with a recognised profit.
Forward contracts for sales and purchases of allowances are asset, liability or highly probable forecast transaction.
The portion measured at fair value.
of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is effective, is recognised directly in equity while any ineffectiveness is recognised Petroleum revenue tax PRT in the Income Statement.
The gains or losses that are recognised The definitions of an income tax in IAS 12, Income Taxes, have led directly in equity are transferred to the Income Statement in the management to judge that PRT should be treated consistently with same period in which the highly probable forecast transaction other taxes.
The charge for the year, is presented within taxation affects income, for example when the future sale of physical gas or on profit from continuing operations in the Income Statement.
Where the hedged item is the cost Deferred amounts are included within deferred tax assets and of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset Key sources of estimation uncertainty or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a replacement or rollover, no longer qualifies for hedge accounting significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying or the Group revokes the designation.
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging discussed below.
instrument recognised in equity remains in equity until the highly probable forecast transaction occurs.
If the transaction is no longer Impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity The Group determines whether goodwill and indefinite lived is recognised in the Income Statement.
intangible assets are impaired at least on an annual basis.
This Net investment hedges: Hedges of net investments in foreign requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any units to which goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are allocated.
gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate equity, any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge is of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit recognised in the Income Statement.
On disposal of the foreign and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the operation, the cumulative value of any gains or losses recognised present value of those cash flows.
Further detail on the assumptions directly in equity is transferred to the Income Statement.
used in determining value in use calculations is provided in note 14.
54 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources Management estimate the level of recovery of imbalance which will of estimation uncertainty continued be achieved either through subsequent customer billing or through the developing industry settlement process.
Revenue recognition unread gas and electricity meters Revenue for energy supply activities includes an assessment of Determination of fair values energy derivatives energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter Derivative contracts are carried in the Balance Sheet at fair value, reading and the year end unread.
Unread gas and electricity is with changes in fair value recorded in the Income Statement.
Fair estimated applying industry standards and using historical values of energy derivatives are estimated by reference in part to consumption patterns taking into account the industry published price quotations in active markets and in part by using reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity usage valuation techniques.
More detail on the assumptions used in by supplier.
Management apply judgement to the measurement determining fair valuations is provided in note 33 ii.
of the estimated energy supplied to customers and to the valuation Pensions and other post-retirement benefits of that energy consumption.
The judgements applied, and the The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes.
assumptions underpinning these judgements are considered to The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit schemes is be appropriate.
However, a change in these assumptions would determined separately for each scheme under the projected unit impact upon the amount of revenue recognised.
Actuarial gains and losses are Industry Reconciliation Process cost of sales recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
The key The industry reconciliation process is required as differences arise assumptions used for the actuarial valuation are based on the between the estimated quantity of gas and electricity the Group Groups best estimate of the variables that will determine the deems to have supplied and billed customers, and the estimated ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits, on which quantity the industry system operator deems the individual suppliers, further detail is provided in note 30. including the Group, to have supplied to customers.
This difference Decommissioning costs in deemed supply is referred to as imbalance.
The reconciliation The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the process can result in either a higher or lower value of industry producing lives of fields is reviewed periodically and is based on deemed supply than has been estimated as being supplied to proven and probable reserves, price levels and technology at the customers by the Group, but in practice tends to result in a higher balance sheet date.
Provision is made for the estimated cost of value of deemed supply.
The Group then reviews the difference decommissioning at the balance sheet date.
The payment dates to ascertain whether there is evidence that its estimate of amounts of total expected future decommissioning costs are uncertain and supplied to customers is inaccurate or whether the difference arises from other causes.
The Groups share of the resulting imbalance dependent on the lives of the facilities, but are currently anticipated to be between 2007 and 2042. is included within commodity costs charged to cost of sales.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 55 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4.
Segmental analysis Primary reporting format business segments The Groups business segments are distinguished on the basis of the internal management reporting system, and reflect the day-to-day management of the business.
The products and services included within each segment are described in the Directors Report Business Review, on pages 6 to 26.
2006 2005 restated Less interLess intersegment segment Gross segment revenue Group Gross segment revenue Group revenue i, ii, iii revenue revenue i, ii, iii revenue m m m m m m a Revenue Continuing operations: British Gas Residential 7,112 7,112 6,032 6,032 British Gas Business 2,303 2,303 1,510 1,510 British Gas Services 1,104 1,104 1,024 1,024 Industrial sales and wholesaling 1,035 883 871 85 786 152 Gas production 1,291 323 1,365 1,182 183 968 iv Accord energy trading 39 39 42 42 Centrica Energy 2,365 1,120 1,245 2,278 1,267 1,011 Centrica Storage 358 294 253 58 195 64 North American Energy and Related Services 4,097 4,097 3,552 3,552 European Energy 295 295 119 119 Other operations 5 5 17,634 16,450 14,773 1,325 13,448 1,184 Discontinued operations: Onetel 344 2 342 344 2 342 i Inter-segment revenue is derived from recharges of energy procurement costs between Centrica Energy and other Group segments.
Gas purchase costs are appropriately allocated to the revenue generating streams using a method which best reflects the consumption of gas within the Group.
Electricity costs are recharged using a method which reflects the actual cost within the Group.
ii Inter-segment revenue arising within Centrica Storage represents the provision of storage facilities to other Group companies, on an arms length basis.
iii Accord energy trading carries out certain sales transactions on behalf of the Groups Industrial sales and wholesaling segment.
The Group considers that it is not reflective of the trading relationship between the segments to present these transactions as intersegment revenue within the Industrial sales and wholesaling segment.
The comparative information has been restated accordingly.
The effect of the restatement is to reduce gross segment revenue and inter-segment revenue for Industrial sales and wholesaling by 589 million for the year ended 31 December 2005.
There is no effect on Group revenue or segment operating profit.
iv The revenue presented for Accord energy trading comprises net gains and losses both realised and unrealised fair value changes from trading in physical and financial energy contracts.
Included within its net gains and losses is 18 million arising on fees charged to other Group segments 2005: 8 million.
It is not representative of the transactions to present this amount within inter-segment revenue because the result is stated net within revenue.
Group revenue is derived from the following activities: 2006 2005 m m Sales of goods 14,840 11,996 Rendering of services 1,586 1,452 Other income 24 Group revenue 16,450 13,448 56 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 4.
Segmental analysis continued Operating profit loss Operating profit loss before exceptional items and Exceptional items Certain re-measurements after exceptional items and certain re-measurements note 6 note 6 certain re-measurements year ended 31 December year ended 31 December year ended 31 December year ended 31 December b Operating profit 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations: British Gas Residential 95 90 14 584 660 214 724 843 British Gas Business 87 77 1 167 243 408 321 British Gas Services 102 111 66 15 36 96 Industrial sales and wholesaling 210 156 42 440 424 230 538 Gas production 864 1,020 32 28 896 992 Accord energy trading 32 39 6 17 38 56 Centrica Energy 686 903 42 478 435 1,164 510 Centrica Storage 228 154 2 1 206 155 24 North American Energy and Related Services 223 185 264 138 41 323 European Energy 7 9 9 15 8 i Other operations 14 2 23 21 27 13 1,442 1,513 11 455 180 1,957 331 931 ii Discontinued operations: The AA 39 39 Onetel 12 5 7 11 11 12 34 46 11 11 i Operating profit before exceptional items and certain re-measurements includes a 20 million gain arising on revisions to the assumptions made in calculating the Groups defined benefit pension liability.
The Schemes rules were amended from 1 April 2006 to allow employees to commute a larger amount of their pension to a cash lump sum on retirement, in line with changes in the Finance Act.
Future revisions to the assumption will be reflected within the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
ii The results of discontinued operations before losses profits on disposal of the business included costs of 11 million 2005: 330 million and a tax credit of 3 million 2005: 1 million charge.
Share of results of joint ventures and associates Depreciation of property, net of interest and taxation plant and equipment Amortisation of intangibles year ended 31 December year ended 31 December year ended 31 December c Included within operating profit 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m m m Continuing operations: British Gas Residential 2 17 16 35 48 British Gas Business 1 5 14 1 British Gas Services 13 16 4 Industrial sales and wholesaling 29 95 81 1 Gas production 252 193 Accord energy trading Centrica Energy 29 347 274 1 Centrica Storage 23 19 1 North American Energy and Related Services 87 76 10 13 European Energy 6 1 10 9 12 Other operations 17 3 37 506 406 73 76 12 Discontinued operations: Onetel 6 1 6 1 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 57 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4.
Segmental analysis continued Capital expenditure on property, plant and Capital expenditure on other Segment assets i Segment liabilities ii equipment note 15 intangible assets note 13 31 December 31 December year ended 31 December year ended 31 December 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m m m m m d Assets and liabilities Continuing operations: British Gas Residential 1,531 1,948 621 14 33 58 665 British Gas Business 807 981 141 4 7 54 16 196 British Gas Services 249 466 192 191 18 10 6 19 Industrial sales and wholesaling 3,876 5,459 2,338 3,797 92 77 61 62 Gas production 1,170 1,052 2,156 1,556 263 391 1 Accord energy trading 1,239 1,533 1,288 1,831 Centrica Energy 6,285 8,044 7,184 355 468 61 63 5,782 Centrica Storage 479 451 93 14 17 116 North American Energy and Related Services 2,546 3,046 1,041 941 107 109 3 6 European Energy 104 67 59 7 9 2 80 Corporate and unallocated assets liabilities 4,024 2,543 5,874 4 18 18 10 6,311 Total continuing operations 16,025 17,546 15,104 509 643 184 174 14,383 Discontinued operations: Onetel 7 Total discontinued operations 7 Less inter-segment receivables payables 4,256 4,946 4,256 4,946 11,079 13,290 10,848 509 650 184 174 9,437 i Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant, equipment, goodwill, other intangible assets, inventories, derivatives, receivables and operating cash.
Unallocated assets comprise deferred tax attached to unallocable assets and liabilities, investments and derivatives designated as hedges of borrowings.
The aggregate investment in each joint venture for each segment is analysed in note 16. ii Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities.
Unallocated liabilities comprise items such as taxation, corporate borrowings, the Group pension deficit which is not allocable between segments on a reasonable basis and deferred tax attached to unallocable assets and liabilities.
Corporate overheads are allocated to reportable segments for Group reporting purposes based on an assessment of the key drivers of each allocable cost.
Secondary reporting format geographical segments The Group operates in three main geographical areas: Capital expenditure on property, plant and Capital expenditure on other Total assets equipment note 15 intangible assets note 13 Revenue based on location of assets based on location of assets based on location of assets year ended 31 December 31 December year ended 31 December year ended 31 December 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations: UK 11,934 9,643 8,382 9,866 388 534 172 166 North America 4,097 3,552 2,579 3,182 107 109 3 6 Rest of World 419 253 118 242 14 9 2 16,450 13,448 11,079 13,290 509 643 184 174 Discontinued operations: UK 342 7 58 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 5.
Costs of continuing operations 2006 2005 m m Analysis of costs by nature Revenue 16,450 13,448 Re-measurement of energy contracts note 6 916 456 Transportation, distribution and metering costs 2,658 2,556 Commodity cost 8,547 5,996 Depreciation and amortisation included within cost of sales 407 256 Staff and staff-related costs included within cost of sales 366 329 Other costs relating to energy consumption and provision of services 671 656 Total cost of sales 9,793 12,649 Exceptional items note 6 11 331 Depreciation and amortisation included within operating costs 226 172 Staff and staff-related costs included within operating costs 906 1,076 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 17 13 Profit on disposal of other intangible assets and other investments 3 4 Write-down of inventory 3 1 i Impairment of trade receivables 83 181 Foreign exchange gains 3 3 Other operating costs 982 955 Total operating costs 2,693 2,191 Share of losses profits in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation note 4 12 37 Operating profit from continuing operations 180 1,957 i Impairment of trade receivables relates to bad debt write-offs and excludes any recovery or related administrative costs.
2006 2005 Auditors remuneration m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts and Group consolidation 2.2 1.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The auditing of other accounts within the Group pursuant to legislation including that of countries and territories outside Britain 1.2 1.1 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.5 1.6 Other services relating to taxation 0.1 0.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.6 All other services 0.7 1.0 4.7 5.9 Fees in respect of UK GAAP pension scheme Audit 0.1 0.1 It is the Groups policy to seek competitive tenders for all major consultancy and advisory projects.
Appointments are made taking into account other factors including expertise and experience.
In addition, the Board has approved a detailed policy defining the types of work for which the auditors can tender and the approvals required.
In the past, the auditors have been engaged on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the Group are particularly important, including tax advice and due diligence reporting on acquisitions.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 59 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2006 2005 m m a Exceptional items Exceptional items recognised in continuing operations i Systems write-down 196 ii, iii Business restructuring costs 100 87 iv Rough storage incident 48 Profit on disposal of British Gas Connections Limited 47 v Contract renegotiation 42 Total exceptional items recognised in continuing operations 331 11 Exceptional items recognised in discontinued operations Loss on disposal of Onetel 5 Adjustment to profit on disposal of the AA 39 Total exceptional items recognised in discontinued operations 34 i The Group has written down certain of its recent major systems developments following a review of their existing and required future functionality.
The cost comprises write-downs in British Gas Residential 178 million and British Gas Services 18 million.
A tax credit of 59 million was recognised in respect of these costs.
ii Business restructuring costs comprise 67 million from staff reductions at the corporate centre 3 million, British Gas Residential 16 million, and British Gas Services 48 million, and 20 million relating to the closure of the head office of British Gas Residential.
A tax credit of 20 million was recognised in respect of these costs.
iii Business restructuring costs in 2005 comprised 100 million resulting from staff reductions at the corporate centre 23 million, British Gas Residential 43 million, British Gas Services 15 million, British Gas Business 1 million and 18 million relating to changes to the property portfolio.
A tax credit of 23 million was recognised in respect of these costs.
iv Centrica Storage operations at Rough suffered a major interruption caused by a fire in February 2006.
Our investment in new emergency shutdown systems and prompt management action mitigated the damage to ensure no loss of life.
Following a full assessment of the work needed to restore operations, the costs of the incident have resulted in an exceptional charge before taxation of 48 million of which 24 million is recognised within Other operations.
A tax credit of 14 million has been recognised in respect of the charge.
v The profit in 2005 arose on the renegotiation of certain long-term take-or-pay contracts during the period.
2006 2005 b Certain re-measurements note 2 m m iv Certain re-measurement recognised in relation to energy contracts i Net losses gains arising on delivery of contracts 287 140 ii Net losses gains arising on market price movements and new contracts 623 299 Net losses gains arising on proprietary trades in relation to cross-border transportation or iii capacity contracts 6 17 Net re-measurement of energy contracts included within gross profit 456 916 v Net losses arising on re-measurement of joint ventures energy contracts 15 1 Net re-measurement included within Group operating profit 455 931 Gains arising on re-measurement of the publicly traded units of iv, v The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund note 8 37 Total certain re-measurements 455 894 i As energy is delivered or consumed from previously contracted positions, the related fair value recognised in the opening balance sheet representing the difference between forward energy prices at the opening balance sheet date, and the contract price of energy to be delivered is charged or credited to the Income Statement.
ii Represents fair value losses gains arising from the change in fair value of future contracted sales and purchase contracts as a result of changes in forward energy prices between reporting dates or date of inception and the reporting date, where later.
iii Comprises movements in fair value arising on proprietary trades in relation to cross-border transportation or storage capacity, on which economic value has been created which is not wholly accounted for under the provisions of IAS 39. iv A tax credit of 284 million has been recognised in respect of re-measurement of energy contracts.
A tax charge of 14 million has been recognised in respect of re-measurement of the units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund.
v Certain re-measurements included within Group operating profit also include the Groups share of the certain re-measurements relating to the energy procurement activities of joint ventures.
Certain re-measurements included within interest comprise re-measurement of the publicly traded units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund.
All other re-measurement is included within results before exceptional items and certain re-measurement.
60 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 7.
Directors and employees 2006 2005 m m a Employee costs Wages and salaries 1,038 1,031 Social security costs 90 83 Other pension and retirement benefits costs note 30 141 136 Executive Share Option Scheme 3 3 Long Term Incentive Scheme 9 7 Sharesave Scheme 8 10 Share Incentive Plan 2 2 Share Award Scheme 1 1,292 1,272 Details of Directors remuneration, share options, Long Term Incentive Scheme interests and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 41 form part of these Financial Statements.
Details of employee share schemes are given on pages 26, 34, 35, and 36 and in note 25.
Details of the remuneration of key management personnel are given in note 32.
Wages and salaries exclude redundancy costs of 50 million 2005: 68 million which have been classified as restructuring costs included within exceptional items.
Other pension and retirement benefits includes a 17 million 2005: 13 million loss on curtailments which has been classified as an exceptional restructuring cost in the Income Statement.
2006 2005 Number Number b Average number of employees during the year British Gas Residential 10,044 11,321 British Gas Business 1,617 1,438 British Gas Services 14,355 13,626 Centrica Energy 968 884 Centrica Storage 193 182 North American Energy and Related Services 5,032 5,261 European Energy 195 201 Other operations 1,529 1,580 Onetel to disposal on 30 December 2005 917 33,933 35,410 UK 28,704 29,948 North America 5,032 5,261 Rest of World 197 201 33,933 35,410 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 61 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 8.
Net interest 2006 2005 Interest Interest Interest Interest expense income Total expense income Total m m m m m m Cost of servicing net debt excluding non-recourse debt Interest income 38 38 60 60 i Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 87 87 175 175 Interest expense on finance leases including tolling agreements 97 97 47 47 ii Fair value losses gains on hedges 3 2 5 5 1 Fair value losses gains on other derivatives 25 17 11 25 14 8 231 66 165 200 90 110 Interest arising on non-recourse debt Interest expense on non-recourse debt 11 11 13 13 Distributions to unit holders of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 20 20 27 27 Fair value gains arising on Units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 37 37 40 37 3 31 31 Other interest Notional interest arising on discounted items 26 11 14 14 15 iii Interest on supplier early payment arrangements 11 11 12 12 Interest on customer finance arrangements 2 2 15 37 22 16 12 4 Interest expense income 140 247 102 145 286 146 i Includes 66 million 2005: 19 million interest payable on borrowings related to the Centrica Gas Production LP as described in note 33 c xiv.
ii Includes fair value losses gains on both derivatives designated into fair value hedging relationships and bonds designated as the hedged item.
iii Interest on supplier early payment arrangements arose on the prepayment of gas transportation charges.
Taxation 2006 2005 m m a Analysis of tax charge for the year The tax charge comprises: Current tax UK corporation tax 199 368 UK petroleum revenue tax 234 400 i, ii, iii, iv Tax on exceptional items and certain re-measurements 23 20 Foreign tax 51 22 Adjustments in respect of prior years 62 25 Total current tax 439 705 Deferred tax Current year 79 10 Prior year 10 22 v Change in UK tax rate 9 i, ii, iii, iv Tax on exceptional items and certain re-measurements 161 343 UK petroleum revenue tax 27 7 Foreign deferred tax 17 7 Total deferred tax 139 259 Total tax on profit from continuing operations 180 844 62 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 9.
Taxation continued i The tax credit arising on the systems write-down in 2006 was 59 million note 6 a i. ii The tax credit arising on the business restructuring costs in 2006 was 20 million note 6 a ii.
iii The tax credit arising on costs related to the Rough Storage incident was 14 million note 6 a iv.
iv The tax credit arising on re-measurement of energy contracts was 284 million.
The tax charge relating to gains arising on re-measurement of the publicly traded units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund was 14 million note 6 b iv.
v The effect of the increase of 10% to the UK supplementary charge from 1 January 2006 on the relevant temporary differences at 31 December 2005 was 9 million.
vi Tax on items taken directly to equity is disclosed in note 26. vii In 2005, tax credits relating to exceptional items amounted to 11 million, and the tax charge relating to certain re-measurements amounted to 149 million.
Corporation tax is charged at 30% 2005: 30% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
The Group earns its profits primarily in the UK, therefore the tax rate used for tax on profit on ordinary activities is the standard rate for UK corporation tax, currently 30%.
A supplementary charge of 20% is also currently applicable on the Groups UK upstream profits.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
b Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The differences between the total tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows: 2006 2005 m m Results for the year before Exceptional Results for the year exceptional items items and before exceptional Exceptional and certain certain Results items and certain items and certain Results re-measurements re-measurements for the year re-measurements re-measurements for the year m m m m m m Profit from continuing operations before tax 1,259 1,225 34 1,368 4441,812 Less share of profits losses in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation 15 12 38 1 37 3 Group profit from continuing operations before tax 1,256 1,210 46 1,330 4451,775 Tax on profit from continuing operations at standard UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2005: 30% 377 363 14 399 134 533 Effects of: Income expenses not chargeable deductible for tax purposes 20 6 14 3 6 9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 15 15 84 84 Movement in unrecognised deferred tax assets 71 71 63 63 UK petroleum revenue tax rates 159 159 261 261 Overseas tax rates 6 12 6 3 12 15 Supplementary charge applicable to upstream profits 107 6 113 61 61 Exceptional profit on disposal of British Gas Connections Limited 14 14 Group tax charge on profit from continuing operations 543 180 706 138 844 363 10.
Dividends 2006 2005 m m Prior year final dividend of 7.4 pence 2005: 6.1 pence per ordinary share paid on 14 June 2006 269 220 Interim dividend of 3.15 pence 2005: 3.1 pence per ordinary share paid on 15 November 2006 115 120 384 340 The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.0 pence per share totalling 293 million for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 May 2007.
These Financial Statements do not reflect this dividend payable, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending 31 December 2007.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 63 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11.
Earnings per ordinary share Basic earnings per ordinary share has been calculated by dividing the loss attributable to equity holders of the Company for the year of 155 million 2005: earnings of 1,012 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 3,643 million 2005: 3,688 million.
The number of shares for 2005 excluded 3 million ordinary shares being the weighted average number of the Companys own shares held in the employee share trust which were treated as treasury shares.
There was a share repurchase programme in operation during the year as described in note 24.
The Directors believe that the presentation of an adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, being the basic earnings per ordinary share adjusted for certain re-measurements and exceptional items assists with understanding the underlying performance of the Group.
The reconciliation of basic to adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share is as follows: 2006 2005 Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary m share m share a Continuing and discontinued operations Loss earnings basic 1,012 27.4 155 4.3 Net exceptional items after tax note 6 238 6.6 34 0.9 Certain re-measurement gains and losses after tax note 6 624 17.1 306 8.3 Earnings adjusted basic 707 19.4 672 18.2 Loss earnings diluted 1,012 27.0 155 4.3 2006 2005 Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary m share m share b Continuing operations Loss earnings basic 967 26.2 147 4.1 Net exceptional items after tax note 6 238 6.6 Certain re-measurement gains and losses after tax note 6 624 17.1 306 8.3 Earnings adjusted basic 715 19.6 661 17.9 Loss earnings diluted 147 4.1 967 25.8 2006 2005 Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary m share m share c Discontinued operations Loss earnings basic 45 1.2 8 0.2 Loss earnings diluted 45 1.2 8 0.2 Certain re-measurements note 2 included within operating profit comprise re-measurement arising on our energy procurement activities and re-measurement of proprietary trades in relation to cross-border transportation or capacity contracts.
All other re-measurement is included within results before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
In addition to basic and adjusted earnings per ordinary share, information is presented for diluted earnings per ordinary share.
Under this presentation, no adjustments are made to the reported earnings for either 2006 or 2005, but the weighted average number of shares used as the denominator is adjusted, for potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
In 2006, no outstanding awards or options are considered to be potentially dilutive, because they would decrease the loss per share.
2006 2005 million million shares shares Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share 3,643 3,688 Estimated vesting of Long Term Incentive Scheme shares 24 Dilutive effect of shares to be issued at a discount to market value under the Sharesave Schemes 34 Potentially dilutive shares issuable under the Executive Share Option Scheme 5 Estimated vesting of Share Award Scheme shares Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share 3,643 3,751 64 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 12.
Goodwill m Cost and net book value 1 January 2006 1,170 Acquisitions 4 Exchange adjustments 119 31 December 2006 1,055 Goodwill arising of 4 million relates to adjustments to deferred consideration on prior year acquisitions.
m Cost and net book value 1 January 2005 1,049 Acquisitions 109 Disposals 97 Exchange adjustments 109 31 December 2005 1,170 The net book value of goodwill at 31 December related to the following acquisitions: 2006 2005 m m Direct Energy 288 328 Energy America 23 26 Enron Direct Electricity Direct 133 133 Enbridge Services 177 205 CPL WTU 188 210 ATCO 40 46 Dyno-Rod 17 17 Residential Services Group 68 77 Oxxio 83 84 Other 38 44 1,055 1,170 13.
Other intangible assets Renewable Application obligation Customer software i certificates Brands ii relationships Consents Other Total m m m m m m m Cost 1 January 2006 535 48 57 41 29 5 715 Additions acquired from a third party 15 60 4 30 109 Additions directly attributable costs 71 4 75 Acquisitions note 28 27 27 Disposals 20 2 22 Surrenders 81 81 iii Write-downs 196 196 Exchange adjustments 7 3 10 31 December 2006 398 27 57 69 29 37 617 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2006 135 10 1 146 Charge for the year 48 11 14 73 Disposals 18 18 Exchange adjustments 5 1 6 31 December 2006 160 20 15 195 Net book value 31 December 2006 238 27 57 49 29 22 422 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 65 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13.
Other intangible assets continued Amortisation arising on application software and other intangible assets is charged to operating costs in the Income Statement.
i Included within application software are amounts for billing and customer relationship management systems.
At 31 December 2006 the net book value of these systems is 101 million 2005: 323 million.
The remaining amortisation periods of these systems range from five to 10 years.
ii Brands represent the Dyno-Rod brand, acquired on the acquisition of the Dyno group of companies during 2004.
In accordance with IAS 38 paragraph 88, management has ascribed the brand an indefinite useful life because there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the Dyno brand is expected to generate net cash inflows.
In reaching this determination, management have reviewed potential threats from competition, the risks of technological obsolescence and the expected usage of the brand by management.
iii The Group has written down certain of its major systems developments following a review of existing and required systems functionality.
The reduced functionality has occurred as a result of changes to the Group structure since the beginning of the development projects and recognition of the reduced benefits arising from the systems as ultimately implemented.
Costs associated with functionality no longer in use have been written off.
The charge to intangible assets includes write-downs in British Gas Residential of 178 million and 18 million in British Gas Services.
iv There are no internally generated intangible assets 2005: nil.
Renewable Application obligation Customer software certificates Brands relationships Consents Other Total m m m m m m m Cost 1 January 2005 419 71 57 8 29 2 586 Additions acquired from a third party 41 55 3 99 Additions directly attributable costs 75 75 Acquisitions 132 33 Disposals 5 5 Surrenders 78 78 Disposal of subsidiary 3 3 Exchange adjustments 7 1 8 31 December 2005 535 48 57 41 29 5 715 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2005 67 1 68 Charge for the year 67 10 77 Disposals 4 4 Disposal of subsidiary 1 1 Exchange adjustments 6 6 31 December 2005 135 10 1 146 Net book value 31 December 2005 400 48 57 31 29 4 569 14.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives Goodwill acquired through business combinations and indefinite lived intangibles have been allocated to cash-generating units as follows: 2006 2005 restated i Carrying Carrying Carrying amount of Carrying amount of amount of indefinite amount of indefinite Acquisition to which goodwill lived brand Total goodwill lived brand Total Cash-generating unit goodwill relates m m m m m m British Gas Enron Direct Electricity Business Direct 133 133 133 133 British Gas Services Dyno-Rod 17 57 74 17 57 74 Texas residential energy CPL WTU 188 188 210 210 ii Canada mass markets Direct Energy ATCO 253 253 287 287 Canada Direct Energy ii business services Direct Energy ATCO 75 75 87 87 Canada home services Enbridge Services 177 177 205 205 US home services Residential Services Group 68 68 77 77 Europe Oxxio Oxxio 83 83 84 84 iii Other Various 61 61 70 70 1,055 57 1,112 1,170 57 1,227 Europe SPE Luminus 26 26 26 26 i In accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations, the provisional fair values assigned to the assets and liabilities of Segebel SA were reassessed within 12 months of the acquisition date, and the comparative information restated.
The goodwill arising on acquisition has reduced by 23 million as a result of the restatement.
66 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 14.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives continued ii During 2006, the aggregation of assets comprising certain cash-generating units within North America, specifically the Canada region, changed from a regional to a product method of aggregation.
This resulted from reporting hierarchy changes and will allow management to more effectively monitor those businesses.
The impact of this change is that the 2005 cash-generating units Canada residential energy west and Canada residential energy east have been replaced by cash generating units Canada mass markets and Canada Direct Energy business services in the current year.
iii Comprises goodwill balances allocated across multiple cash-generating units.
The amount of goodwill allocated to each cashgenerating unit is not significant compared to the aggregate carrying value of goodwill reported within the Group.
Goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are indications that amounts might be impaired.
The impairment test involves determining the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units, which corresponds to the fair value less costs to sell or the value in use.
Value in use calculations have been used to determine recoverable amounts for the cashgenerating units noted above.
These are determined using cash flow budgets, which are based on business plans for a period of five years.
These business plans have been approved by the Board and are valid when the impairment test is performed.
The plans are based on past experience as well as future expected market trends.
Cash flows beyond the five-year plan period used in the value in use calculations are increased in line with historic long-term growth rates in the UK, or where applicable the US, Canada, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Discount rates applied to the cash flow forecasts in determining recoverable amounts are derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital and for North American cash-generating units range from 9.4% to 9.5%, and for UK and Europe cashgenerating units range from 8.5% to 11.1% on a pre-tax basis.
Growth rates used to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond the period covered by the most recent forecasts range from 0% to 3%.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations determining recoverable amounts for the specific cash-generating units noted above are: British Gas Business X Budgeted gross margin: for existing contract customers this is based on contracted margins.
For new and renewal contract customers this is based on achieved gross margin in the period prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted in some areas to reflect market conditions.
For tariff customers this is based on current prices in the period prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for Centricas view of the forward energy curve.
X Budgeted market share: based on the average market share achieved immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for growth forecasts based on sales and marketing activity.
British Gas Services Dyno-Rod X Budgeted franchise fee income: based on the average income achieved immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for growth forecasts based on sales and marketing activity.
X Budgeted cost growth: based on the cost growth in the period prior to the approval of the business plan.
Texas residential energy X Budgeted gross margin: based on the average gross margin achieved prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for managements expectations of a post-price to beat environment.
X Budgeted customer numbers: based on past experience in the three years prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for an expected marginal decline in customer numbers.
X Budgeted consumption: based on past experience of the average consumption per customer prior to the approval of the business plan.
X Budgeted prices: based on a combination of Centricas view of forward gas and power prices in Texas immediately prior to the approval of the business plan and the price impact of targeted margins.
Canada mass markets X Budgeted gross margin: for existing customers this is based on contracted margins.
For new or renewal customers this is based on achieved gross margin in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan.
X Budgeted market share: based on average market share achieved in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for growth and decline assumptions specific to each of the competitive and regulated businesses.
X Budgeted market prices: for existing customers this is based on contracted prices.
For new or renewal customers, this is based on Centricas view of forward gas and power prices in Canada.
Canada Direct Energy business services X Budgeted gross margin: for commodity gross margin, this is based on Centricas view of forward gas and power curves, immediately prior to the approval of the business plan while adding historically known gross margin targets by business line.
For services gross margin, this is based on past experience immediately prior to the approval of the business plan.
X Budgeted market share: based on average market share achieved in the period prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for growth forecasts supported by sales and marketing activity.
X Budgeted churn: based on past experience of the average churn prior to the approval of the business plan.
X Budgeted market prices: based on Centricas view of forward gas and power curves immediately prior to the approval of the business plan.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 67 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives continued Canada home services X Budgeted gross margin: based on achieved gross margin in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan.
X Budgeted revenue growth: based on the average achieved revenue growth for the three-year period prior to the approval of the business plan, uplifted for additional product offerings.
US home services X Budgeted gross margin: based on achieved gross margin in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan.
X Budgeted revenue growth: based on the average achieved revenue growth in the Canada home services group over the last three years prior to the approval of the business plan, uplifted for growth targets based on expected market penetration in certain key US state markets.
Europe Oxxio X Budgeted revenue growth: based on revenue in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, uplifted for expected growth in customer base, cross selling of products and reduction of customer churn.
X Budgeted gross margin: based on the average gross margin in periods prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for the expected impact arising from the unbundling of the gas and electricity markets going forward.
X Budgeted operating expenditure: based on historical trends adjusted for cost improvement programmes including process optimisation implemented.
Europe SPE X Budgeted gross margin: based on the achieved gross margins in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan.
X Budgeted customer numbers: based on customer numbers prior to the approval of the business plan adjusted for improvements resulting from further liberalisation of the Belgian energy market.
X Budgeted market price: based on managements view of forward gas and power prices in Belgium immediately prior to the approval of the Business plan.
X Budgeted consumption: based on the average consumption per customer prior to the approval of the business plan.
Centrica is of the opinion that, based on current knowledge, expected changes in the aforementioned key assumptions on which the determination of the recoverable amounts are based would not cause the carrying amounts of the cash-generating units to exceed the recoverable amounts.
Property, plant and equipment Storage, Plant, exploration and Land and equipment Power production buildings and vehicles generation iii, iv, v, i ii, iii iii, iv vi, vii Total m m m m m Cost 1 January 2006 45 646 1,632 4,570 6,893 Additions 75107 327 509 Acquisitions note 28 31 3 34 Disposals 7 144 12 28 191 Revisions and additions to decommissioning liability 87 87 Exchange adjustments 62 26 55 143 31 December 2006 38 515 1,732 4,904 7,189 Aggregate depreciation and impairment 1 January 2006 17 168 143 2,895 3,223 Charge for the year 1 87 107 311 506 Disposals 2 135 3 26 166 Exchange adjustments 31 3 19 53 31 December 2006 16 89 244 3,161 3,510 Net book value 31 December 2006 22 426 1,488 1,743 3,679 68 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 15.
Property, plant and equipment continued Storage, Plant, exploration and Land and equipment Power production buildings and vehicles generation iii, iv, v, i ii, iii iii, iv vi, vii Total m m m m m Cost 1 January 2005 59 648 1,379 4,030 6,116 Additions 94100 456650 Acquisitions 11181 4187 Transfers from joint ventures 249 249 Revaluation 14 14 Disposals 15 58 315 3 391 Disposal of subsidiary 86 86 Revisions and additions to decommissioning liability 7 34 41 Exchange adjustments 47 17 49 113 31 December 2005 45 646 1,632 4,570 6,893 Aggregate depreciation and impairment 1 January 2005 30 159 112 2,646 2,947 Charge for the year 1 84 90 237 412 Disposals 14 54 60 2 130 Disposal of subsidiary 33 33 Exchange adjustments 12 1 14 27 31 December 2005 17 168 143 2,895 3,223 Net book value 31 December 2005 28 478 1,489 1,675 3,670 i The net book value of land and buildings comprises the following: 2006 2005 m m Freeholds 14 10 Long leaseholds 1 10 Short leaseholds 7 8 22 28 ii The net book value of the fixed assets of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund the Fund within plant, equipment and vehicles was 197 million 2005: 210 million.
Debt issued by a subsidiary of the Fund, without recourse to the Group, is secured on these assets.
iii Assets in the course of construction capitalised during the year are included within the following categories of property, plant and equipment: 2006 2005 m m Plant, equipment and vehicles 11 2 Power generation 45 16 Storage, exploration and production 52 13 2006 2005 m m iv Assets held under finance leases Cost at 1 January 1,302 1,200 Additions 413 Disposals 311 5 Cost at 31 December 1,297 1,302 Aggregate depreciation at 1 January 390 396 Charge for the year 45 54 Disposals 60 2 Aggregate depreciation at 31 December 433 390 Net book value at 31 December 864 912 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 69 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15.
Property, plant and equipment continued The net book value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases and the associated depreciation charge for the year is included in the following categories of property, plant and equipment: Net book Depreciation value charge m m Power generation 793 39 Storage, exploration and production 71 6 864 45 Power generation assets are subject to the following restrictions: 2006 2005 m m Net book value of assets to which title is restricted Spalding finance lease asset 407 434 Net book value of assets pledged as security for liabilities 386 411 v The net book value of decommissioning costs included within storage, exploration and production assets was 124 million 2005: 85 million.
vi Additions within storage, exploration and production include the purchase of a further 4.84% interest in the UK Statfjord oil and gas field from BP for 153 million.
This transaction was completed on 30 June 2006.
The consideration paid was allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired.
In addition to fixed assets of 150 million, a 31 million provision and asset for decommissioning and 3 million for working capital were recognised.
2006 2005 m m vii Exploration for and evaluation of natural gas resources Net book value of exploration and evaluation costs included within storage, exploration and production assets at 1 January 16 16 Exploration and evaluation costs capitalised during the year 34 36 Exploration and evaluation costs transferred to producing assets and becoming subject to depreciation 2 2 Exploration and evaluation costs depreciated in the year 34 20 Exchange adjustments 4 Net book value of exploration and evaluation costs included within storage, exploration and production assets at 31 December 24 16 16.
Interests in joint ventures and associates Investments in joint ventures and associates Shareholder Investments Goodwill loans Total m m m m a Share of net assets cost 1 January 2006 185 26 12 223 Increase in shareholder loans 11 11 Share of losses for the year 12 12 Exchange adjustments 2 2 31 December 2006 171 26 23 220 70 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 16.
Interests in joint ventures and associates continued Restated i Investments in joint ventures and associates Shareholder Investments Goodwill loans Total m m m m 31 December 2004 131 51 24 206 Adoption of IAS 39 14 14 1 January 2005 as restated 117 51 24 192 i Additions 137 137 Increase in shareholder loans 24 24 Conversion of shareholder loans to equity shares 36 36 i, iii Disposals 14 25 39 ii Transfer to subsidiaries 112 112 Dividends received 16 16 Share of profits less losses for the year 37 37 31 December 2005 185 26 12 223 i On 28 September 2005, the Group entered into a 50 50 joint venture Segebel SA with Gaz fide France.
Segebel SA holds a controlling stake of 51% in SPE SA, a Belgian energy company.
At the time of the acquisition, SPE SA acquired the Groups 50 50 joint venture energy supply business, Luminus NV, for shares.
The acquisition of Luminus NV by SPE SA was treated as a partial 24.5% disposal by the Group, resulting in a loss of 1 million.
In accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations, the provisional fair values assigned to the assets and liabilities of Segebel SA were reassessed within 12 months of the acquisition date, and the comparative information restated.
The goodwill arising on acquisition has reduced by 23 million, and the share of net assets acquired at acquisition has increased by 23 million as a result of the restatement.
ii On 19 September 2005, the Group acquired the remaining 40% stake in Humber Power Limited, and accordingly Humber Power Limited has been treated as a subsidiary of the Group from that date.
The Groups 60% share of the assets and liabilities of Humber Power Limited were consolidated in the Group Balance Sheet at the date of acquisition.
iii On 11 October 2005 the Group disposed of its 49% share holding in AccuRead Limited for cash consideration of 11 million, resulting in a pre-tax profit on disposal of 8 million.
b Share of joint ventures assets and liabilities The Groups share of joint ventures gross assets and gross liabilities at 31 December 2006 principally comprises its interests in Barrow Offshore Wind Limited renewable power generation and Segebel SA energy supply.
The Group also acquired a 55% joint venture interest in Coots Limited CO pipeline construction during the year.
The Groups share of the assets and liabilities of Coots 2 Limited at 31 December 2006 is nil.
2006 2005 restated i Barrow Offshore Segebel Wind Limited SA Total Total m m m m Share of current assets 8 101 109 136 Share of non-current assets 63 236 299 321 71 337 408 457 Share of current liabilities 30 67 96 97 Share of non-current liabilities 6 108 150 114 36 175 246 211 Shareholder loans 23 23 12 Interests in joint ventures and associates 58 162 220 223 Net debt cash included in share of net assets 22 17 4 5 i In accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations, the provisional fair values assigned to the assets and liabilities of Segebel SA were reassessed within 12 months of the acquisition date, and the comparative information restated.
The effect of the restatement is to increase share of current assets by 27 million, to increase share of non-current assets by 12 million, to increase share of current liabilities by 27 million, and to increase share of non-current liabilities by 12 million.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 71 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16.
Interests in joint ventures and associates continued 2006 2005 Barrow Offshore Segebel Wind Limited SA Total Total m m m m c Share of joint ventures result Income 4 340 344 382 Expenses 4 359 335 363 19 47 19 Tax 7 7 10 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 12 37 12 The Groups share of the investment in and results of Barrow Offshore Wind Limited is included within the Centrica Energy segment, within the Industrial and wholesaling sub-segment.
The Groups share of the investment in and results of Segebel SA are included within the European Energy segment.
Inventories 2006 2005 m m Gas in storage and transportation 168 108 Other raw materials and consumables 77 74 Finished goods and goods for resale 25 14 270 196 Inventories include 41 million which is carried at fair value less cost to sell, being lower than cost 2005: 77 million.
The Group consumed 390 million of inventories 2005: 184 million during the year.
Trade and other receivables 2006 2005 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Trade receivables, net of provisions for impairment 1,192 13 944 25 Accrued energy income 1,762 1,968 Other receivables 334 3 244 Prepayments and other accrued income 302 265 3,590 16 3,421 25 19.
Cash and cash equivalents 2006 2005 m m Cash at bank, in transit and in hand 29 21 Short-term deposits 611 1,218 Cash and cash equivalents 640 1,239 Cash and cash equivalents included 38 million 2005: 30 million held by the Groups insurance subsidiary undertakings and 17 million 2005: 25 million held by The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund.
These amounts are not readily available to be used for other purposes within the Group.
72 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 20.
Bank overdrafts and loans 2006 2005 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Amounts falling due: vi, vii a Businesses recourse borrowings i Bank overdrafts and loans 56 105 259 504 Other bank loans: ii Bonds 1,181 422 iii Commercial paper 100 377 Loan notes 3 Obligations under finance leases viii including power station tolling arrangements 25 783 19 809 181 2,072 655 1,735 vi, vii b Businesses non-recourse borrowings iv Canadian dollar bonds 218 250 v Units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 265 282 181 2,555 655 2,267 The Groups management of exposures to financial instruments, and an analysis of effective interest rates is detailed in note 33. i The Group issued a 65 million dual currency loan on 19 December 2006. ii The Group made a number of note issues during the year: 250 million notes issued on 9 March 2006, 150 million notes on 4 September 2006, 67 million floating rate note on 8 September 2006 and 300 million notes on 24 October 2006. iii Commercial paper has a face value of 102 million 2005: 382 million.
iv Canadian dollar bonds have a face value of 218 million 2005: 250 million.
This debt is issued by The Consumers Waterheater Trust, a wholly owned subsidiary of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund the Fund, which is consolidated in the Group Financial Statements.
The debt is secured solely on the assets of the Fund and its subsidiaries, without recourse to the Group.
These bonds were issued in two series and have a maturity date of greater than five years bearing interest between 4.700% and 5.245% respectively.
v Units of the Fund are traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange and are treated as debt in the Group Financial Statements.
vi Maturity profile of the Groups borrowings: 2006 2005 m m a Businesses recourse borrowings: Within one year 181 655 Between one and two years 107 386 Between two and five years 404 171 After five years 1,561 1,178 2,253 2,390 b Businesses non-recourse borrowings: After five years 483 532 2,736 2,922 Businesses recourse borrowings include amounts repayable on demand of 48 million 2005: 62 million.
At 31 December 2006, the Group had undrawn committed bank borrowing facilities of 1,300 million 2005: 1,000 million which mature in 2010.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 73 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 20.
Bank overdrafts and loans continued vii Currency composition of the Groups borrowings: 2006 2005 m m a Businesses recourse borrowings: Sterling 1,979 1,911 US dollars 162 417 Euros 68 Canadian dollars 3 47 Japanese yen 41 15 2,253 2,390 b Businesses non-recourse borrowings: Canadian dollars 483 532 2,736 2,922 The businesses borrowings are denominated in a number of foreign currencies and are either swapped into sterling or maintained in the foreign currency as a hedge for foreign currency investments, in accordance with Group policy for management of exposures note 33.
2006 2005 Present value of Present value of Minimum lease minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease payments payments payments payments m m m m viii Future finance lease commitments Amounts payable: Within one year 51 25 49 19 Between one and five years 248 153 219 110 After five years 767 630 849 699 1,066 808 1,117 828 Less future finance charges 258 289 Present value of lease obligations 808 828 In addition to the minimum lease payments, tolling charges are payable, calculated based on effective operating hours of the station.
In the year, 18 million of tolling charges were paid in respect of the Spalding tolling contract 2005 included the Humber tolling contract up to the date of the Groups acquisition of the remaining stake in Humber Power Limited: 20 million.
The Group has an option to extend the Spalding tolling arrangement.
To exercise this option, notice must be given to the operator, prior to 30 September 2020.
Should this option be exercised, by serving further notice the Group has an option to purchase the station.
At this time, the generator has the option to retain the station and terminate the tolling contract.
Valuation of these options will be determined by an expert panel, appointed by both parties.
The minimum lease payments and the tolling charges based on equivalent operating hours are subject to escalation based on a market of indices.
There are no restrictions under the finance leases in either the current or prior year.
Trade and other payables 2006 2005 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Trade payables 982 1,400 Other payables 849 47 1,134 89 Transportation 16 34 Other accruals 1,259 874 Accruals 1,275 908 Deferred income 185 8 99 13 3,291 55 3,541 102 74 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 22.
Deferred and current corporation tax liabilities and assets The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting period: Other timing Accelerated Accelerated differences tax Deferred Deferred Retirement benefit tax including depreciation corporation Decommissioning corporation obligation depreciation losses petroleum tax effect petroleum tax effect and other corporation carried Mark-torevenue tax thereon revenue tax thereon provisions tax forward market Total m m m m m m m m m 1 January 2005 229 92 62 25 212 418 93 44 169 Charge credit to income 30 20 3 1 3 11 161 139 Charge credit to equity 37 4 117 84 Acquisition disposal of subsidiary 54 54 Transfers 19 19 Exchange adjustments 11 9 20 31 December 2005 180 72 59 24 249 480 100 243 447 Change to rate on UK upstream profits 18 6 32 11 9 Charge credit to income 3 1 4 2 17 95 110 266 268 Charge credit to equity 143 312 169 Exchange adjustments 4 4 31 December 2006 177 32 607 15 89 63 89 221 339 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2006 2005 m m Deferred tax liabilities 241 743 Deferred tax assets 296 226 15 447 At the balance sheet date the Group had certain deductible temporary differences of 318 million 2005: 576 million available for utilisation against future profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences, due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
These assets may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date temporary differences of 36 million 2005: 66 million existed in respect of the Groups overseas investments.
The deferred tax liability arising on these temporary differences is estimated to be 8 million 2005: 8 million, which has been provided.
At the balance sheet date there were current deferred tax assets of 32 million 2005: nil and liabilities of 34 million 2005: nil.
Current tax assets of 98 million 2005: nil include 94 million of recoverable petroleum revenue tax PRT.
This sum is a refund of instalment payments made during the second half of 2006 which are in excess of the final liability.
PRT instalment payments are calculated by reference to the previous periods profitability not the profits of the period in which they are paid.
The excess will be repaid in March 2007.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 75 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 23.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Acquisitions Unused and Transferred 1 January and Charged in reversed in Revisions and from non- 31 December Current provisions 2006 the year additions Utilised 2006 disposals vi the year current for other liabilities and charges m m m m m m m m i Restructuring costs 104 87 23 7 73 102 ii Sales contract loss provision 4 27 15 16 v Other 35 19 34 3 6 41 12 143 121 27 13 130 19 26 129 Acquisitions Unused and 1 January and Charged in reversed in Revisions and Transferred to Exchange 31 December Non-current provisions 2006 disposals vi the year the year additions current adjustments 2006 for other liabilities and charges m m m m m m m m i Restructuring costs 30 26 3 7 46 iii Decommissioning costs 326 24 1087 4 395 iv Renegotiation provisions 91 5 11 85 v Other 35 8 4 6 25 482 45 87 551 32 14 13 4 i During the year the Group undertook a significant restructuring programme to achieve its stated cost reduction targets.
The restructure involved a reduction in roles of 1,544 and the exit of the British Gas Residential head office.
The provision represents costs relating to surplus properties, redundancy and other costs relating to reorganisations.
The element relating to surplus properties was calculated with reference to the expected cost to the date of the exit of the lease, including costs for dilapidations and marketing for the vacant building.
The charge to income for the year included 87 million for exceptional redundancy and other reorganisation costs note 6.
The exceptional charge comprises staff reduction costs at the corporate centre 3 million, British Gas Residential 16 million, British Gas Services 48 million, and changes to the property portfolio 20 million.
The majority of these sums are expected to be utilised during 2007.
Included within the provision for 2005 were liabilities arising in the pension schemes of 13 million in respect of redundancy costs.
In 2006 such liabilities of 17 million have been included within the pension liability on the Balance Sheet.
ii The sales contract loss provision relates to the acquisition of a portfolio of gas customers by the Group.
Certain of the contracts acquired were identified as being out of the money at the date of acquisition, and the sales contract loss provision was established in respect of them.
The acquisition was not considered to constitute a business combination under the requirements of IFRS 3. iii Provision has been made for the estimated net present cost of decommissioning gas production and storage facilities at the end of their useful lives.
The estimate has been based on proven and probable reserves, price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.
The timing of decommissioning payments are dependent on the lives of the facilities but are anticipated to occur between 2007 and 2042.
The charge to income includes 10 million of notional interest 2005: 10 million.
iv In previous years, the Group renegotiated certain long-term take-or-pay contracts which would have resulted in commitments to pay for gas that would be excess to requirements and or at prices above likely market rates.
The provision represents the net present cost of estimated payments due to suppliers as consideration for the renegotiations, which are due for settlement in 2008 based on the reserves in a group of third-party fields.
The movement in the year included 11 million released to the Income Statement following a revision of the estimated future payments.
The charge for the year includes 5 million of notional interest.
v Other provisions include outstanding litigation for a number of items none of which are individually significant and provision for National Insurance payable in respect of Long Term Incentive Scheme liabilities.
The National Insurance provision was based on a share price of 354.50 pence at 31 December 2006 31 December 2005: 254.75 pence and is expected to be utilised between 2007 and 2009. vi Acquisitions and disposals of other provisions included utilisation of provisions relating to the cost of disposal of the AA 15 million and Onetel 2 million, and release of a provision in respect of the disposal of Onetel 10 million, note 28.
Acquisitions and disposals of decommissioning provisions wholly related to the disposal of the Hewett gas field.
76 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 24.
Called up share capital 2006 2005 m m Authorised share capital of the Company 14 4,455,000,000 ordinary shares of 6 p each 81 14 2005: 4,455,000,000 ordinary shares of 6 p each 275 275 81 100,000 cumulative redeemable preference shares of 1 each Allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company 14 3,662,721,068 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 14 2005: 3,623,982,266 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 226 224 The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company for the year was as follows: 2006 2005 Number Number 1 January 3,623,982,266 3,775,817,747 i Shares repurchased 164,654,278 8,950,000 ii Shares issued under employee share schemes 47,688,802 12,818,797 31 December 3,662,721,068 3,623,982,266 The closing price of a Centrica ordinary share on 31 December 2006 was 354.50 pence 2005: 254.75 pence.
i During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 8.95 million ordinary shares at prices ranging from 248.43 pence per share to 254.98 pence per share, with an average of 250.30 pence per share.
The total cost of the purchases including expenses was 23 million which has been charged against distributable reserves, of which 0.6 million related to the nominal value and has been recognised in the capital redemption reserve.
The share repurchase programme is currently suspended.
ii The Centrica Employees Share Trust was established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company by subscription or purchase, with funds provided by way of interest-free loans or by capital contribution from the Company to satisfy rights to shares on the vesting of allocations made under the Companys long-term incentive arrangements.
Dividends due on shares held in trust are waived in accordance with the trust deed.
All administration costs are borne by the Group.
During the year 7.6 million shares were issued to the Trust and subsequently released in order to satisfy exercises of awards under employee share schemes.
The Trust received a capital contribution from the Company in order to fund the subscription.
The Company has deemed the consideration received for the shares to be equivalent to the fair value of the shares vesting 9 million.
There were nil million shares held by the Trust at 31 December 2006 2005: nil million.
2006 2005 Number Number of shares Cost Market value of shares Cost Market value million m m million m m 1 January 6.4 15 15 Shares purchased 1.3 3 3 Shares subscribed 7.6 22 22 Shares released under Long Term Incentive Scheme 7.7 18 18 7.6 22 22 31 December Ordinary shares were also allotted and issued to satisfy the exercise of share options and the matching element of the Share Incentive Plan as follows: 2006 2005 Number 47,688,802 12,818,797 Nominal value m 2.9 0.8 Consideration m net of issue costs nil 2005: nil 56 22 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 77 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25.
Share-based payments Centrica operates six employee share schemes the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS, Sharesave, the Share Award Scheme SAS, the Share Incentive Plan SIP and the Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP.
These are described in the Directors Report Corporate Responsibility on page 26 and in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 36.
There were no other share-based payment transactions during the period.
ESOS Under the ESOS the Board may grant options over shares in Centrica plc to employees of the Group.
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares at the date of grant.
The contractual life of an option is ten years.
Awards under the ESOS are generally reserved for employees at senior management level and above and 77 employees are currently eligible to participate.
Options granted under the ESOS will become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the growth in earnings per share over that period exceeding RPI growth by more than 18 percentage points.
The number of options becoming exercisable is reduced on a sliding scale if EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by between nine and 18 percentage points.
Options granted up to March 2004 also permit retesting of EPS growth annually for a further two years.
Exercise of options is subject to continued employment within the Group.
Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
Early exercise has been taken into account by estimating the expected life of the options.
The fair values and the related assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 27 April 23 September 1 April 1 September 18 March 1 September 24 March 2006 2005 2005 2004 2004 2003 2003 Grant date Share price at grant date 2.99 2.46 2.28 2.46 2.28 1.80 1.47 Exercise price 2.85 2.51 2.29 2.45 2.24 1.78 1.47 Number of options originally granted 6,220,098 291,235 8,339,818 195,795 8,815,399 635,599 13,319,276 Vesting period 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs i Expected volatility 24% 30% 30% 27% 27% 35% 35% Contractual option life 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs Expected life 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs Risk-free rate 4.70% 4.80% 4.70% 5.00% 5.01% 4.45% 4.44% Expected dividend yield 4.10% 4.37% 4.37% 4.82% 4.82% 3.09% 3.09% Expected forfeitures 25% 25% 25% 25% 25% 25% 25% Fair value per option 0.59 0.50 0.49 0.47 0.45 0.51 0.41 i The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years, except in the case of options granted in 2003, where historical volatility over the preceding three years was 43%.
This was felt to be unrepresentative because it included a significant period of exceptionally high volatility in 1999 2000.
In this case the volatility was reassessed ignoring this period.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the expected option life.
78 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 25.
Share-based payments continued LTIS Under the LTIS, allocations of shares in Centrica plc are made to employees of the Group.
Awards under the LTIS are generally reserved for employees at senior management level and above and 259 employees are currently eligible to participate.
For awards made up to 2005, the number of shares that are to be released to participants is calculated subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR during the three years following the grant date, compared to the TSR of other shares in the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
The number of shares released is reduced on a sliding scale if Centricas TSR is ranked between 50th and 25th.
Shares are released to participants immediately following the end of the period in which TSR performance is assessed, but release of shares is subject to continued employment within the Group at the date of release.
Allocations were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations, through the use of a Monte Carlo simulation model.
For awards made from 2006, the vesting of only half of each award is made on the basis of TSR performance.
For this half of the award, the calculation of TSR performance as compared to the TSR of other FTSE 100 Index shares is consistent with awards made to the end of 2005, except that allocations are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The number of shares released is increased on a sliding scale between 25% and 100% if Centricas TSR is ranked between 50th and 20th.
The vesting of the remaining half of awards made since 2006 is dependent on earnings per share EPS growth.
This is considered a non-market condition under IFRS 2 and dividends attach to the awards, requiring the shares to be fair valued at market value on the date of grant.
The likelihood of achieving the performance conditions is taken into account in calculating the number of awards expected to vest.
For shares that vest on awards made from 2006 for both TSR and EPS portions the cash payment is increased to reflect the dividends that would have been paid on them during the performance period.
The fair values and the related assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 4 September 19 May 2 May 23 September 1 April 1 September 1 April 1 September 1 April 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2004 2004 2003 2003 Grant date Share price at grant date 3.03 2.65 3.01 2.46 2.28 2.46 2.30 1.80 1.47 Exercise price nil nil nil nil nil nil nil nil nil Number of shares originally granted 654,396 1,456,064 6,153,355 456,421 8,408,130 310,460 9,765,341 665,69613,573,547 Vesting period 3 yrs 2.9 yrs 2.9 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs i Expected volatility 22% 22% 21% 30% 30% 27% 27% 35% 35% Contractual life 3 yrs 2.9 yrs 2.9 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs Expected life 3 yrs 2.9 yrs 2.9 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs Risk-free rate 4.80% 4.80% 4.70% 4.80% 4.68% 5.00% 5.04% 4.31% 3.88% Expected dividend yield n a n a n a 4.37% 4.37% 4.82% 4.82% 3.09% 3.09% Expected forfeitures 20% 20% 20% 20% 20% 20% 20% 20% 20% Average volatility of FTSE 100 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% Average cross-correlation of FTSE 100 ii ii 30% 30% 30% 30% ii ii ii Fair value per share allocated TSR awards 1.66 1.38 1.80 1.20 1.03 1.25 1.17 0.99 0.89 Fair value per share allocated EPS awards 3.03 2.65 3.01 n a n a n a n a n a n a i The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years, except in the case of options granted in 2003, where historical volatility over the preceding three years was 43%.
The expected life is the contract life.
A reconciliation of movements in allocations is shown below: 2006 2005 Number Number Outstanding at start of period 26,434,295 28,002,488 Granted 8,263,815 8,864,551 Exercised 7,538,399 7,715,506 Forfeited performance related 2,342,414 1,223,789 Forfeited non performance related 3,827,703 1,493,449 Outstanding at the end of the period 20,989,594 26,434,295 Exercisable at the end of the period 157,276 ii From 2005, the cross-correlation of the FTSE 100 has been obtained from a model which calculates the correlation between Centricas historical share price and each of the FTSE 100 over the period commensurate with the performance period of the awards.
For shares released during the period the weighted average share price was 2.89 2005: 2.40.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 79 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25.
Share-based payments continued Sharesave Under Sharesave the Board may grant options over shares in Centrica plc to UK-based employees of the Group.
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to 80% of the average market price of the shares for the three days prior to invitation which is three to four weeks prior to the grant date.
Employees pay a fixed amount from salary into a savings account each month, and may elect to save over three or five years.
At the end of the savings period, employees have six months in which to exercise their options using the funds saved, including interest earned.
If employees decide not to exercise their options, they may withdraw the funds saved, and the options expire.
80 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 25.
Share-based payments continued SAS Under the SAS, allocations of shares in Centrica plc are made to employees of the Group.
Awards under the SAS are generally reserved for certain selected employees at middle management levels, based on recommendation by the executive.
There is no contractual eligibility for SAS and each years award is made independently from previous awards.
For the 2006 award, 452 employees were eligible to participate.
Allocations are subject to no performance conditions and vest unconditionally subject to continued employment with the Group in two stages half of the awards vesting after two years, the other half vesting after three years.
On vesting, additional shares or a cash payment are made to reflect dividends that would have been paid on the allocations during the retention period.
The fair value is therefore considered to be the market value at date of grant.
The fair values and related assumptions used to calculate the cost to the Group are as follows: 3 April 3 April Grant date 2006 2006 Share price at grant date 2.84 2.84 Exercise price nil nil Number of options originally granted 780,367 780,143 Vesting period 3 yrs 2 yrs Contractual option life 3 yrs 2 yrs Expected forfeitures 25% 15% Fair value per option 2.84 2.84 A reconciliation of movements in the allocations is as follows: 2006 2005 Number Number Outstanding at start of period Granted 1,560,510 Shares sold and transferred out of the plan 3,096 Forfeited 92,855 Outstanding at end of period 1,464,559 Exercisable at end of period For shares released during the period the weighted average share price was 3.40 2005: nil.
SIP Under SIP, employees in the UK may purchase partnership shares through monthly salary deductions.
The Company then grants one matching share for every two purchased, up to a maximum of 20 matching shares per employee per month.
Both partnership shares and matching shares are held in a trust initially.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn at any time, but matching shares are forfeited if the related partnership shares are withdrawn within three years from the original purchase date.
Matching shares vest unconditionally for employees after being held for three years in the trust.
Vesting of matching shares is also subject to continued employment within the Group.
Matching shares are valued at the market price at the grant date.
The average fair value of these awards during the year was 2.97 2005: 2.36.
A reconciliation of matching shares held in trust is as follows: 2006 2005 Number Number Unvested at start of period 2,067,233 1,433,447 Granted 771,767 863,516 Shares sold and transferred out of the plan 138,554 199,711 Forfeited 91,176 138,373 Unvested at end of period 2,500,916 2,067,233 ESPP Under the ESPP, employees in North America purchase partnership shares through salary deductions.
The Company then grants one matching share for every two shares purchased.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn at any time, but the entitlement to matching shares is forfeited if the related partnership shares are withdrawn within two years from the original purchase date.
Matching shares vest unconditionally for employees after being held for two years.
The average fair value of these awards during the year was 2.97 2005: 2.37.
A reconciliation of matching shares granted is shown below: 2006 2005 Number Number Unvested at start of period 208,329 Granted 230,916 223,116 Vested 961 29,353 Forfeited 13,826 40,729 Unvested at end of period 369,163 208,329 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 81 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26.
Reserves Attributable to equity holders of the Company Capital Share Share Merger redemption Other Minority Total capital premium reserve reserve reserves Total interest equity m m m m m m m m 31 December 2005 224 595 467 15 1,085 2,386 56 2,442 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 23 23 23 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 475 475 475 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value losses 645 645 645 Transfers to Income Statement 294 294 294 Tax on items taken directly to from equity 169 169 169 224 59546715767 2,068 56 2,124 Loss for the year 155 1 155 154 Employee share option schemes: Share issue 3 62 65 65 Exercise of awards 9 9 9 Value of services provided 23 23 23 Repurchase of shares 1 1 23 23 23 Dividends 384 384 384 31 December 2006 226 657 467 16 219 1,585 57 1,642 Attributable to equity holders of the Company Capital Share Share Merger redemption Other Minority Total capital premium reserve reserve reserves Total interest equity m m m m m m m m 31 December 2004 233 575 467 5 809 2,089 219 2,308 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 179 179 164 343 1 January 2005 as restated 233 575 467 5 630 1,910 55 1,965 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 13 13 13 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 126 126 126 Gains on revaluation of acquired assets 14 14 14 Gains on revaluation of available for sale investments 2 2 2 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value gains 408 408 408 Transfers to Income Statement 74 74 74 Tax on items taken directly to from equity 84 84 84 233 57546757832,063 552,118 Profit for the year 1,012 1,012 1 1,013 Employee share option schemes: Purchase of treasury shares 3 3 3 Share issue 1 20 21 21 Value of services provided 21 21 21 Repurchase of shares 10 10 388 388 388 Dividends 340 340 340 31 December 2005 224 595 467 15 1,085 2,386 56 2,442 82 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 26.
Reserves continued Foreign currency Cash flow Total Revaluation translation hedging Profit and loss other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves Other reserves m m m m m 1 January 2006 10 3 301 777 1,085 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 23 23 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 475 475 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value losses 645 645 Transfers to Income Statement 294 294 Tax on items taken directly to from equity 312 143 169 10 26 326 1,109 767 Loss for the year 155 155 Employee share option schemes: Exercise of awards 9 9 Value of services provided 23 23 Repurchase of shares 23 23 Dividends 384 384 31 December 2006 10 561 219 26 326 Foreign currency Cash flow Total Revaluation translation hedging Profit and loss other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves m m m m m Other reserves 31 December 2004 809 809 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 68 247 179 1 January 2005 as restated 68 562 630 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 3 16 13 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 126 126 Gains on revaluation of acquired assets 14 14 Gain on revaluation of available for sale investments 2 2 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value gains 408 408 Transfers to Income Statement 74 74 Tax on items taken directly to from equity 4 117 37 84 10 3 301 475 783 Profit for the year 1,012 1,012 Employee share option schemes: Purchase of treasury shares 3 3 Value of services provided 21 21 Repurchase of shares 388 388 Dividends 340 340 31 December 2005 10 3 301 777 1,085 Merger reserve On 17 February 1997 BG plc formerly British Gas plc demerged certain businesses grouped together under GB Gas Holdings Limited GBGH to Centrica plc.
Prior to demerger, the companies comprising the Centrica businesses were transferred to GBGH, a subsidiary undertaking of BG plc.
Upon demerger the share capital of GBGH was transferred to Centrica plc and was recorded at the nominal value of shares issued to BG plc shareholders.
In accordance with sections 131 and 133 of the Companies Act 1985, no premium was recorded on the shares issued.
On consolidation, the difference between the nominal value of the Companys shares issued and the amount of share capital and share premium of GBGH at the date of demerger, was credited to a merger reserve.
Capital redemption reserve In accordance with section 170 1 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has transferred to the capital redemption reserve an amount equal to the nominal value of shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled.
The repurchase of shares includes transaction costs charged directly to the profit and loss reserve of nil 2005: 1 million.
Revaluation reserve During 2005, the revaluation of the Groups existing interest in Humber Power Limited to fair value, following the acquisition by the Group of the remaining 40% stake in the company, was recorded as a revaluation reserve adjustment.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 83 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26.
Reserves continued Foreign currency translation reserve Comprises exchange translation differences on foreign currency net investments, offset by exchange translation differences on borrowings and derivatives classified as net investment hedges under the requirements of IAS 39.
Exchange losses of 105 million 2005: 146 million gain on net investments in overseas undertakings have been offset in reserves against exchange gains of 82 million 2005: 133 million loss on foreign currency borrowings and other instruments used for hedging purposes.
Cash flow hedging reserve Comprises fair value movements on instruments designated as cash flow hedges under the requirements of IAS 39.
Share options Profit and loss reserve Other reserve Profit and loss reserve m m m 1 January 2006 42 735 777 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 475 475 Tax on items taken directly to from equity 143 143 42 1,067 1,109 Loss for the year 155 155 Employee share option schemes: Exercise of awards 27 18 9 Value of services provided 23 23 Repurchase of shares 23 23 Dividends 384 384 31 December 2006 38 523 561 Share options Profit and loss Treasury shares reserve Other reserve Profit and loss reserve m m m m 31 December 2004 15 24 800 809 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 247 247 1 January 2005 as restated 15 24 553 562 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 126 126 Gains on revaluation of available for sale investments 2 2 Tax on items taken directly to from equity 37 37 15 24 466 475 Profit for the year 1,012 1,012 Employee share option schemes: Purchase of treasury shares 3 3 Exercise of awards 18 3 15 Value of services provided 21 21 Repurchase of shares 388 388 Dividends 340 340 31 December 2005 42 735 777 Profit and loss reserve Cumulative actuarial gains arising on defined benefit pension schemes recognised in the profit and loss reserve amounted to 439 million 2005: 36 million loss.
Cumulative gains of 2 million 2005: 2 million on available for sale investments were included within the profit and loss reserve.
Aggregate tax taken directly to reserves amounted to a credit of 169 million 2005: 84 million charge, of which a charge of 143 million relates to deferred tax arising on actuarial gains on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes 2005: 37 million credit and a credit of 312 million relates to deferred tax arising on gains and losses on available for sale investments and cash flow hedges 2005: 121 million charge.
Minority interests Total m 1 January 2006 56 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 1 31 December 2006 57 Minority interests at 31 December 2006 related to a 30% economic interest held by Lloyds TSB Bank plc in the dormant legal entity formerly Goldfish Holdings Limited pending winding up of the company and its subsidiary, GF One Limited formerly Goldfish Bank Limited.
84 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 28.
Acquisitions and disposals i Acquisitions During the year the Group acquired the Paris Energy Centre and related gas pipeline through a 100% acquisition of Tenaska III Inc and Willowtex Pipeline Co.
The Group also acquired the assets including customer base of Entergy Solutions Ltd. Other smaller acquisitions are described in section c. The acquisition method of accounting was adopted in all cases.
The analysis of assets and liabilities acquired, and the fair value of these acquisitions are as shown below.
All intangible fixed assets were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual excess over the net assets acquired on each acquisition is recognised as goodwill in the Financial Statements.
The fair values stated are provisional because the Directors have not yet reached a final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise.
IFRS carrying values Fair pre-acquisition value m m a Tenaska III Inc and Willowtex Pipeline Co Property, plant and equipment 31 31 Inventory 11 Net assets acquired 32 32 Cash consideration 32 32 The Group acquired 100% of the partnership interest of Tenaska III Inc and 100% of the voting share capital of Willowtex Pipeline Co on 2 February 2006.
Tenaska III Inc owns the Paris Energy Centre, a 244 MW gas-fired combined cycle power station in Texas.
Willowtex Pipeline Co owns a 16 mile natural gas pipeline exclusively serving the plant.
The acquired business contributed a loss after tax of 2 million to the Group for the period from 2 February 2006 to 31 December 2006.
IFRS carrying values Fair pre-acquisition value m m b Entergy Solutions Ltd Intangible assets note 13 27 27 Trade and other receivables: non-current 11 Trade and other receivables: current 11 Trade and other payables: current 2 2 Trade and other payables: non-current 17 17 Net assets acquired 10 10 Cash consideration 10 10 The Group acquired the assets including more than 100,000 residential and commercial customers in the Houston and Dallas-Fort Worth areas and South Texas from Entergy Solutions Ltd on 24 April 2006.
The acquired assets contributed profit after tax of nil to the Group for the period from 24 April 2006 to 31 December 2006. c Other acquisitions The Group acquired the upstream gas assets of Frio Pipeline Co on 10 October 2006 consideration 3.3 million, goodwill nil and the assets of Mr. Air Conditioning and Heating Inc on 16 October 2006 consideration 0.5 million, goodwill 0.4 million and 85% of the voting share capital of Coastal Energy Limited consideration 1 million, goodwill nil.
The acquired businesses contributed to a loss after tax of 1 million to the Group from their respective dates of acquisition up to 31 December 2006.
The pro-forma consolidated results of the Group, as if the 2006 acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the period include revenues of 16,513 million and a loss after tax of 154 million.
The pro-forma results have been calculated using the Groups accounting policies.
In preparing the pro-forma results, revenue and costs have been included as if the business were acquired on 1 January 2006 and intercompany transactions had been eliminated.
This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of the combined Group that would have occurred had the purchases actually been made at the beginning of the period presented, or future results of the combined Group.
During 2006 the Group paid 50 million of deferred and contingent consideration in relation to prior year acquisitions, of which 40 million related to the acquisition of CPL WTU in 2002. ii Disposals Continuing operations During 2006 the Group paid 3 million for the construction and delivery of assets related to the order book of British Gas Connections Limited, which was disposed in 2005.
Assets are expected to be constructed for the next four years.
Discontinued operations During 2006 adjustments were made to the consideration received for the disposal of the AA in 2004 and Onetel in 2005.
These included a 15 million payment in respect of the AA, for which provision had previously been made.
The finalisation of the Onetel disposal has resulted in a charge to the Income Statement of 8 million, net of a 3 million tax credit.
At the time of the disposal, the Group agreed to provide 225,000 customer connections each year until 2008, and recognised a provision of 13 million in respect of the marginal cost of the connections.
During the year the Group exited this agreement for a payment of 21 million.
10 million of the provision was unutilised and has been released.
33 million has been received in respect of finalisation of working capital disposed.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 85 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement 2006 2005 m m a Reconciliation of Group operating profit to net cash flow from operating activities Continuing operations Group operating profit including share of result of joint ventures and associates 180 1,957 Less share of losses profits of joint ventures and associates 12 37 Group operating profit before share of joint ventures and associates 192 1,920 Add back: Amortisation of intangible assets 73 76 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 506 406 Systems write-down 196 Employee share scheme costs 23 17 Profit on sale of businesses note 28 3 53 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 17 17 Movement in provisions 84 42 i Re-measurement of energy contracts 911 455 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 1,965 1,936 Increase in inventories 22 83 Increase in receivables 269 260 Decrease increase in payables 299 149 Cash generated from continuing operations 1,473 1,944 Income taxes paid 311 320 Petroleum revenue tax paid 316 448 Net interest received 4 3 Payments relating to exceptional charges 113 48 Net cash flow from continuing operating activities 737 1,131 i Includes net 5 million 2005: nil unrealised losses profits arising from re-measurement of contracts, including those relating to proprietary trading and North American storage activities.
2006 2005 m m Discontinued operations Operating profit before share of joint ventures and associates 12 Add back: Amortisation of intangible assets 1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6 Employee share scheme costs 1 Movement in provisions 4 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 16 Increase in receivables 3 Cash generated from discontinued operations 13 Net cash flow from discontinued operating activities 13 Total cash flow from operating activities 737 1,144 2006 2005 m m b Net cash flow from investing activities Continuing operations 520 717 Discontinued operations note 28 9 3 Net cash flow from investing activities 720 529 2006 2005 m m c Net cash flow from financing activities Continuing operations 597 356 Discontinued operations 21 Net cash flow from financing activities 335 597 There were no additions to property, plant and equipment during the year financed by new finance leases.
Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the Balance Sheet comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
86 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 29.
Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement continued 2006 2005 m m d Net debt Non-current assets other financial assets 37 45 Current assets other financial assets 49 46 Current assets cash and cash equivalents 640 1,239 Current liabilities bank overdrafts and loans 655 181 Non-current liabilities bank loans and other borrowings 2,267 2,555 Net debt including non-recourse borrowings 1,592 2,010 Less non-recourse borrowings note 20 483 532 Net debt excluding non-recourse borrowings 1,060 1,527 30.
Pensions Substantially all of the Groups UK employees at 31 December 2006 were members of one of the three main schemes: the Centrica Pension Scheme formerly the Centrica Staff Pension Scheme, the Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme and the Centrica Management Pension Scheme the approved pension schemes.
The Centrica Pension Scheme final salary section and the Centrica Management Pension Scheme a final salary scheme were closed to new members from 1 April 2003.
The Centrica Pension Scheme has an open career average salary section.
The Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme final salary section was closed to new members from 1 April 2006, and a career average salary section was added to the scheme at that date.
These schemes are defined benefit schemes, and are tax-approved funded arrangements.
They are subject to independent valuations at least every three years, on the basis of which the qualified actuary certifies the rate of employers contributions which, together with the specified contributions payable by the employees and proceeds from the schemes assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the schemes.
The Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme is an unfunded arrangement which provides benefits to certain employees whose benefits under the main schemes would otherwise be limited by the earnings cap.
The Group also has a commitment to provide certain pension and post retirement benefits to employees of Direct Energy Marketing Limited Canada.
The latest full actuarial valuations were carried out at the following dates: the approved pension schemes at 31 March 2004, the Unapproved Pension Scheme at 6 April 2005 and the Direct Energy Marketing Limited pension plan at 14 June 2005.
These have been updated to 31 December 2006 for the purposes of meeting the requirements of IAS 19.
Investments have been valued, for this purpose, at market value.
At 31 December 2006, all of the schemes reported deficits when valued for the purposes of IAS 19.
31 December 31 December 2006 2005 % % Major assumptions used for the actuarial valuation Rate of increase in employee earnings 4.00 4.35 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.00 2.85 Discount rate 5.00 4.85 Inflation assumption 3.00 2.85 The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date have been based on a combination of standard actuarial mortality tables, scheme experience and other relevant data, and include a medium cohort allowance for future improvements in longevity, as published by the Institute of Actuaries.
The assumptions are equivalent to future longevity for members in normal health approximately as follows: Male Female Male Female Years Years Years Years Life expectancy at age 65 for a member: Currently aged 65 20.2 21.7 18.8 22.7 Currently aged 45 21.3 22.9 20.6 24.5 At the most recent actuarial review of the schemes there were approximately 20,850 male 2005: 19,850 and 11,050 female 2005: 11,050 members and beneficiaries.
The other demographic assumptions have been set having regard to the latest trends in scheme experience and other relevant data.
The assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuation of the pension schemes.
Change in assumption Indicative effect on scheme liabilities Impact of changing material assumptions Rate of increase in employee earnings Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 2% Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 4% Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.25% Decrease increase by 6% Inflation assumption Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 6% Longevity assumption Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by 2% Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 87 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30.
Pensions continued The market value and expected rate of return of the assets and the present value of the liabilities in the schemes at 31 December were: Expected rate Expected rate of return of return per annum Valuation per annum Valuation 2006 2006 2005 2005 31 December % m % m UK equities 7.8 1,486 7.9 1,182 Non-UK equities 7.8 857 8.0 841 Fixed-interest bonds 5.3 312 4.7 241 Interest-linked bonds 4.3 213 4.1 150 Property 6.2 68 6.3 83 Cash and other assets 5.0 52 3.7 73 Total fair value of plan assets 7.2 2,988 7.3 2,570 Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,390 3,284 i Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 296 820 Associated deferred tax asset recognised in the Balance Sheet 89 249 Net pension liability 571 207 i 17 million of the liability relates to loss on curtailments included within exceptional restructuring costs arising in the year 2005: 13 million.
In 2005, this amount was reflected in restructuring provisions within the Balance Sheet.
In 2006 it has been included with the pension liability.
The overall expected rate of return on assets is a weighted average based on the actual plan assets held and the respective expected returns on separate asset classes.
The return on separate asset classes were derived as follows: the expected rate of return on equities is based on the expected median return over a ten-year period, as calculated by the independent company actuary.
The median return over a longer period than ten years was not expected to be materially dissimilar.
The expected rate of return on bonds was measured directly from actual market yields for UK gilts and corporate bond stocks.
The rate above takes into account the actual mixture of UK gilts, UK corporate bonds and overseas bonds held at the balance sheet date.
The expected rate of return on property takes into account both capital growth and allowance for expenses, rental growth and depreciation.
The expected rate of return on cash is comparable to current bank interest rates.
Included within schemes liabilities above are 27 million 2005: 32 million relating to unfunded pension arrangements.
Included within other non-current financial assets are 29 million 2005: 31 million of money market investments, held by the Law Debenture Trust on behalf of the Company, as security in respect of the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme.
2006 2005 m m Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit Current service cost 143 122 i Plan amendment 20 Loss on curtailment 18 14 Net charge to operating profit 141 136 i The schemes rules were amended from 1 April 2006 to allow employees to commute a larger amount of their pension to a cash lump sum on retirement, in line with changes to the Finance Act.
Accordingly, the assumptions made in calculating the Groups defined benefit pension liability have been revised, and a gain of 20 million has been recognised in Group operating profit before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
2006 2005 m m Analysis of the amount credited charged to notional interest Expected return on pension scheme assets 153 194 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 168 150 Net credit to notional interest cost 3 26 Analysis of the actuarial gain loss recognised in the 2006 2005 Statement of Recognised Income and Expense m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 95 307 Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities 145 21 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the schemes liabilities 235 454 Actuarial gain loss to be recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before adjustment for tax 475 126 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in reserves at 31 December 439 36 88 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 30.
Pensions continued 2006 2005 2004 2003 History of deficit m m m m Plan assets 2,988 2,570 2,041 2,353 Defined benefit obligation 3,390 2,760 3,491 3,284 Deficit 820 719 1,138 296 2006 2005 2004 2003 History of experience gains and losses Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets: Amount m 95 307 64 202 Percentage of scheme assets 3.2% 11.9% 3.1% 8.6% Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: Amount m 145 21 134 64 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 4.4% 0.6% 4.9% 1.8% Total actuarial gain loss recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense: Amount m 475 126 90 281 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 14.5% 3.7% 3.3% 8.0% 2006 2005 Movement in the defined benefit obligation during the year m m 1 January 3,390 2,760 Movements in the year: Current service cost 143 119 Plan amendment 20 Loss on curtailment 18 14 Interest on scheme liabilities 168 150 Plan participants contributions 25 24 Benefits paid 60 48 Actuarial gain loss 380 433 Settlements curtailments paid from fund 62 31 December 3,284 3,390 2006 2005 m m Movement in plan assets during the year 1 January 2,570 2,041 Movements in the year: Expected return on scheme assets 194 153 Actuarial gain 95 307 Employer contributions 164 155 Plan participants contributions 25 24 Benefits paid 48 60 Settlements curtailments paid from fund 62 31 December 2,988 2,570 Agreed future contribution rates % of pensionable salary 2006 for the three main defined benefit schemes % Centrica Pension Scheme Final salary section 19.7 Centrica Pension Scheme CRIS section 8.0 Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme Final salary section 19.0 Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme CERIS section 8.0 Centrica Management Pension Scheme 26.2 A full actuarial valuation is carried out at least triennially for the independent scheme Trustees by a professionally qualified independent actuary.
The purpose of the valuation is to design a funding plan to ensure that present and future contributions should be sufficient to meet future liabilities.
Actuarial valuations of the approved schemes as at 31 March 2006 are currently underway.
Until the valuations are concluded, contributions will continue to be paid in accordance with the 2004 funding plan.
The Centrica Pension Scheme final salary section and the Centrica Management Pension Scheme were closed to new members from 1 April 2003.
The Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme final salary section was closed to new members from 1 April 2006.
Under the projected unit method, used to value pension liabilities under IAS 19 for closed plans, the current service cost is expected to increase over time as members approach retirement.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 89 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31.
Commitments and contingencies a Commitments At 31 December 2006, the Group had placed contracts for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to 447 million 2005: 108 million, and for the acquisition of intangible assets of 1,082 million 2005: 137 million.
Commitments in relation to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment include 219 million in respect of the construction of a power station at Langage, 99 million in respect of construction of the Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind farms, 72 million in respect of the redevelopment of the Statfjord field, and 42 million in respect of the acquisition of the Braes of Doune wind farm.
Commitments in relation to the acquisition of intangible assets include renewable obligation certificates of 869 million 2005: 103 million, carbon emissions certificates of 122 million 2005: nil and certified emission reduction certificates of 91 million 2005: nil.
At 31 December 2006 the Group had commitments of 44 million 2005: 49 million relating to gas storage contracts in North America, and 21 million 2005: nil relating to contracts with out-source service providers.
Other commitments at 31 December 2006 amount to 52 million 2005: 13 million.
b Decommissioning costs The Group has provided certain guarantees and indemnities to BG Group plc in respect of the decommissioning costs of the Morecambe gas fields.
The Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Hydrocarbon Resources Limited, have agreed to provide security, in respect of such guarantees and indemnities, to BG International Limited, which, as original licence holder for the Morecambe gas fields, will have exposure to decommissioning costs relating to the Morecambe gas fields should liabilities not be fully discharged by the Group.
The security is to be provided when the estimated future net revenue stream from the Morecambe gas fields falls below 150% of the estimated cost of such decommissioning.
The nature of the security may take a number of different forms and will remain in force unless and until the costs of such decommissioning have been irrevocably discharged and the relevant Department of Trade and Industry decommissioning notice in respect of the Morecambe gas fields has been revoked.
c Operating lease commitments At 31 December the total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for each of the following periods were: Other 2006 2005 m m Within one year 80 73 Between one and five years 172 160 After five years 160 192 412 425 Other 2006 2005 m m The total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating sub-leases at 31 December 17 16 Lease and sub-lease payments recognised as an expense in the year were as follows: Minimum lease payments 67 80 i Contingent rents renewables 30 25 Contingent rents other 1 i The Group has entered into long-term arrangements with renewable providers to purchase physical power, renewable obligation certificates and levy exemption certificates from renewable sources.
Payments made under these contracts are contingent on actual production, and therefore the commitment to a minimum lease payment included above is nil.
Payments made for physical power are charged to the Income Statement as incurred and disclosed as contingent rents.
d Contingent liabilities The Group is currently in dispute with Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC on a technical matter concerning intra-group transfer pricing of gas produced within the UK Continental Shelf.
The Group has taken the advice of leading tax counsel, and believes that the risk that HMRC will succeed in its arguments is remote or slight.
The Group has a number of outstanding disputes arising out of its normal activities, for which provisions have been made, where appropriate, in accordance with IAS 37.
None of the provisions are individually significant.
e Guarantees and indemnities The Company has 1,300 million of bilateral credit facilities 2005: 1,000 million.
Hydrocarbon Resources Limited and British Gas Trading Limited have guaranteed, jointly and severally, to pay on demand any sum which the Company does not pay in accordance with the facility agreements.
The Group has given guarantees in connection with the finance lease obligations referred to in note 20.
A fixed collateral payment amounting to 240 million 2005: 245 million is required in the event of Centrica plc failing to retain at least one credit rating which is not on credit watch above the BBB Baa1 level, and further collateral of 240 million 2005: 245 million is required if the credit rating falls further.
90 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 31.
Commitments and contingencies continued Group companies have given guarantees and indemnities, subject to certain limitations, to various counterparties in relation to wholesale energy trading and procurement activities, and to third parties in respect of gas production and energy transportation liabilities.
In connection with their energy trading, transportation and upstream activities, certain Group companies have entered into contracts under which they may be required to prepay or provide credit support or other collateral in the event of a significant deterioration in credit worthiness.
The extent of credit support is contingent upon the balance owing to the third party at the point of deterioration.
Following the closure of the British Gas Energy Centres Limited Energy Centres operations in July 1999, guarantees have been signed on certain former Energy Centres properties as a result of reassignment of leases.
f Other The Groups use of financial instruments is explained in the Directors Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 21 to 23 and in note 33. g Commodity purchase contracts The Group procures gas and electricity through a mixture of production from owned gas fields and power stations and procurement contracts.
Procurement contracts include short-term forward market purchases of gas and electricity at fixed and floating prices.
They also include gas contracts indexed to market prices and long-term gas contracts with non-gas indexation.
Further information about the Groups procurement strategy is contained in note 33 i.
Commodity purchase commitments are estimated, on an undiscounted basis, as follows: 2006 2005 m m Within one year 7,800 8,500 Between one and five years 16,100 16,500 After five years 10,400 10,600 34,300 35,600 The total volume of gas to be taken under certain long-term structured contracts depends on a number of factors, including the actual reserves of gas that are eventually determined to be extractable on an economic basis.
The resulting monetary commitment is based on the minimum quantities of gas that the Group is contracted to pay at estimated future prices.
The estimated commitment to make payments under gas procurement contracts differs in scope and in basis from the principal value of energy derivatives disclosed in note 33.
Only certain procurement and sales contracts are within the scope of IAS 39 and included in note 33.
In addition, the volumes used in calculating principal values are estimated using valuation techniques.
Contractual commitments which are subject to fulfilment of conditions precedent are excluded.
Related party transactions During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: 2006 2005 Purchase of Purchase of Sale of goods and Other Sale of goods and Other goods services transactions goods services transactions m m m m m m Lloyds TSB Bank plc 2 2 Mitchells & Butlers plc 40 Hanson plc 9 Barrow Offshore Wind Limited 8 1 Humber Power Limited to 19 September 2005 3 58 AccuRead Limited to 11 October 2005 28 49 8 3 3 86 2 Balances outstanding with related parties at 31 December were as follows: 2006 2005 Provision for Provision for bad bad or doubtful or doubtful debt debt relating to relating to Amounts owed Amounts owed amounts owed Amounts owed Amounts owed amounts owed from related to related from related from related to related from related parties parties parties parties parties parties m m m m m m Lloyds TSB Bank plc 49 46 Mitchells & Butlers plc 2 Hanson plc 5 Barrow Offshore Wind Limited 23 3 12 1 77 5 58 1 Lloyds TSB Bank plc is a related party of the Group because of its 30% economic interest in GF One Limited, formerly Goldfish Bank Limited a subsidiary of the Group.
Transactions with Lloyds TSB Bank plc relate to a loan facility.
Mitchells & Butlers plc is a related party of the Group because the Chairman of Centrica plc is also Chairman of Mitchells & Butlers plc.
Hanson plc is a related party of the Group because the Chief Executive of Centrica plc is also a non-executive director of Hanson plc.
Both Mitchells & Butlers plc and Hanson plc purchase gas and electricity from the Group for business usage on an arms length basis.
Barrow Offshore Wind Limited is a joint venture of the Group.
Transactions with Barrow Offshore Wind Limited relate to loan facilities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 91 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32.
Related party transactions continued 2006 2005 Remuneration of key management personnel m m Short-term benefits 8 7 Post-employment benefits 5 3 Share-based payments 3 3 16 13 Key management personnel comprise members of the Board and Executive Committee, a total of 13 individuals at 31 December 2006 2005: 15.
A relative of a Board member who served in the year received emoluments of 0.2 million 2005: 0.1 million in respect of their employment by the Group.
Key management personnel and their families purchase gas and electricity from the Group for domestic purposes on an arms length basis.
Financial instruments Exposure to commodity price risk, counterparty credit risk, interest rate risk, currency risk and liquidity risk arises in the normal course of the Groups business.
Derivative financial instruments are entered into to reduce exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Derivative financial instruments are also entered into for trading purposes.
The Group also enters into primary financial instruments to finance the Groups operations in the normal course of business.
A financial instrument is defined in IAS 32 as any contract which gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.
Further detail on the Groups risk management policies is included within the Directors Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 21 to 23. i Risks a Commodity price risk The most significant financial risk facing the Group relates to commodity prices, in particular for gas and electricity.
Commodity price risk arises as a result of contracted or forecast retail sales of gas and electricity not being fully matched by equity production or procurement contracts with equivalent volumes, time periods and pricing.
The risk is primarily that market prices for commodities will move adversely between the time that sales prices are fixed or tariffs are set and the time at which the purchase cost is fixed, thereby potentially reducing expected margins.
The Group monitors exposure to commodity price risk using volumetric limits set as a combination of long-standing target ranges and specific shorter-term targets for both gas and electricity.
The volumetric limits are supported by the use of Value at Risk VaR and Profit at Risk PaR methodologies.
Commodity price risk is managed through a mixture of production from owned gas fields and power stations, energy procurement and energy sales contracts.
This reduces the volume of gas and electricity which remains to be procured at market prices.
Procurement contracts include: X short-term forward market purchases and sales of gas and electricity at fixed prices: X long-term electricity contracts whose prices are indexed to coal prices which provides fuel diversity to electricity supply: X long-term electricity contracts with wind farms at a fixed or variable price: X short and long-term contracts to buy carbon credits: X long-term gas contracts whose prices are determined based on historic or forward quoted gas prices up to 12 months in advance of the period the gas is delivered, thus stabilising procurement and sales prices and eliminating exposure once the price has been determined: X long-term gas contracts with non-gas indexation, which stabilise prices but also result in some exposure to other commodities and indices.
The non-gas indexation in long-term gas contracts includes oil and oil products, coal and general indices such as the Producers Price Index PPI.
The contract prices are determined based on forward quoted prices for the commodities and indices up to 12 months in advance of the period in which the gas is delivered: and X long-term financial swaps up to five years forward based on energy market price indices.
The volume variability in the contract portfolio is actively managed in order to optimise the use of the contracts.
Certain of these procurement and sales contracts constitute derivative financial instruments which are within the scope of IAS 39 whose fair value is recorded in the Financial Statements.
The fair values of these contracts are subject to change resulting from changes in commodity prices, except for contracts which are indexed to the market price of the commodity which is the subject of the contract, and for which the price is not fixed in advance of delivery.
Commodity price risk also arises from proprietary trading activity.
These exposures are subject to volumetric limits on open exposures and to VaR limits.
To manage the commodity price risk associated with gas and electricity purchase requirements the Group has entered into physical and financial gas, electricity and carbon purchase contracts, certain of which it has accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The hedged item is the forecast future purchase requirement to meet customer demand.
The hedging instruments are fixed-price forward purchase contracts.
The net fair value of commodity cash flow hedging instruments was a 484 million liability at 31 December 2006 2005: 481 million asset.
Cash flow hedging has been discontinued for hedges of future oil production where the forecast production was not expected to occur in the anticipated timescale.
Hedge ineffectiveness has arisen on certain cash flow hedges of future electricity sales where unseasonably high temperatures resulted in forecast demand being lower than originally expected.
Commodity contracts are subject to legal and contract risk.
The fair values of field-specific depletion contracts are by their nature also subject to reserves risk and other operational risks associated with gas production.
92 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 33.
Financial instruments continued b Credit risk Counterparty credit risk is the risk that the financial benefits of contracts with a specific counterparty will be lost if a counterparty defaults on its obligations under the contract.
This includes any cash amounts owed to the Group by those counterparties, less any amounts owed to the counterparty by the Group where a legal right of set-off exists and also includes the fair values of contracts with individual counterparties which are recorded in the Financial Statements.
Energy wholesale and trading Counterparty credit exposures are monitored by individual counterparty and by category of credit rating, and are subject to approved limits.
The majority of significant exposures are with A-rated counterparties or better.
A credit risk adjustment is made to the fair values of financial instruments in accordance with the credit rating of the counterparty.
No credit risk adjustment is made to financial instruments under a joint operating agreement where operators are contractually required to fulfil the obligations of any defaulting party.
Downstream businesses Exposure to credit risk arises in the normal course of operations as a result of the potential for a customer defaulting on their payable balance.
In the case of business customers, credit risk is managed by checking a companys credit worthiness and financial strength both before commencing to trade and during the business relationship.
For residential customers, credit worthiness is ascertained normally before commencing to trade by reviewing an appropriate mix of internal and external information.
An ageing of receivables is monitored and used to manage the exposure to credit risk.
Collateral Centrica employs a variety of other methods to mitigate credit risk including margining, various forms of bank and Parent Company Guarantees and Letters of Credit.
In all cases the aim of setting up a credit risk mitigation instrument is to upgrade the credit risk to a better equivalent rating than the stand-alone rating of the counterparty.
At 31 December 2006 Centrica had pledged 61 million of cash collateral 2005: 687 million of which 624 million related to cash collateralised on Letters of Credit provided by banks on borrowings relating to South Morecambe gas production and had received 33 million 2005: 537 million of cash collateral principally under margin calls to cover exposure to mark-to-market positions on derivative contracts.
Most collateral paid or received is interest bearing and free of any restrictions over its use.
Centrica also uses master netting agreements or netting provisions to reduce credit risk and net settles payments with counterparties where master netting agreements are held.
Credit risk exposures With the exception of retail customers, the Group considers that 100% of its credit risk is with counterparties in related energy industries or with financial institutions.
There were no other significant concentrations of credit risk at 31 December 2006 2005: none.
The maximum credit exposure of financial instruments within the scope of IAS 39, without taking account of collateral, is represented by the balance sheet carrying amount for all financial assets.
2006 2005 Year ended 31 December m m Trade and other receivables: UK and Europe 2,536 2,357 North America 805 793 3,341 3,150 Loans 49 46 Available for sale assets 37 45 Cash and cash equivalents 640 1,239 Energy derivatives: i UK and Europe 642 1,910 North America 102 451 744 2,361 Embedded derivatives 5 Interest rate derivatives 2 22 Foreign exchange derivatives 26 7 i At 31 December 2005 291 million related to a single European energy counterparty with a credit rating of A for which cash collateral of 221 million was held.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 93 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33.
Financial instruments continued c Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group suffers financial loss due to changes in the value of an asset or liability or in the value of future cash flows due to movements in interest rates.
Any financial asset or liability on which interest is paid or received will be subject to interest rate risk.
The Groups policy is to actively manage the interest rate risk on long-term recourse borrowings while ensuring that the exposure to fixed interest rates remains within a 30% 70% range.
Interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements are used to manage interest rate risk within the Group.
The net fair value of fair value interest rate hedging instruments was a 12 million liability at 31 December 2006 2005: 3 million asset and the net fair value of cash flow interest rate hedging instruments was a 28 million liability at 31 December 2006 2005: 44 million liability.
Effective interest rate analysis In respect of income-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates at the balance sheet date and the earlier of the periods in which they re-price or mature: Effective Within More than interest rate Total 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Year ended 31 December 2006 % m m m m m Available for sale government bonds 4.5 10 7 12 i Loans 5.4 48 48 Loans fixed 13.5 23 11 4 6 2 i Margining collateral included in other receivables 4.5 61 61 i, ii Cash and cash equivalents 5.1 614 614 Bank loans fixed 3.7 5 5 37 47 iii Effect of interest rate swap on bank loans 1.6 20 6 14 i, ii Bank loans and overdrafts 6.0 30 3 33 i US dollar commercial paper 5.5 100 100 iv Sterling bonds fixed 5.6 251 709 960 iii Effect of interest rate swaps on sterling bonds 0.3 483 125 358 i, v Sterling bonds 5.0 152 152 i, vi Euro floating rate note 3.8 68 68 vii Dual currency loan 5.1 65 65 Finance lease obligations fixed 5.8 18 20 70 326 434 i Finance lease obligations 4.5 374 374 iii Effect of interest rate swap on finance lease obligations 1.8 229 8 39 182 i, ii Margining collateral included within other payables 4.5 33 33 Non-recourse borrowings viii Canadian dollar bonds 4.9 218 218 i These assets liabilities bear interest at a floating rate.
ii Excludes non-interest bearing balances.
iii Effect of interest rate derivative on swapped portion of financial instrument at 31 December 2006. iv Fixed rate sterling bonds are stated at a face value of 965 million.
Included within this balance are sterling bonds with a face value of 250 million that mature in 2029.
The counterparty has an option to redeem these bonds in 2009 and it is expected that the bonds will become repayable on this date.
In the event that the option is not exercised the bond will re-price in March 2009.
The sterling bonds are stated in the Group Balance Sheet net of 9 million of issuance costs, and at fair value where hedged.
v Floating rate sterling bonds are stated at a face value of 150 million.
vi The floating rate note is stated at a face value of 100 million.
vii The dual currency loan has a face value of 15 billion and pays a fixed rate of interest of 4.0% on a notional face value of US$ 129 million.
A swap has been entered into which fixed the repayment amount at 67 million and fixes the interest payments at 5.1% of the sterling principal amount.
viii The bonds have a face value of 219 million and are expected to be repaid between 2008 and 2010 in advance of the maturity dates.
94 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 33.
Financial instruments continued Effective Within More than interest rate Total 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Year ended 31 December 2005 % m m m m m Available for sale government bonds 4.3 14 14 ix Available for sale floating rate note 3.75 5 ix Loans 4.74646 ix, x Margining collateral included in other receivables 4.23939 ix, x Cash and cash equivalents 4.51,0751,075 Bank loans fixed 3.8 63 8 24 28 3 xi Effect of interest rate swap on bank loans 0.4 6 6 ix Bank loans and overdrafts 5.5 63 63 ix, xiv Other bank loans 36.0 637 637 xii Sterling bonds 5.9 422 422 xi Effect of interest rate swaps on sterling bonds 0.4 207 207 ix US dollar commercial paper 4.3 377 377 Finance lease obligations fixed 5.9 451 16 18 65 352 ix Finance lease obligations 4.6 377 377 xi Effect of interest rate swap on finance lease obligations 2.4 240 240 ix Margining collateral included within other payables 4.4 537 537 Non-recourse borrowings xiii Canadian dollar bonds 4.9 250 250 ix These assets liabilities bear interest at a floating rate.
xi Effect of interest rate derivative on swapped portion of financial instrument at 31 December 2005. xii Sterling bonds are stated at a face value of 415 million.
These bonds are stated in the Group Balance Sheet net of 4 million of issuance discount, and at fair value where hedged.
xiii The bonds are expected to be repaid between 2008 and 2010 in advance of the maturity dates.
xiv Other bank loans related to a banks interest in the Centrica Gas Production LP, a limited partnership, which was formed during 2005.
The bank ceased to be a limited partner during 2006 and the arrangement with the bank was brought to an end on 11 August 2006. d Currency risk Currency risk is the risk that the Group suffers financial loss as a result of changes in the value of an asset or liability or in the value of future cash flows due to movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
Through wholly-owned US, Canadian and European subsidiaries, the Group has exposures to US dollars, Canadian dollars and euros.
The Groups policy is to protect the sterling value of overseas investments by entering into net investment hedges.
The Group commercially hedges all significant exposures to foreign currencies arising from operating activities where practicable.
There were no material unhedged financial assets or liabilities at 31 December 2006 other than in the Groups functional currencies, except for 28 million of assets denominated in euros 2005: 92 million of liabilities denominated in euros.
The euro assets and liabilities represent short-term cash flow timing differences and the fair value of gas and electricity commodity contracts.
Net investment hedges Centrica hedges the carrying value of its overseas investments through holding either foreign currency debt or entering into foreign currency derivatives or a mixture of both.
Centrica enters into short-term foreign exchange forwards and medium-term cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge the net investments.
Changes in the sterling value of borrowings or derivatives are used to offset changes in the sterling value of the investments.
The net fair value of net investment hedging instruments at 31 December 2006 was a 115 million liability 2005: 468 million liability, consisting of borrowings of 117 million 2005: 377 million and derivative financial instruments of a 2 million asset 2005: 91 million liability.
The borrowings of 117 million 2005: 377 million comprise 49 million US dollar commercial paper 2005: 377 million and 68 million euro floating rate note 2005: nil.
Cash flow hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge the risk that future foreign currency cash flows vary with changes in foreign exchange rates by fixing the sterling value of a specified foreign currency amount on a specified basis.
The net fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as currency cash flow hedging instruments at 31 December 2006 was a 1 million liability 2005: 8 million liability.
The maturity analysis of amounts included in the cash flow hedging reserve, which includes fair value gains and losses in relation to commodity, interest rate risk and currency hedges is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2006 2005 m m Cash flow hedging reserve Less than one year 282 396 One to two years 138 95 Two to five years 8 43 More than five years 9 2 454 485 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 95 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33.
Financial instruments continued e Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet liabilities.
Cash forecasts identifying the liquidity requirements of the Group are produced frequently.
The cash forecasts are stress-tested for different scenarios and are reviewed regularly to ensure sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a 12-month period.
The Groups policy includes maintaining a minimum level of committed facilities of 800 million less available cash resources and that at least 50% of net debt excluding non-recourse debt over 200 million should be long-term, spread over a range of maturities.
Borrowings At 31 December 2006, the Group had undrawn committed bank borrowing facilities of 1,300 million 2005: 1,000 million.
In addition the Group has access to a number of uncommitted facilities.
The principal debt facilities in use by the Group at 31 December 2006 consisted of a US commercial paper programme of US$2,000 million 2005: US$2,000 million and a Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme of US$3,000 million 2005: US$2,000 million.
At 31 December 2006, US$200 million 2005: US$658 million had been issued under the commercial paper programme and bonds totalling 1,183 million 2005: 415 million were outstanding under the EMTN programme.
The commercial paper issued was held in US dollars to hedge the Groups net investments in North America and other exposures to US dollars within the Group.
The EMTN includes a euro floating rate note which was used to hedge the Groups net investments in Europe.
ii Fair values The fair values of the Groups financial instruments together with the carrying amounts included in the Group Balance Sheet are analysed below.
Balances excluded from the scope of IAS 32 comprise trade and other receivables with a carrying value of 265 million 2005: 296 million, trade and other payables with a carrying value of 329 million 2005: 274 million and provisions of 406 million 2005: 354 million.
Year ended 31 December 2006 2005 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Primary financial assets m m m m Loans and receivables: i, ii Trade and other receivables 3,341 3,341 3,150 3,150 ii, iii Loans 49 49 46 46 iii, iv, v Available for sale assets 37 37 45 45 ii Cash and cash equivalents 640 640 1,239 1,239 Year ended 31 December 2006 2005 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Primary financial liabilities m m m m Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost: i, ii Trade and other payables 3,017 3,017 3,369 3,369 i, ii Provisions 275 275 271 271 Businesses recourse borrowings vi Bank loans and overdrafts 161 159 763 755 Other bank loans: iv Bonds 1,181 1,176 422 425 Loan notes 3 3 ii Commercial paper 100 100 377 377 Obligations under finance leases including power station tolling vii arrangements 808 814 828 856 Businesses non-recourse borrowings iv Canadian dollar bonds 218 227 250 261 iv Units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 265 265 282 282 96 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 33.
Financial instruments continued Year ended 31 December 2006 2005 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Derivative financial instruments m m m m viii Derivative financial instruments held for trading ix Energy derivatives assets 728 728 1,873 1,873 x Energy derivatives liabilities 1,664 1,664 1,342 1,342 xi Embedded derivatives assets 5 5 xii Embedded derivatives liabilities 57 57 Interest rate derivatives assets 2 2 18 18 Interest rate derivatives liabilities 20 20 4 4 Foreign exchange derivatives assets 15 15 44 Foreign exchange derivatives liabilities 1 1 4 4 Net total 210 210 657 657 viii Derivative financial instruments in hedging relationships Energy derivatives assets 16 16 488 488 Energy derivatives liabilities 7 7 500 500 Interest rate derivatives assets 44 Interest rate derivatives liabilities 45 45 40 40 Foreign exchange derivatives assets 11 11 33 Foreign exchange derivatives liabilities 102 102 10 10 Net total 341 341 523 523 i Balances which are outside the scope of IAS 32 have been excluded.
ii Due to the nature and or short maturity of these financial instruments, carrying value approximated fair value.
iii Included within other financial assets in the Group Balance Sheet.
iv Fair value determined with reference to closing market prices.
v Includes 26 million of equity instruments 2005: 26 million.
vi Fair value of bank overdrafts and current loans is equivalent to carrying value due to the short-term maturity.
The fair value of non-current loans is based on future cash flows discounted using discount rates based on the Groups cost of borrowing of 5%.
vii Fair values have been determined based on future cash flows, discounted using discount rates based upon the Groups cost of borrowing of 5%.
viii Included within derivative financial instruments in the Group Balance Sheet.
ix Includes 206 million 2005: 284 million in relation to proprietary trading.
x Includes 198 million 2005: 272 million in relation to proprietary trading.
xi Includes 3 million in relation to energy contracts that have been designated as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss due to the existence of embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows that would otherwise be required by the contract.
xii Relates to energy contracts that have been designated as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss due to the existence of embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows that would otherwise be required by the contract.
The principal value of derivative contracts is shown in the tables below.
Principal values are undiscounted and are derived from the aggregated volumes, estimated using valuation techniques, of those sales and purchase contracts which are within the scope of IAS 39.
The principal value differs in scope and in basis from the estimated commitment to make payments under procurement contracts, disclosed in note 31 g. The principal value provides an indication of the scope of the use of derivatives but does not reflect the risk the Group is exposed to from entering into derivatives.
2006 2005 Principal value of energy derivatives m m Less than one year 20,125 18,150 One to five years 21,355 19,609 More than five years 7,502 7,586 48,982 45,345 2006 2005 m m Principal value of embedded derivatives Less than one year 156 One to five years 893 More than five years 226 1,275 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 97 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33.
Financial instruments continued 2006 2005 Principal value of interest rate derivatives m m Less than one year 213 300 One to five years 367 753 More than five years 664 1,244 1,053 2006 2005 Principal value of foreign exchange derivatives m m Less than one year 1,446 1,188 One to five years 482 530 More than five years 75 2,003 1,718 The major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows: Energy derivatives Commodity price risk is managed through a mixture of production from owned gas fields and power stations, energy procurement and energy sales contracts.
Certain of these procurement and sales contracts constitute derivative financial instruments which are within the scope of IAS 39 and whose fair value is recorded in the Financial Statements.
These fair value balances therefore represent only a part of the Groups overall energy procurement activities.
The criteria for determining treatment of contracts in accordance with IAS 39 are outlined in note 3.
The fair values represent the unrealised gains and losses from holding commodity contracts at the balance sheet date, for delivery in future periods, that are not indexed to the market price of the commodity which is the subject of the contract or for which the price is fixed in advance of delivery.
These fair values are subject to change resulting from changes in commodity prices, and may not be realised.
The methods and assumptions applied in determining fair values are described under UK markets and North American markets below.
The effect of changes in assumptions, and sensitivities to changes in commodity prices, are set out in Effect of changes in assumptions and sensitivities below.
The net fair value of the contracts at 31 December 2006 included within energy derivatives in the derivative financial instruments table on page 97 is a 1,098 million liability 2005: 690 million asset and consists of the following balances: 2006 2005 m m Derivative financial instruments held for trading: Energy derivatives assets 728 1,873 Energy derivatives liabilities 1,342 1,664 Derivative financial instruments in hedging relationships: Energy derivatives assets 16 488 Energy derivatives liabilities 500 7 Net total 1,098 690 The contracts included within energy derivatives are subject to a wide range of detailed specific terms but comprise the following general components: 2006 2005 m m Short-term forward market purchases of gas and electricity: UK and Europe 250 873 North America 236 363 Long-term gas purchase contracts 225 553 Long-term gas sales contracts 389 1,110 Other 2 11 Net total 1,098 690 The aggregated principal value of energy derivatives sales and purchases, and its range of maturities, which provides an indication of the underlying maturity profile, is contained in the table on page 97.
The cash flows arising in relation to these contracts will occur either as physical delivery takes place over the life of the individual contracts, or as a result of the contracts being traded or may not be realised depending on market price movements.
The Groups strategy for entering into energy derivatives, and a summary of the terms and conditions of these contracts, is outlined on pages 92 and 93.
Certain other commodity contracts are outside the scope of IAS 39 and are not fair valued in the Financial Statements.
The disclosures that follow relate only to the fair values of contracts entered into which are within the scope of IAS 39.
98 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 33.
Financial instruments continued UK markets Fair values of commodity contracts are estimated by reference in part to published price quotations in active markets and in part by using valuation techniques.
Management consider the UK markets for gas and electricity to be active for up to two years, with reliable broker quotes and published prices available for this period.
In the active period of the market, financial instruments are valued against forward market prices available at the balance sheet date.
Outside the active period financial instruments are valued using commodity prices derived using assumptions that are based on market expectations and reasonably reflect all factors that market participants would consider in setting a price.
Forecast prices are derived for the commodities which are the subject of the contracts primarily gas and electricity and for commodities whose indices are incorporated in the price calculation formulae of certain long-term contracts.
These include oil and oil products, coal, and general indices such as the Producer Price Index PPI.
Fair values are discounted based on the yields on zero-coupon bonds with differing maturity dates as available in the market, and interpolated to arrive at monthly rates.
The total change in fair value estimated using valuation techniques that was recognised in the Income Statement during the year ended 31 December 2006 amounted to a loss of 117 million 2005: loss of 91 million.
The net fair value of commodity contracts recorded in the Financial Statements determined using valuation techniques at 31 December 2006 is a 262 million liability 2005: 170 million liability.
Assumptions made in determining fair values The most significant assumptions incorporated in the valuation techniques used to value commodity contracts at 31 December 2006 are as follows: X new gas infrastructure capacity will strengthen the direct linkage between UK and continental European gas prices in the medium-term: X a potential oversupply of gas to the UK market will lower prices during this time: X interaction between US and European gas prices will occur in certain periods as cargoes of LNG may be directed to either European or US markets: X European gas prices will retain significant oil linkage in the medium-term although liberalisation of the European gas market should weaken the linkage between oil prices and gas prices in the long-term: X electricity prices are derived from gas prices, carbon prices and the clean spark spread the margin between gas and carbon input prices and electricity sales prices.
Gas-fired power stations are assumed to determine the long-run marginal price of electricity in the UK for the foreseeable future: X oil prices are based on the views held by a number of independent external market experts: X UK coal prices are based on the assumption that market prices will be dominated by the cost of imported coal and that the price of coal shows some linkage to the price of oil: X for contracts with volume optionality it is assumed that counterparties act to maximise the economic value of the contract: and X it is assumed that markets would allow the sale or purchase of each commodity in equivalent volumes to those contracted at the forecast market price.
Effect of changes in assumptions and sensitivities Either of the following alternative assumptions, or a combination of these alternative assumptions, would significantly increase forecast gas and electricity prices both within and outside the active period of the market: X higher oil prices and continued strong linkage between oil and gas prices: and X lower supply to the UK gas market, for instance due to insufficient new infrastructure being put in place, or due to higher worldwide competition for gas supplies.
The impact of changing to either of these reasonably possible alternative assumptions, individually or in combination, would be to decrease the net fair value liabilities for commodity contracts outside the active period of the market at 31 December 2006 by an estimated 43 million 2005: increase to the net fair value liabilities of an estimated 35 million.
Management consider it likely that the occurrence of these alternative assumptions would be accompanied by an increase in gas and electricity prices in the active period of the market.
An average increase of 15p th for gas and 11 MWh for electricity is considered reasonably possible at 31 December 2006.
The impact of such increases in gas and electricity prices in the active period would be to decrease net fair value liabilities at 31 December 2006 by 382 million 2005: an average increase of 20p th for gas and 15 MWh for electricity was considered reasonably possible at 31 December 2005 leading to an increase to the net fair value assets of an estimated 686 million.
In combination the increase in gas and electricity prices in the active and inactive periods would decrease net fair value liabilities at 31 December 2006 by an estimated 425 million 2005: increase to the net fair value assets of an estimated 651 million.
A combination of the following alternative assumptions would significantly decrease forecast gas prices both within and outside the active period of the market: X lower oil prices and continued linkage between oil and gas prices: X a discontinuation of the linkage between oil and gas prices in the medium-term: X liberalisation in the European gas market, if this were to result in increased competition between gas producers: and X a degree of oversupply to the UK gas market resulting from new infrastructure or lower worldwide demand for gas.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 99 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33.
Financial instruments continued The impact of changing to a reasonably possible combination of these alternative assumptions would be to increase the net fair value liabilities for commodity contracts outside the active period of the market at 31 December 2006 by approximately 82 million 2005: decrease to the net fair value liabilities of an estimated 20 million.
Management consider it likely that the occurrence of these alternative assumptions would be accompanied by a decrease in gas prices in the active period of the market.
An average decrease of 13p th for gas and 9 MWh for electricity is considered reasonably possible at 31 December 2006.
The impact of such decreases in gas and electricity prices in the active period would be to increase net fair value liabilities at 31 December 2006 by 349 million 2005: an average decrease of 20p th for gas and 15 MWh for electricity was considered reasonably possible at 31 December 2005 leading to a decrease to the net fair value assets of an estimated 681 million.
In combination the decrease in gas and electricity prices in the active and inactive periods would increase net fair value liabilities at 31 December 2006 by an estimated 431 million 2005: decrease to the net fair value assets of an estimated 661 million.
The impacts disclosed above result from changing the assumptions used for fair valuing commodity contracts to reasonably possible alternative assumptions at the balance sheet date.
These impacts are not necessarily indicative of the changes in fair value that would occur if these events actually take place in the future, as contractual positions change over time.
The fair value impacts only concern those contracts entered into which are within the scope of IAS 39 and should not be construed as a measure of the Groups exposure to cash flow risk resulting from changes in commodity prices.
North American markets Management consider the North American markets for gas and electricity to be active for between one and five years and vary depending on delivery point.
The fair value of financial instruments recorded in the Financial Statements is primarily based on quoted market prices in active markets.
Management consider an average increase in gas prices of 13p th 2005: 16p th and an average increase in electricity prices of 13 MWh 2005: 10 MWh reasonably possible at 31 December 2006.
The impact of such increases in commodity prices would be to decrease net fair value liabilities at 31 December 2006 by 630 million 2005: increase net fair value assets by 777 million.
Management consider an average decrease in gas prices of 9p th 2005: 15p th and an average decrease in electricity prices of 7 MWh 2005: 9 MWh reasonably possible at 31 December 2006.
The impact of such decreases in commodity prices would be to increase net fair value liabilities at 31 December 2006 by 363 million 2005: decrease net fair value assets by 704 million.
Foreign exchange derivatives Fair values have been determined with reference to closing exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Interest rate derivatives Fair values have been determined with reference to closing interest rates at the balance sheet date.
100 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 34.
Fixed fee service contracts Fixed fee service contracts are entered into with home services customers in the UK and North America Central Heating Care, Boiler and Controls Care, Gas Appliance Care, Gas Appliance Check, Plumbing and Drains Care, Kitchen Appliance Care and Home Electrical Care in the UK, and Heating Protection Plus, Cooling Protection Plus and Plumbing and Drains Protection in North America.
These contracts continue until cancelled by either party to the contract.
These plans incorporate both an annual service element and a maintenance element.
Fixed fee service contracts protect purchasers of these contracts against the risk of breakdown of electrical, plumbing, heating, cooling and household appliances, resulting in the transfer of an element of risk from contract holders to Centrica.
Benefits provided to customers vary in accordance with terms and conditions of the contracts entered into, however generally include repair and or replacement of the items affected.
The risk and level of service required within the maintenance element of the contracts is dependent upon the occurrence of uncertain future events, in particular the number of call outs, the cost per call out and the nature of the fault.
Accordingly the timing and amount of future cash outflows related to the contracts is uncertain.
The key terms and conditions that impact future cash flows are as follows: X provision of labour and parts for repairs, dependent on the agreement and associated level of service: X one safety and maintenance inspection in every year of the agreement for Central Heating Care, Boiler and Controls Care, Gas Appliance Care and Gas Appliance Check in the UK, and Heating Protection Plus and Cooling Protection Plus in North America : X one safety and maintenance inspection in every continuous two-year period of the agreement for Home Electrical Care, Kitchen Appliance Care and Plumbing and Drains Care : X no limit to the number of call outs to carry out work included within the selected agreement: and X caps on certain maintenance and repair costs within fixed fee contracts.
Revenue from fixed fee service contracts is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, reflecting the benefits receivable by the customer which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance potentially being required at any point within the contract term.
Cost of sales relates directly to the engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services, the cost of which is accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.
The costs of claims under the fixed fee service contracts will be the costs of the engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services.
These costs are accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.
No further claims costs are accrued.
Weather conditions and the seasonality of maintenance can impact the number of call outs, the cost per call out and the nature of the fault.
Centricas obligations under the terms of its home services fixed fee service contracts are based on the following types of uncertain future events taking place within the contract period: X boiler, radiator, controls, hot water cylinder and pipe work breakdown: X gas fire, water heater, wall heater and gas cooker breakdown: X hot and cold water pipe, overflow, cold tank, toilet siphon and radiator valve breakdown: X washing machine, tumble drier, dishwasher, fridge, freezer, cooker, oven, hob and microwave oven breakdown: X fixed electrical wiring system, fuse box, light switch, wall socket, circuit breaker and transformer breakdown: X ventor motor, circuit board, direct drive motor and flame sensor breakdown: and X evaporator and condenser fan motor breakdown.
Centrica actively manages the risk exposure of these uncertain events by undertaking the following risk mitigation activities: X an initial service visit is performed for central heating care.
If, at the initial visit, faults that cannot be rectified are identified, the fixed fee service contract will be cancelled and no further cover provided: X an annual or bi-annual safety and maintenance inspection is performed to ensure all issues are identified prior to them developing into significant maintenance or breakdown issues: and X caps on certain maintenance and repair work are incorporated into fixed fee service contracts to limit liability in areas considered to be higher risk in terms of prevalence and cost to repair.
The Group considers the adequacy of estimated future cash flows under the contracts to meet expected future costs under the contracts.
Any deficiency is charged immediately to the Income Statement.
Service requests are sensitive to the reliability of appliances as well as the impact of weather conditions.
Each incremental 1% increase in service requests would impact profit and equity by approximately 7 million.
The contracts are neither exposed to any interest rate risk, significant credit risk, nor are there any exposures relating to embedded derivatives.
2006 2005 Amounts relating to fixed fee service contracts m m Total revenue 785 708 Expenses 683 602 Deferred income 37 50 The claims notified during the year were 258 million 2005: 231 million and were exactly matched by expenses related to fixed fee service contracts.
All claims are settled immediately and in full.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 101 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Events after the balance sheet date The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.0 pence per share totalling 293 million for the year ended 31 December 2006.
On 8 February 2007 the Groups subsidiary The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund acquired the water heater rental business of Toronto Hydro Energy Services Inc for consideration of C$41 million 18 million in cash.
Management considers it impracticable to disclose information about the fair value of the net assets acquired since the findings of the valuation exercise are not yet available.
In January 2007 the Group was awarded participation in four exploration licences located in the Norwegian Sea and Northern North Sea.
The Group will have an operated interest in three licences, with non-operatorship in one block.
In addition the Group has been awarded two exploration licences located in the East Irish Sea, adjacent to Centricas Morecambe fields.
Principal undertakings % Group holding Country of in ordinary shares i 31 December 2006 incorporation formation and net assets Principal activity Subsidiary undertakings Accord Energy Limited England 100 Wholesale energy trading Accord Energy Trading Limited England 100 Wholesale energy trading British Gas Services Limited England 100 Servicing and installation of gas heating systems British Gas Trading Limited England 100 Energy supply Centrica America Limited England 100 Holding company Centrica Barry Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Brigg Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Canada Limited Canada 100 Holding company and gas production Centrica Energa SL Spain 100 Energy supply Centrica Energie GmbH Germany 100 Wholesale energy trading Centrica Energy Operations Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Gamma Holdings Limited England 100 Holding company Centrica Holdings Limited England 100 Holding company Centrica KL Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica KPS Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Langage Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Overseas Holdings Limited England 100 Holding company Centrica PB Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Renewable Energy Limited England 100 Renewable energy holding company Centrica Resources Limited England 100 Gas and oil production Centrica Resources Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 Upstream exploration Centrica Resources Norge AS Norway 100 Upstream exploration Centrica RPS Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica SHB Limited formerly Humber Power Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Storage Limited England 100 Gas storage Centrica US Holdings Inc USA100 Holding company Coastal Energy Limited England 85 Clean coal generation DER Development No.
10 Limited Canada 100 Gas production Direct Energy Marketing Inc USA 100 Wholesale energy trading Direct Energy Marketing Limited Canada 100 Energy supply and home services Direct Energy Services LLC USA 100 Energy supply and home services Dyno Holdings Limited England 100 Home services Electricity Direct UK Limited England 100 Energy supply Energy America LLC USA 100 Energy supply GB Gas Holdings Limited England 100 Holding company Glens of Foudland Windfarm Limited England 100 Power generation Hydrocarbon Resources Limited England 100 Gas production Oxxio BV Netherlands 100 Energy supply Residential Services Group Inc USA 100 Holding company Joint ventures Barrow Offshore Wind Limited England 50 Wind farm construction Coots Limited England 55 CO transportation 2 Segebel SA Belgium 50 Holding company 102 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 36.
Principal undertakings continued % Group holding Country of in ordinary shares i 31 December 2006 incorporation formation and net assets Principal activity Partnerships Bastrop Energy Partners LP USA 100 Power generation CPL Retail Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply Direct Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Partnership Canada 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Resources Partnership Canada 100 Gas production Frontera Generation LP USA 100 Power generation Paris Generation LP USA 100 Power generation ii The Centrica Gas Production LP England Gas production WTU Retail Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund the Fund is also consolidated as part of the Group.
The Group has determined that the Fund is a subsidiary due to the substance of the arrangements.
The Fund commenced operating on 17 December 2002.
On 27 April 2006, the 19.9% interest held in the Fund by Direct Energy Marketing Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Centrica plc, was transferred to its wholly-owned subsidiary, DEML Investments Limited.
On 23 June 2006, DEML Investments Limited disposed of its 19.9% interest.
Therefore, at 31 December 2006 Centrica held a nil% interest in the Fund 2005: 19.9%.
Up until 23 June 2006, DEML Investments Limited held 100% of the class B exchangeable units in Waterheater Holding Limited Partnership, a subsidiary of the Fund.
Class B exchangeable units were exchangeable into units of the Fund and attracted comparable voting rights to units of the Fund.
Units of the Fund are traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
i All principal undertakings are indirectly held by the Company, except for Centrica Holdings Limited, which is a direct subsidiary undertaking.
The information is only given for those subsidiaries which in the Directors opinion principally affect the figures shown in the Financial Statements.
ii The Centrica Gas Production LP is a qualifying partnership and is included on a consolidated basis within the Financial Statements of the Group.
Hydrocarbon Resources Limited, a Centrica Group company, exercises management of the partnership as the general partner.
Its registered office is Millstream, Maidenhead Road, Windsor SL4 5GD.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 103 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Centrica plc Independent Auditors report to the members of Centrica plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the parent Company Financial Statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 which Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Company Financial Statements have been prepared under of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited Company Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration the information in the Remuneration Report that is described Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the as having been audited.
significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the We have reported separately on the Group Financial preparation of the parent Company Financial Statements, and of Statements of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2006. whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, information and explanations which we considered necessary the Remuneration Report and the parent Company Financial in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Statements in accordance with applicable law and United assurance that the parent Company Financial Statements and Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other of Directors Responsibilities.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company Financial overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be Company Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Report to be audited.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for Opinion and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance In our opinion: with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other X the parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come at 31 December 2006: save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
X the parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and whether the parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly X the information given in the Directors Report is consistent prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We with the parent Company Financial Statements.
also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report comprising the Directors Report Business Review and the Directors Report Governance is consistent with the parent Company Financial Statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company  LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received London all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or 22 February 2007 if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, the Gas and Liquid Reserves, Five Year Record and Shareholder Information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
104 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
