SUMMARY FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT STATEMENTS AUDITORS STATEMENT These Summary Financial Statements are AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF BASIS OF OPINION a summary of information in the Groups ASTRAZENECA PLC, PURSUANT TO SECTION 251 We conducted our work in accordance with Financial Statements, Directors Report and OF THE COMPANIES ACT 1985.
Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on Directors Remuneration Report and do not We have examined the Summary Financial the summary financial statement issued by contain suf cient information to allow for as Statements set out on pages 42 to 46.
This the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on full an understanding of the results and statement is made solely to the Companys the Groups full annual Financial Statements state of affairs of the Group as would be members, as a body, in accordance with describes the basis of our audit opinion on provided by the full Group Financial section 251 of the Companies Act 1985. those Financial Statements and the Directors Statements, Directors Report and Directors Our work has been undertaken so that we Remuneration Report.
Shareholders requiring might state to the Companys members those more detailed information have the right to matters we are required to state to them OPINION obtain, free of charge, a copy of the Groups in such a statement and for no other purpose.
In our opinion the Summary Financial last full Annual Report and Form 20-F To the fullest extent permitted by law, we Statements are consistent with the full annual Information, available from the Secretary do not accept or assume responsibility to Financial Statements, the Directors Report at the registered of ce of the Company.
anyone other than the Company and the and the Directors Remuneration Report Companys members as a body, for our of AstraZeneca PLC for the year ended The Summary Financial Statements on work, for this statement, or for the opinions 31 December 2006 and comply with the pages 42 to 46 were approved by the Board we have formed.
applicable requirements of section 251 of of Directors on 1 February 2007 and were the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations signed on its behalf by: RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS made thereunder.
AND AUDITORS DAVID R BRENNAN JONATHAN SYMONDS The Directors are responsible for preparing 1 February 2007 DIRECTOR DIRECTOR the Annual Review 2006 in accordance with applicable law.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Our responsibility is to report to you our Registered Auditor opinion on the consistency of the Summary 8 Salisbury Square Financial Statements within the Annual Review London EC4Y 8BB 2006 with the full annual Financial Statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review 2006 and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statements.
