96 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing In preparing each of the Group and Company The Directors are responsible for keeping the Annual Report and Form 20-F Information Financial Statements, the Directors are proper accounting records that disclose with and the Group and Company Financial required to: reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Statements, in accordance with applicable position of the Company and enable them to law and regulations.
Select suitable accounting policies and ensure that its financial statements comply with then apply them consistently.
They have general UK company law requires the Directors to responsibility for taking such steps as are prepare Group and Company Financial Make judgements and estimates that are reasonably open to them to safeguard the Statements for each financial year.
Under that reasonable and prudent.
assets of the Group and the Company and to law the Directors are required to prepare the prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Group Financial Statements in accordance For the Group Financial Statements, with IFRS as adopted by the European Union state whether they have been prepared Under applicable law and regulations, the EU and applicable law and have elected to in accordance with IFRS as adopted by Directors are also responsible for preparing prepare the Company Financial Statements in the EU.
a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration accordance with UK Accounting Standards Report and Corporate Governance Statement and applicable law.
The Directors have also For the Company Financial Statements, that comply with that law and those regulations.
presented additional information under US state whether applicable UK Accounting requirements.
Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed The Group Financial Statements are required and explained in the Company by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to Financial Statements.
present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Prepare the financial statements on the Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial going concern basis unless it is inappropriate statements that references in the relevant part to presume that the Group and the Company of that Act to financial statements giving a true will continue in business.
and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR, AND REPORT ON, INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The Directors are responsible for establishing are subject to the risks that controls may KPMG Audit Plc, an independent registered and maintaining adequate internal control become inadequate because of changes in public accounting firm, has audited the over financial reporting.
AstraZenecas conditions or that the degree of compliance Directors assessment of the internal control internal control over financial reporting is with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
over financial reporting and, as explained designed to provide reasonable assurance on page 97, has issued an unqualified over the reliability of financial reporting and The Directors assessed the effectiveness of report thereon.
the preparation of consolidated financial AstraZenecas internal control over financial statements in accordance with International reporting as at 31 December 2006 based on Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the criteria set forth by the Committee of the EU and generally accepted accounting Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway principles in the United States.
Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based on this assessment, the Due to its inherent limitations, internal control Directors believe that, as at 31 December over financial reporting may not prevent or 2006, the internal control over financial detect misstatements.
Projections of any reporting is effective based on those criteria.
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
