114 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Groups principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank overdrafts, short term borrowings, loans, current and non-current investments, cash and short term deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to manage the Groups funding and liquidity requirements.
The Group has other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are those of interest rate, liquidity, foreign currency and credit.
Each of these are managed in accordance with Board-approved policies.
These policies are set out below.
The Group uses foreign currency forwards and options, interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements for the purpose of hedging its foreign currency and interest rate risks.
All hedging referred to is operational hedging and not hedging from an accounting perspective: hedge accounting as defined in IAS 39 has not been adopted.
Key controls, applied to transactions in derivative financial instruments, are to use only instruments where good market liquidity exists, to revalue all financial instruments regularly using current market rates and to sell options only to offset previously purchased options.
Interest rate risk The Groups policy is to match the interest rate exposure on the Groups gross debt balance with that arising on the surplus cash position using interest rate swaps.
The net effect of this is to exchange the fixed rate interest paid on the two outstanding bonds fair value of $1,087m into floating rate interest referenced to six month US dollar LIBOR.
The majority of the Groups cash balance is invested in short dated commercial paper or held with third party fund managers who return a target yield referenced to seven day US dollar LIBID.
In addition to interest rate swaps, the Group uses forward rate agreements to manage any short term timing difference between the swapped debt interest expense and cash interest income.
Liquidity risk In addition to cash balances comprising fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts and short term borrowings of $7,526m, the Group has an SEC-registered shelf debt programme of $4bn, of which $750m has been utilised through a loan note maturing in 2014.
The Board reviews the Groups ongoing liquidity risks annually as part of the strategic planning process.
Foreign currency risk Translational exposure The US dollar is the Groups most significant currency.
As a consequence, the Group results are presented in US dollars and exposures are managed against US dollars accordingly.
Approximately 53% of Group external sales in 2006 were denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, while a significant proportion of manufacturing and R&D costs were denominated in sterling and Swedish krona.
In addition, surplus cash generated by business units is converted to, and held centrally in US dollars.
As a result, operating profit and total cash flow in US dollars will be affected by movements in exchange rates.
This currency exposure is managed centrally based on forecast cash flows for the currencies of Swedish krona, sterling, euro, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Japanese yen.
The impact of movements in exchange rates is mitigated significantly by the correlations which exist between the major currencies to which the Group is exposed and the US dollar, and accordingly we will hedge only if there is a significant change or anticipated change in our risk position.
Strict monitoring of currency exposures and correlations is undertaken on a regular basis and hedging is subject to pre-execution approval.
Transactional exposure The transaction exposures that arise from non-local currency sales and purchases by subsidiaries are, where practicable, fully hedged using forward foreign exchange contracts.
It is our policy not to engage in any speculative transactions nor to hedge currency translation exposures arising from the consolidation of nonUS dollar subsidiaries.
Credit risk Exposure to financial counterparty credit risk is controlled by the treasury team centrally in establishing and monitoring counterparty limits.
Centrally managed funds are invested entirely with counterparties whose credit rating is A or better.
External fund managers who manage $5,033m of the Groups cash are rated AAA by Standard & Poors.
There were no other significant concentrations of credit risk at the balance sheet date.
All financial instruments are transacted with commercial banks, in line with standard market practice and are not backed with cash collateral.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise.
The Group is exposed to customers ranging from government backed agencies and large private wholesalers to privately owned pharmacies, and the underlying local economic and sovereign risks vary throughout the world.
Where appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise risks by the use of trade finance instruments such as letters of credit and insurance.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments recorded in the balance sheet.
