179 GLOSSARY The following abbreviations and expressions have Cognitive disorders The class of disorders High-throughput screening The process of the following meanings when used in this report: consisting of significant impairment of cognition using automated tests to search quickly through ACE Inhibitor  enzyme or memory that represents a marked deterioration large numbers of substances for desired binding blocks the production of a hormone called from a previous level of functioning.
Angiotensin II narrows blood vessels CR Corporate Responsibility.
Hormone A chemical signal carried in the blood.
and thereby raises blood pressure.
Corticosteroid Any of the steroid hormones made HKAPI Hong Kong Association of the ACS Acute Coronary Syndrome, an umbrella by the cortex outer layer of the adrenal gland.
term used to cover any group of clinical symptoms CRC Colo-rectal cancer.
compatible with acute myocardial ischemia.
Crohns disease A chronic inflammatory disorder IMS Health Inc.
Provider of pharmaceutical Adjuvant Assisting in the prevention, improvement of the bowels.
Directors The Directors of the Company.
ADP Adenosine diphosphate attaches to receptors Diabetes A metabolic disorder characterised by Ischaemic heart disease A chronic disease on the surface of platelets to form blood clots.
hyperglycaemia high glucose blood sugar, among caused by insufficient blood supply to the heart.
Adverse reaction An unwanted, negative other signs, or a variable disorder of carbohydrate Leukotriene receptor antagonist New type of consequence associated with the use of a medicine.
metabolism usually characterised by inadequate asthma medication.
They are non-steroidal Agonist A substance capable of binding to secretion or utilisation of insulin.
medications, which are taken long term and have been a molecular target to initiate or enhance Diuretic A drug that causes the increased passing shown to reduce reliever use and may also allow the a physiological reaction.
asthmatic to reduce high doses of inhaled steroids.
Anaesthesia The total or partial loss of sensation, Dopamine partial agonists Mimic the effects Line extension A new formulation, indication or especially in relation to pain.
of dopamine in the brain by stimulating dopamine presentation of a product that is already approved.
Analgesia The inability to feel pain.
Lipid Another word for fat.
Lipids are one of the Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA Double-blind study A clinical study in which neither main constituents of plant and animal cells.
A marketing approval application for a generic drug the subject, nor the investigator nor the research Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol LDL-C submitted to the US Food and Drug Administration.
team interacting with the subject or data during the LDL is the major carrier of cholesterol in the blood, Antagonist A substance capable of binding to trial knows what treatment a subject is receiving.
sometimes referred to as bad cholesterol.
a molecular target to neutralise or counteract a Drug metabolism The biochemical modification Luteinising hormone-releasing hormone LHRH physiological reaction.
or degradation of drugs, usually through specialised A naturally occurring hormone that controls sex Anti-androgen A drug that blocks the cellular enzymatic systems.
hormones in both men and women.
uptake of testosterone by the prostate gland and Dyslipidaemia A condition marked by abnormal LHRH agonist A compound that is similar to LHRH used in the treatment of prostate cancer.
concentrations of lipids or lipoproteins in the blood.
in structure and is able to act like it.
Anti-psychotic drug For the treatment of EEA European Economic Area.
Marketing Authorisation Application MAA the unrealistic ideas, delusions false beliefs and Efficacy The outcomes measured in Phase III An application for authorisation to place medicinal hallucinations false perceptions that can appear clinical trials that indicate that the test drug has products on the market.
This is a specific term for during depression or mania.
Aromatase inhibitor A drug that inhibits the enzyme Epidermal Growth Factor EGF receptor A protein Medicaid A US health insurance programme aromatase, which is involved in the production of the found on the surface of some cells and to which for individuals and families with low incomes and female sex hormone, oestrogen.
epidermal growth factor binds, causing the cells resources.
It is jointly funded by the states and AstraZeneca or AstraZeneca Group AstraZeneca to divide.
It is found at abnormally high levels on the federal government, and is managed by the states.
surface of many types of cancer cells, so these cells Medicare A US health insurance programme for Atherosclerosis Disease of the arteries linked may divide excessively in the presence of epidermal US citizens aged 65 or older, US citizens under age to the build-up of lipids fats in the walls and the growth factor.
65 with certain disabilities, and US citizens of all formation of atheromatous plaque, which contracts EFPIA European Federation for Pharmaceutical ages with permanent kidney failure requiring dialysis the lumen of these vessels.
Recently, Medicare began Atrial fibrillation AF Abnormal irregular heart EMEA The European Medicines Agency.
offering prescription drug coverage under Part D rhythm with chaotic generation of electrical signals Excipient An inactive substance that serves as the of the Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit.
vehicle or medium for a drug or other active substance.
Metabolic syndrome A combination of medical Atypical anti-psychotic drugs Second generation Food and Drug Administration FDA Part of the disorders that increase ones risk for cardiovascular drugs to treat psychosis with reduced likelihood to US Department of Health and Human Services Agency disease and diabetes.
responsible for development, approval, manufacture, MHLW Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour Biomarker A characteristic that is objectively sale and use of all drugs, biologics, vaccines and and Welfare.
measured and evaluated as an indicator of medical devices in the US.
Monoclonal antibody An antibody derived from normal biological processes, pathogenic First-line therapy Treatment given to a newly a single clone of cells: all antibodies derived from such processes, or pharmacological responses to diagnosed patient, who has therefore not yet a group of cells have the same sequence of DNA.
Monotherapy Treatment where only one agent is Biopharmaceuticals Biologics A new class First time in man The first time that an experimental given.
of systemic therapies that contain proteins usually compound is administered to a human.
It implies that Myocardial infarction MI A heart attack.
produced naturally by living organisms in response the compound has passed ethical review bodies New Chemical Entity NCE A new, to disease, for example antibodies, as opposed to and passed formal regulatory toxicology studies.
traditional pharmaceutical drugs that are made up Gastrointestinal GI Relating to the stomach The term is used to differentiate from line extensions of non-living chemicals.
Bipolar disorder Any of several mood disorders Generic Drugs that are copies of brand-name NCI US National Cancer Institute.
characterised usually by alternating episodes of drugs and have regulatory approval.
New Drug Application NDA An application to depression and mania or by episodes of depression Gastro-oesophageal reflux disease GERD the FDA for approval to market a drug product alternating with mild non-psychotic excitement.
A recurrent condition where gastric juices, containing in the US.
Bronchodilator A drug that causes the widening acid, travel back from the stomach into the oesophagus.
Neuroscience Sciences that deal with the structure of the bronchi major air passages of the lungs.
Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
or function of the nervous system and brain.
Cardiovascular CV Relating to the heart and Head-to-head study A clinical trial in which two Normotensive Indicating a normal arterial blood blood vessels.
different medicines are directly compared with each pressure.
CAT Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc.
other with respect to their effect on a marker of the NSAID Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.
Candidate Drug CD A drug to be taken into clinical disease or a specific event associated with the NSCLC Non-small cell lung cancer.
For drugs under development, this is often OA Osteoarthritis.
CEE Central and Eastern Europe.
a comparison with a marketed drug that is seen to Oncology The study of diseases that cause cancer.
A condition in be the gold standard.
Odontology A science dealing with the teeth, their which the hearts function as a pump to circulate Hydrofluoroalkanes HFAs A new propellant for structure and development, and their diseases.
blood throughout the body is inadequate to meet metered-dose inhalers that are more environmentally Outcomes study A large clinical trial in which the the bodys needs and leads to a poor blood supply, friendly than the current CFC-based inhalers.
effect of a drug in preventing or delaying a specific which may cause the bodys organ systems to fail.
High-density lipoprotein cholesterol HDL-C and important medical event related to that disease Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease COPD HDL carries cholesterol in the blood, sometimes area eg the occurrence of a heart attack is Any disorder that persistently obstructs bronchial referred to as good cholesterol.
measured, rather than the effect on a marker of the airflow, eg bronchitis.
disease eg blood levels of certain enzymes.
180 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 GLOSSARY CONTINUED Over the counter OTC A term used for medicines Primary care The medical care the patient receives FINANCIAL TERMS that can be purchased without a prescription.
upon first contact with the healthcare system, before Palliative Treatment that has no curative intent referral elsewhere within the system.
ADR American Depositary Receipt evidencing title but is given to maintain quality of life and to relieve Prolactin The hormone that stimulates milk to an ADS.
ADS American Depositary Share representing one Parenteral Administered by any way other than Proof of concept Proof of concept provides underlying Ordinary Share.
clinical confirmation that an investigational product CER Constant Exchange Rates.
Phage The abbreviation for bacteriophage, a virus possesses a desired pharmacological effect in patients Cost growth rates Percentage growth of a particular that infects bacteria.
with the disease of interest.
This can be achieved cost category over the comparable cost category for Pharmacology The study of how drugs affect after a positive placebo-controlled study or dosethe previous year.
response study using a validated surrogate variable Depositary JPMorgan Chase Bank, as depositary Pharmacogenomics A biotechnological science or the final clinical outcome variable.
Proof of concept under the deposit agreement pursuant to which the that combines the techniques of medicine, also includes establishing a limited dose range to be ADRs are issued.
pharmacology and genomics and is concerned used in the subsequent confirmatory studies.
Earnings per Share EPS Profit for the year after with developing drug therapies to compensate for Proof of principle Proof of principle is achieved tax and minority interests, divided by the weighted genetic differences in patients which cause varied when an intended pharmacological effect results average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during responses to a single therapeutic regimen.
in an expected change in a relevant biomarker in the year.
Pharmacokinetics The study of what the body a dose range, which does not cause any major Exceptional items Significantly large items that does to a drug.
Proof of principle therefore provides are distinct in nature from items normally occurring Phase I The phase of clinical study where the first measurable evidence that an investigational during ordinary business activities.
researchers test a new drug or treatment in a product might work in humans.
Proof of principle is Finance income and expense Includes interest small group 20-80 of people for the first time to normally demonstrated in a limited number of subjects earned and payable, and similar items.
evaluate its safety, determine a safe dosage range, with the disease of interest or in healthy volunteers Free cash flow Represents net cash flows before and identify side effects.
financing activities, and is calculated as: net cash Phase II This phase of clinical study includes the Prophylaxis or Prophylactic therapy A therapy inflow before financing activities, adjusted for controlled clinical activities conducted to evaluate the or measure used to prevent disease.
acquisitions of businesses, movements in short term effectiveness of the drug for a particular indication or RA Rheumatoid arthritis.
investments and fixed deposits and disposal of indications in patients with the disease or condition RAG Risk Advisory Group.
under study and to determine the common short-term R&D Research and Development.
Gross margin The margin as a percentage by which side effects and risks associated with the drug.
Phase II Respiratory Relating to or affecting breathing or sales exceed cost of sales, calculated by dividing the studies are typically conducted in a relatively small the organs used to breathe.
difference between the two by the sales figure.
number of patients usually no more than several RET-kinase A receptor-tyrosine kinase which IAS International Accounting Standards.
is normally involved in maturation of a variety of IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Phase III This phase of clinical study is performed tissues, including the nervous system and kidney.
after preliminary evidence suggesting effectiveness It is sometimes mutated and has an abnormal Minority interests Share of profits that belong of the drug has been obtained and is intended to function in certain types of thyroid cancer.
to non-AstraZeneca shareholders in partiallygather additional information about effectiveness Ribosome A large complex molecule that owned subsidiaries.
and safety that is needed to evaluate the overall synthesises protein.
NYSE New York Stock Exchange.
benefit risk profile of the drug and to provide an RoW Rest of world.
Operating costs Distribution costs: Research adequate basis for physician labelling.
Phase III studies Qui tam action in the US An action brought and Development R&D costs: and Selling, General usually include between several hundred and several under a statute that allows a private person to sue for and Administrative SG&A costs.
a penalty, part of which the government or some Operating profit Sales, less cost of sales, less Phase IV Post-marketing studies to delineate specified public institution will receive.
operating costs, plus operating income.
additional information about the drugs risks, Second-line therapy Treatment administered after Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of $0.25 each benefits and optimal use, including those that may the failure of, or in addition to, first-line therapy.
in the capital of the Company.
be requested by regulatory authorities in conjunction SEK, kronor, krona References to Swedish currency.
Profit before tax Operating profit, plus with marketing approval.
Sepsis A life-threatening condition resulting from finance income, less finance expense.
PhRMA Pharmaceutical Research and uncontrolled severe infections.
Manufacturers of America, the US pharmaceutical Senior Executive Team SET a cross-functional, TSR Total Shareholder Returns.
cross-territorial group, established and led by the Placebo In clinical trials, an inert substance identical Chief Executive Officer.
in appearance to the substance being tested, also SHE Safety, Health and the Environment.
SCLC Small cell lung cancer.
Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency Specialist care The medical care the patient PMDA Japanese regulatory authority, part of receives after being referred within the system.
Statin A class of drugs that alter cholesterol levels Post-marketing surveillance PMS The systematic in the blood.
detection and evaluation of adverse reactions occurring Sterling, GBP, pence or p References to in association with pharmaceutical products under UK currency.
customary conditions of use in ordinary clinical practice.
Thrombosis The formation of blood clots at sites Poly-ADP-ribose polymerase PARP An enzyme where they are not required to prevent blood loss.
critical to the repair of damaged cells and maintenance Target Product Profile TPP Statement of the of cellular energy.
essential attributes of a clinically and commercially Positron Emission Tomography PET A highly successful product, which can form the basis for specialised imaging technique that uses short-lived commercial evaluation and guide Discovery and radioactive substances to produce three-dimensional Development activities.
coloured images of those substances functioning Triglycerides The major form of fat that comes within the body.
These images are called PET scans.
from the food we eat as well as from being produced Proton Pump Inhibitor PPI A medicine that by the body.
reduces the production of acid in the stomach.
UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Pre-clinical PC studies Studies conducted Northern Ireland.
before a drug is tested in human subjects, and which US dollar, US$, USD or $ References to support and help establish boundaries for safe use of US currency.
the drug in subsequent Phase I studies.
US United States of America.
World Health Organization WHO The United Nations specialised agency for health.
Zollinger Ellison Syndrome A rare gastric acid disorder.
Trade marks Statements of competitive position Statements of growth rates, sales and market data Trade marks of the AstraZeneca group of Except as otherwise stated, market information in Except as otherwise stated, growth rates and sales companies appear throughout this document in italics.
this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information in this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information are AstraZeneca, the AstraZeneca logotype and the regarding the position of our business or products given at constant exchange rates CER to show AstraZeneca symbol are all trade marks of the relative to its or their competition is based upon underlying performance by excluding the effects of AstraZeneca group of companies.
Trade marks of published statistical data for the 12 months ended exchange rate movements.
Market data are given in companies other than AstraZeneca appear with a 30 September 2006, obtained from IMS Health, actual US dollars.
or sign and include: Abraxane, a registered trade a leading supplier of statistical data to the mark of Abraxis BioScience, Inc. : Avastin, a trade pharmaceutical industry.
Except as otherwise Statements of dates mark of Genentech, Inc. : Cubicin, a trade mark of stated, these market share and industry data from Except as otherwise stated, references to days Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. : CytoFab, a trade IMS Health have been derived by comparing our and or months in this Annual Report and Form 20-F mark of Protherics, Inc. : Herceptin, a trade mark sales revenue to competitors and total market sales Information are references to days and or months of Genentech, Inc. : Humira, a trade mark of Abbott revenues for that period.
For the purposes of this in 2006.
Laboratories, Inc. : Prinivil, a trade mark of Merck & Annual Report and Form 20-F Information, Co. Inc. : Taxotere, a trade mark of Aventis Pharma references to the world pharmaceutical market or AstraZeneca websites S. A. : TriCor, a trade mark of Fournier Industrie et similar phrases are to 52 countries contained in IMS Information on or accessible through our Sant and Zocor, a trade mark of Merck & Co. Inc. Healths MIDAS Quantum database, which amount websites, including astrazeneca.
com, to approximately 95% in value of the countries .
com, Use of terms audited by IMS Health.
com and In this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information, cambridgeantibody.
com, does not form part unless the context otherwise requires, AstraZeneca, of this document.
the Group, the Company, we, us and our refer to AstraZeneca PLC and its consolidated entities.
CONTACT INFORMATION REGISTERED OFFICE AND CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS ADDRESS AstraZeneca PLC 15 Stanhope Gate London W1K 1LN UK Tel: 44 0 20 7304 5000 Fax: 44 0 20 7304 5151 INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACTS UK: as above or e-mail IR@astrazeneca.
com Sweden: AstraZeneca AB SE-151 85 Sdertlje Sweden Tel: 46 0 8 553 260 00 Fax: 46 0 8 553 290 00 or e-mail IR@astrazeneca.
com US: Investor Relations AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP 1800 Concord Pike PO Box 15438 Wilmington fide 19850-5438 US Tel: 1 302 886 3000 Fax: 1 302 886 2972 REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER OFFICE Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA UK Tel freephone in the UK : 0800 389 1580 Tel outside the UK : 44 121 415 7033 SWEDISH SECURITIES REGISTRATION CENTRE VPC AB PO Box 7822 SE-103 97 Stockholm Sweden Tel: 46 0 8 402 9000 US DEPOSITARY JPMorgan Chase Bank JPMorgan Service Center PO Box 3408 South Hackensack NJ 07606-3408 US The paper used in this report is made using pulp from sawmill residues, forest thinnings and wood from PEFC Tel toll free in the US : 888 697 8018 certi ed sustainable forests.
All mill broke is recycled and Tel outside the US : 1 201 680 6630 accounts for up to 25% of the total bre content.
Pulps are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and the manufacturing mill holds ISO 14001 and EMAS environmental management accreditations.
Designed by Addison Corporate Marketing Ltd. ASTRAZENECA.
