FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 101 ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING AND PREPARATION Revenue Prior to 1 January 2003, goodwill was OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION Sales exclude inter-company sales and amortised over its estimated useful life: such The consolidated financial statements have value-added taxes and represent net invoice amortisation ceased on 31 December 2002. been prepared under the historical cost value less estimated rebates, returns and convention, modified to include revaluation settlement discounts.
Sales are recognised The Groups policy up to and including 1997 to fair value of certain financial instruments when the significant risks and rewards of was to eliminate goodwill arising upon as described below, in accordance with ownership have been transferred to a third acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS 1 the Companies Act 1985 and International party.
No revenue is recognised when there First-time Adoption of International Financial Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as are significant uncertainties regarding the Reporting Standards and IFRS 3 Business adopted by the European Union adopted consideration to be received or the costs Combinations, such goodwill will remain IFRS in response to the IAS regulation associated with the transaction.
Research and development Employee benefits Where there are significant differences to Research expenditure is recognised in The Group accounts for pensions and other US GAAP these have been described in the the income statement in the year in which it employee benefits principally healthcare under US GAAP section on pages149 to156.
In respect of defined benefit plans, obligations are measured The Company has elected to prepare the Internal development expenditure is recognised at discounted present value whilst plan assets Company Financial Statements in accordance in the income statement in the year in which are measured at fair value.
The operating and with UK Accounting Standards.
These are it is incurred unless it meets the recognition financing costs of such plans are recognised presented on pages158 to 162 and the criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Regulatory separately in the income statement: current accounting policies in respect of Company and other uncertainties generally mean that service costs are spread systematically over information are set out on page159.
such criteria are not met.
Where, however, the lives of employees and financing costs the recognition criteria are met, intangible are recognised in full in the periods in which In preparing their individual financial statements, assets are capitalised and amortised on a they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are the accounting policies of some overseas straight-line basis over their useful economic recognised immediately in the statement of subsidiaries and associated undertakings do lives from product launch.
Payments to recognised income and expense.
not conform with adopted IFRSs.
Therefore, in-licence products and compounds from where appropriate, adjustments are made external third parties, generally taking the Where the calculation results in a benefit to in order to present the Group Financial form of up-front payments and milestones, the Group, the recognised asset is limited to Statements on a consistent basis.
are capitalised and amortised, generally the present value of any future refunds from on a straight-line basis, over their useful the plan or reductions in future contributions The preparation of the Financial Statements in economic lives from product launch.
conformity with generally accepted accounting this policy, it is not possible to determine principles requires management to make precise economic lives for individual classes Payments to defined contribution schemes estimates and assumptions that affect the of intangible.
However, lives range from are recognised in the income statement as reported amounts of assets and liabilities at three years to twenty years.
the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses Intangible assets relating to products in Taxation during the reporting period.
Actual results development both internally generated The current tax payable is based on taxable could differ from those estimates.
and externally acquired are subject to profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from impairment testing at each balance sheet profit as reported in the income statement AstraZenecas management considers the date.
All intangible assets are tested for because it excludes items that are never following to be the most important accounting impairment when there are indications that taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for policies in the context of the Groups operations.
the carrying value may not be recoverable.
current tax is calculated using tax rates that Any impairment losses are recognised have been enacted or substantively enacted In applying these accounting policies immediately in the income statement.
by the balance sheet date.
management makes certain judgements and estimations.
Judgements include classification Business combinations and goodwill Deferred tax is provided using the balance of transactions between the income statement On the acquisition of a business, fair values sheet liability method, providing for temporary and balance sheet, whilst estimations focus are attributed to the identifiable assets and differences between the carrying amounts of on areas such as carrying values and liabilities and contingent liabilities unless the assets and liabilities for financial reporting estimated lives.
fair value cannot be measured reliably in which purposes and the amounts used for taxation case the value is subsumed into goodwill.
Deferred tax assets are recognised The accounting policy descriptions set out Where fair values of acquired contingent to the extent that it is probable that taxable the areas where judgement needs exercising, liabilities cannot be measured reliably, the profit will be available against which the asset the most significant of which are revenue assumed contingent liability is not recognised can be utilised.
This requires judgements to recognition, research and development, but is disclosed in the same manner as other be made in respect of the availability of future goodwill and intangible assets, provisions for contingent liabilities.
contingent liabilities, post-retirement benefits, taxation and share-based compensation.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised and subject to an impairment review, both in respect of temporary differences associated annually and when there is an indication that with investments in subsidiaries, branches the carrying value may not be recoverable.
and joint ventures where the Group is able to 102 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED control the timing of reversal of the temporary Borrowing costs Inventories differences and it is probable that the Borrowing costs are recognised in the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost temporary differences will not reverse in the income statement as incurred.
The first in, first out foreseeable future.
or an average method of valuation is used.
Leases For finished goods and work in progress, Accruals for tax contingencies require Assets held under finance leases are capitalised cost includes directly attributable costs management to make judgements and and included in property, plant and equipment and certain overhead expenses including estimates of ultimate exposures in relation to at fair value.
Each asset is depreciated over depreciation.
Selling expenses and certain tax audit issues.
Tax benefits are not recognised the shorter of the lease term or its useful life.
other overhead expenses principally unless the tax positions will probably be The obligations related to finance leases, net central administration costs are excluded.
Once considered to be probable, of finance charges in respect of future periods, Net realisable value is determined as estimated management reviews each material tax are included, as appropriate, under current selling price less all estimated costs of benefit to assess whether a provision should liabilities or non-current liabilities.
completion and costs to be incurred in be taken against full recognition of that benefit selling and distribution.
on the basis of potential settlement through The interest element of the rental obligation negotiation and or litigation.
All provisions are is allocated to accounting periods during the Write downs of inventory occur regularly in the included in creditors due within one year.
Any lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest general course of business and are included recorded exposure to interest on tax liabilities on the remaining balance of the obligation for in cost of sales in the income statement.
is provided for in the tax charge.
Financial instruments Share-based payments Rentals under operating leases are charged Financial instruments are recorded initially at All plans are classified as equity settled.
to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Subsequent measurement depends The grant date fair value of employee share on the designation of the instrument, as follows: option plans is generally calculated using the Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Black-Scholes model.
In accordance with IFRS A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly or Investments other than interests in joint 2 Share-based Payments, the resulting cost indirectly, by AstraZeneca.
Control is regarded ventures, associates and fixed deposits is recognised in the income statement over as the power to govern the financial and and short term investments other than the vesting period of the options, being operating policies of the entity so as to obtain fixed deposits are normally designated the period in which the services are received.
Where the exposure The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect to a change in fair value of such an asset expected and actual levels of options vesting, The financial results of subsidiaries are is substantially offset by the exposure to except where the failure to vest is as a result consolidated from the date control is a change in the fair value of derivatives, of not meeting a market condition.
obtained until the date that control ceases.
the asset is generally classified as fair value through profit or loss.
Property, plant and equipment An associate is an undertaking, not being The Groups policy is to write off the difference a subsidiary or joint venture, over whose Fixed deposits, comprising principally between the cost of each item of property, commercial and financial policy decisions funds held with banks and other financial plant and equipment and its residual value AstraZeneca has significant influence.
institutions, classified as loans and systematically over its estimated useful life.
receivables, and short term borrowings Assets under construction are not depreciated.
A joint venture is an entity which is jointly and overdrafts, classified as other controlled by AstraZeneca and one or more liabilities, are held at amortised cost.
Reviews are made annually of the estimated other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
remaining lives and residual values of Derivatives, comprising interest rate individual productive assets, taking account AstraZenecas share of the profits less losses swaps, foreign exchange contracts and of commercial and technological obsolescence of joint ventures and associates is included options and embedded derivatives, are as well as normal wear and tear.
Under this in the Group income statement on the equity classified as held for trading.
policy it becomes impractical to calculate accounting basis.
The holding value of average asset lives exactly.
However, the associates and joint ventures in the Group Long term loans, where the change in fair total lives range from approximately thirteen balance sheet is calculated by reference to value is substantially offset by the exposure to fifty years for buildings, and three to fifteen AstraZenecas equity in the net assets of such to a change in the fair value of derivatives, years for plant and equipment.
All items of associates and joint ventures, as shown by are classified as fair value through profit or property, plant and equipment are tested for the most recent accounts available, adjusted loss when certain criteria are met.
impairment when there are indications that where appropriate and including goodwill on the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 103 Changes in the fair value of financial Accounting standards issued but instruments are dealt with as follows: not adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures For available for sale assets, exchange gains was issued in August 2005.
It revises and and losses and impairments are taken to enhances previous disclosures required by the income statement.
All other changes in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and fair value are taken to reserves.
On disposal Presentation and IAS 30 Disclosures in the of the related asset, the accumulated Financial Statements of Banks and similar changes in fair value recorded in reserves Financial Institutions.
It is effective for annual are included in the gain or loss recorded in periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007. the income statement.
The adoption of IFRS 7 will have no impact upon the results or net assets of AstraZeneca.
For assets and long term loans classified as fair value through profit or loss and assets IFRS 8 Operating Segments was issued in held for trading, all changes in fair value November 2006.
It requires the identification are recognised in the income statement.
of operating segments based on internal reporting to the chief operating decision Contingent liabilities maker and extends the scope and disclosure Through the normal course of business, requirements of IAS 14 Segmental Reporting.
AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, It is effective for annual periods beginning on the settlement of which may involve cost or after 1 January 2009.
The adoption of to the Group.
Provision is made where an IFRS 8 will have no impact upon the net adverse outcome is probable and associated results or net assets of AstraZeneca.
costs can be estimated reliably.
In other cases, appropriate descriptions are included.
AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental liabilities relating to its past operations, principally in respect of soil and groundwater remediation costs.
Provisions for these costs are made when there is a present obligation and where it is probable that expenditure on remedial work will be required and a reliable estimate can be made of the cost.
Provisions are discounted where the effect is material.
Foreign currencies Income statement items in foreign currencies are translated into US dollars at average exchange rates, which approximate to actual rates, for the relevant accounting periods.
Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the Group balance sheet.
Exchange gains and losses on short term foreign currency borrowings and deposits are included within finance income and finance expense.
Exchange differences on all other transactions, except relevant foreign currency loans, are taken to operating profit.
In the consolidated financial statements exchange differences arising on consolidation of the net investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates together with those on foreign currency loans which hedge these net investments are taken directly to equity via the statement of recognised income and expense.
