162 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED Share re-purchases During the year the Company re-purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 72,205,192 Ordinary Shares at an average price of 3059 pence per share.
The total consideration, including expenses, was $4,147m.
The excess of the consideration over the nominal value has been charged against the profit and loss account reserve.
Share schemes A total of 23,548,800 Ordinary Shares were issued during the year in respect of share schemes.
Details of movements in the number of Ordinary Shares under option are shown in Note 25 to the Group Financial Statements: details of options granted to Directors are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Shares held by subsidiaries No shares in the Company are held by subsidiaries.
8 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Crestor rosuvastatin AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and or AstraZeneca LP in the US were served with seven individual lawsuits in 2004 and 2005 involving alleged injury in association with the use of Crestor.
Four of these lawsuits have now been dismissed.
In addition, a motion for authorisation to institute a class action and to be a representative was filed in Quebec, Canada against AstraZeneca PLC and AstraZeneca Canada Inc.
The petitioner claims alleged injury as a result of the use of Crestor.
During 2006, AstraZeneca was served with six additional individual lawsuits in the US, five of which have since been dismissed.
AstraZeneca is vigorously defending all the remaining actions.
Exanta ximelagatran Four putative and essentially similar securities class actions were filed in the US against AstraZeneca PLC, Hkan Mogren, Sir Tom McKillop, Jonathan Symonds and Percy Barnevik between January and March 2005.
These actions were subsequently consolidated into a single action pending in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York.
The Consolidated Amended Complaint alleges that the defendants made materially false and misleading statements regarding Exanta clinical trials and the status of the Exanta New Drug Application in the US.
The plaintiffs purport to assert claims on behalf of purchasers of AstraZeneca publicly traded securities during the period 2 April 2003 to 10 September 2004 under sections 10 b and 20 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5.
The defendants deny the allegations made in the lawsuit and will vigorously defend the action.
They have filed a motion to dismiss the action, and that motion is pending before the Court.
Other The Company has guaranteed the external borrowing of a subsidiary, in the amount of $288m.
9 STATUTORY AND OTHER INFORMATION There are no employees of the Company 2005 nil.
The directors of the Company were paid by another Group company in 2006 and 2005.
