ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 177 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPANY The Board of Directors may exercise all the Annual general meetings and AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in England powers of the Company to borrow money.
extraordinary general meetings and Wales on 17 June 1992 under the Variation of these borrowing powers would Annual general meetings and extraordinary Companies Act 1985.
It is a public limited require the passing of a special resolution of general meetings where a special resolution company domiciled in the UK.
The Companys the Companys shareholders.
is to be passed or a Director is to be appointed registered number is 2723534 and its require 21 clear days notice to shareholders.
registered office is at 15 Stanhope Gate, Directors are not required to retire at a All other extraordinary general meetings London W1K 1LN telephone 44 0 20 particular age.
From February 1993 until April 1999, the Company was called Zeneca Directors are required to beneficially own For all general meetings, a quorum of two Group PLC.
On 6 April 1999, the Company Ordinary Shares in the Company of an shareholders present in person or by proxy changed its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
this means they must own at least 500 shares.
The Company was formed when the Shareholders and their duly appointed pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty Rights, preferences and restrictions proxies and corporate representatives are chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical attaching to shares entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
Industries PLC were demerged in 1993.
The share capital of the Company is divided In 1999, the Company sold the specialty into 2,400,000,000 Ordinary Shares with Limitations on the rights to own shares chemical business.
Also in 1999, the Company a nominal value of $0.25 each and 50,000 There are no limitations on the rights to merged with Astra AB of Sweden.
In 2000, Redeemable Preference Shares with a nominal own shares.
it demerged the agrochemical business and value of 1.00 each.
The rights and restrictions merged it with the similar agribusiness of attaching to the Redeemable Preference Novartis AG to form a new company called Shares differ from those attaching to Ordinary Syngenta AG.
Shares as follows: The Company owns and operates numerous The Redeemable Preference Shares carry R&D, production and marketing facilities no rights to receive dividends.
Its corporate headquarters are at 15 Stanhope Gate, London W1K 1LN.
The holders of Redeemable Preference Shares have no rights to receive notices MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION of, attend or vote at general meetings Objects except in certain limited circumstances.
As is typical of companies registered in They have one vote for every 50,000 England and Wales, the Companys objects, Redeemable Preference Shares held.
which are detailed in the Memorandum of Association, are broad and wide-ranging and On a distribution of assets of the Company, include manufacturing, distributing and on a winding-up or other return of capital trading pharmaceutical products.
subject to certain exceptions, the holders of Redeemable Preference Shares have Directors priority over the holders of Ordinary Subject to certain exceptions, Directors do Shares to receive the capital paid up on not have power to vote at Board meetings on those shares.
matters in which they have a material interest.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies The quorum for meetings of the Board of Act 1985, the Company has the right to Directors is a majority of the full Board, of redeem the Redeemable Preference whom at least four must be Non-Executive Shares at any time on giving not less than Directors.
In the absence of a quorum, the seven days written notice.
Directors do not have power to determine compensation arrangements for themselves Action necessary to change the rights or any member of the Board.
of shareholders In order to vary the rights attached to any class of shares, the consent in writing of the holders of three quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a general meeting of such holders is required.
