FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 133 25 EMPLOYEE COSTS AND SHARE OPTION PLANS FOR EMPLOYEES CONTINUED AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan Shares WAFV 000 pence Shares awarded in June 2005 312 1121 Shares awarded in March 2006 280 1486 Shares awarded in May 2006 19 1424 The fair value was determined using a modified version of the binomial model.
This method incorporated expected dividends but no other features into the measurements of fair value.
US incentive share schemes Shares WAFV 000 $ 864 46.16 Weighted average fair value The charge for share-based payments in respect of the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan and the US incentive share schemes is $14m 2005 $15m, 2004 $16m.
26 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 2006 2005 2004 $m $m $m Commitments Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in these accounts 383 220 298 Included in the above total are contracts related to certain product purchase and licence agreements with deferred consideration obligations, the amounts of which are variable depending upon particular milestone achievements.
Sales of the products to which these milestones relate could give rise to additional payments, contingent upon the sales levels achieved.
Guarantees and contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business, for which no security has been given, are not expected to result in any material financial loss.
During January 2007, AstraZeneca entered into two collaboration agreements with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Palatin Technologies Inc. for initial consideration of $100m and $10m respectively.
Both collaboration agreements have deferred consideration obligations, dependent upon particular milestone events.
AstraZeneca also entered into an agreement in January 2007 to acquire the total share capital of Arrow Therapeutics Ltd for $150m.
Arrangements with Merck Introduction In 1982, Astra AB set up a joint venture with Merck & Co. Inc. for the purposes of selling, marketing and distributing certain Astra products in the US.
In 1998, this joint venture was restructured the Restructuring.
Under the agreements relating to the Restructuring the Agreements, a US limited partnership was formed, in which Merck is the limited partner and AstraZeneca is the general partner, and AstraZeneca obtained control of the joint ventures business subject to certain limited partner and other rights held by Merck and its affiliates.
These rights provide Merck with safeguards over the activities of the partnership and place limitations on AstraZenecas commercial freedom to operate.
The Agreements provide for: Annual contingent payments.
A payment to Merck in the event of a business combination between Astra and a third party in order for Merck to relinquish certain claims to that third partys products.
Termination arrangements which, if and when triggered, cause Merck to relinquish its interests in AstraZenecas products and activities.
These elements are discussed in further detail below together with a summary of their accounting treatments.
Annual contingent payments AstraZeneca makes ongoing payments to Merck based on sales of certain of its products in the US the contingent payments on the agreement products.
As a result of the merger of Astra and Zeneca in 1999, these contingent payments excluding those in respect of Prilosec and Nexium cannot be less than annual minimum sums between 2002 and 2007 ranging from $125m to $225m.
AstraZenecas payments have exceeded the minimum level in 2002 to 2006 and, notwithstanding the entry of a generic competitor to Toprol-XL in November 2006, AstraZeneca has no reason to believe that the annual payment in 2007, the final year in which minimum levels apply, will fall below the minimum obligations.
134 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Payment in the event of a business combination On the merger of Astra and Zeneca, a one-time Lump Sum Payment of $809m was triggered.
As a result of this payment, Merck relinquished any claims it may have had to Zeneca products.
Termination arrangements The Agreements provided for arrangements and payments under which, subject to the exercise of certain options, the rights and interests in AstraZenecas activities and products held by Merck immediately prior to the merger would be terminated, including details of: The Advance Payment The Partial Retirement The First Option and True-Up The Loan Note Receivable The Second Option Advance Payment The merger between Astra and Zeneca triggered the first step in the termination arrangements.
Merck relinquished all rights, including contingent payments on future sales, to potential Astra products with no existing or pending US patents at the time of the merger.
As a result, AstraZeneca now has rights to such products and is relieved of potential obligations to Merck and restrictions in respect of those products including annual contingent payments, affording AstraZeneca substantial freedom to exploit the products as it sees fit.
At the time of the merger, the Advance Payment was paid.
It was calculated as the then net present value of $2.8bn discounted from 2008 to the date of merger at a rate of 13% per annum and amounted to $967m.
It is subject to a true-up in 2008, as discussed under First Option and True-Up below.
Partial Retirement In 2008, there will be a partial retirement of Mercks limited partnership interest by payment to Merck of an amount calculated as a multiple of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 on the relevant products, plus $750m.
Upon the Partial Retirement, Mercks rights in respect of certain of the agreement products will end.
The products covered by the Partial Retirement include Toprol-XL, Pulmicort, Rhinocort and Symbicort, the last of which is planned to be launched in the US in the middle of 2007, although this timeline is dependent upon successful transfer of technology from development to manufacturing and completion of validation batches.
First Option and True-Up In 2008, a calculation will be made of the Appraised Value, being the net present value of the future contingent payments in respect of all agreement products not covered by the Partial Retirement, other than Prilosec and Nexium.
Payment of the Appraised Value to Merck in 2008 will take place only if Merck exercises the First Option.
Should Merck not exercise this option in 2008, AstraZeneca may exercise it in 2010 for a sum equal to the 2008 Appraised Value.
Contingent payments will continue from 2008 to 2010 if AstraZeneca exercises in 2010.
Upon exercise of the First Option Merck will relinquish its rights over the agreement products not covered by the Partial Retirement, other than Nexium and Prilosec.
If neither Merck nor AstraZeneca exercises the option, the contingent payment arrangements in respect of these agreement products will continue as will AstraZenecas other obligations and restrictions in respect of these products and the Appraised Value will not be paid.
Products covered by the First Option include Atacand, Plendil and certain compounds still in development.
In addition, in 2008 there will be a true-up of the Advance Payment.
The true-up amount will be based on a multiple of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 in respect of all the agreement products with the exception of Prilosec and Nexium subject to a minimum of $6.6bn, plus other defined amounts totalling $912m.
It is then reduced by the Appraised Value whether paid or not, the Partial Retirement and the Advance Payment at its undiscounted amount of $2.8bn to determine the true-up amount.
The true-up will be settled in 2008 irrespective of whether the First Option is exercised, and this could result in a further payment by AstraZeneca to Merck or a payment by Merck to AstraZeneca.
Should Merck exercise the First Option in 2008, AstraZeneca will make payments in respect of the Partial Retirement, the First Option and the true-up totalling a minimum of $4.7bn.
If AstraZeneca exercises the First Option in 2010, the combined effect of the amounts paid to Merck in 2008 and 2010 will total the same amount.
Loan Note Receivable Included in the assets and liabilities covered by the Restructuring is a loan note receivable by AstraZeneca from Merck with a face value of $1.4bn.
In 2008, at the same time as the settlement of the Partial Retirement and the true-up, Merck will settle the loan note receivable by paying AstraZeneca $1.4bn.
Second Option A Second Option exists whereby AstraZeneca has the option to re-purchase Mercks interests in Prilosec and Nexium in the US.
This option is exercisable by AstraZeneca two years after the exercise of the First Option, whether the First Option is exercised in either 2008 or 2010.
Exercise of the Second Option by AstraZeneca at a later date is also provided for in 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount provided, in each case, that the First Option has been exercised.
The exercise price for the Second Option is the net present value of the future annual contingent payments on Prilosec and Nexium as determined at the time of exercise.
If the Second Option is exercised, Merck will then have relinquished all its interests in the partnership and the agreement products including rights to contingent payments.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 135 26 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED General The precise amount and timing of settlements with Merck under the Partial Retirement, the First Option and the true-up cannot be determined at this time.
Various components of the calculations are based, in part, on net sales between 2005 and 2007 and on forecasted performance beyond 2007, and payment of the First Option is contingent upon Merck or AstraZeneca exercising the First Option.
Similarly, the timing and amount of the Second Option cannot be determined at this time.
With the exception of the interests in Nexium and Prilosec, the total of the payments yet to be made under the termination arrangements is based, in part, on the contingent payments made in 2005 to 2007 subject to the minimum amount and is likely to be substantially driven by the sales of Toprol-XL, Pulmicort, Rhinocort and Atacand.
However, AstraZeneca anticipates that the benefits that accrue under all the termination arrangements arise: Currently, from the substantial freedom over products acquired or discovered post-merger.
On occurrence of each stage of such arrangements, from enhanced contributions from, and substantial freedom over, those products that have already been launched for example, Rhinocort and Atacand, those that are due to be launched in the US in particular, Symbicort and those that are in development.
Benefits include relief from contingent payments, anticipated cost savings from cessation of manufacturing arrangements and other cost efficiencies together with the strategic advantages of increased freedom to operate.
Accounting treatments Annual contingent payments: The annual contingent payments on agreement products are expensed as incurred.
Payment in the event of a business combination: The Lump Sum Payment was expensed at the point of merger since it caused no incremental benefits over the prior years aggregate Astra and Zeneca performance to accrue to the merged AstraZeneca entity.
Termination arrangements: AstraZeneca considers that the termination arrangements described above represent the acquisition, in stages, of Mercks interests in the partnership and agreement products including Mercks rights to contingent payments and depend, in part, on the exercise of the First and Second Options.
The effects will only be reflected in the Financial Statements as these stages are reached.
If and when all such payments are made, AstraZeneca will have unencumbered discretion in its operations in the US market.
The Advance Payment has been accounted for as an intangible asset and is being amortised over 20 years.
This approach reflects the fact that, under the Agreements, AstraZeneca has acquired rights relieving it of potential obligations and restrictions in respect of Astra products with no existing or pending patents at the time of merger.
Although these rights apply in perpetuity, the period of amortisation of 20 years has been chosen to reflect the typical timescale of development and marketing of a product.
The payments under the Partial Retirement, the First Option and true-up and the Second Option will be accounted for under the extant guidance when they are paid, with allocations to intangibles and goodwill, as appropriate.
If Merck exercises the First Option in 2008, the net minimum payment to be made to Merck, being the combined payments of $4.7bn less the repayment of the loan note of $1.4bn, would be $3.3bn.
In accounting for the Restructuring in 1998, the loan note was included in the determination of the fair values of the assets and liabilities to be acquired.
At that time, the loan note was ascribed a fair value of zero on acquisition and on the balance sheet because it was estimated that the net minimum payment of $3.3bn equated to the fair value of the rights to be acquired under the Partial Retirement, true-up and First Option.
Ongoing monitoring of the projected payments to Merck and the value to AstraZeneca of the related rights takes full account of changing business circumstances and the range of possible outcomes to ensure that the payments to be made to Merck are covered by the economic benefits expected to be realised, including those attributable to the strategic benefits of being relieved from some or all of the restrictions of the partnership with Merck.
Should the monitoring reveal that these payments exceed the economic benefits expected to be realised, a provision for an onerous contract would be recognised.
Environmental costs and liabilities The Groups expenditure on environmental protection, including both capital and revenue items, relates to costs which are necessary for implementing internal systems and programmes and meeting legal and regulatory requirements for processes and products.
They are an integral part of normal ongoing expenditure for carrying out the Groups research, manufacturing and commercial operations and are not separated from overall operating and development costs.
There are no known changes in legal, regulatory or other requirements resulting in material changes to the levels of expenditure for 2004, 2005 or 2006.
In addition to expenditure for meeting current and foreseen environmental protection requirements, the Group incurs costs in investigating and cleaning up land and groundwater contamination.
In particular, AstraZeneca and or its affiliates have environmental liabilities at some currently or formerly owned, leased and third party sites.
136 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED In the US, the AstraZeneca affiliate, Zeneca Inc. and or its indemnitees, have been named as potentially responsible parties PRPs or defendants at approximately 18 sites where Zeneca Inc. is likely to incur future investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance costs under federal or state, statutory or common law environmental liability allocations schemes.
Similarly, the AstraZeneca affiliate, Stauffer Management Company LLC SMC, which was established in 1987 to own and manage certain assets of Stauffer Chemical Company acquired that year, and or its indemnitees, have been named as PRPs or defendants at approximately 31 sites where SMC is likely to incur future investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance costs under federal or state, statutory or common law environmental liability allocations schemes.
In Europe and other parts of the world outside the US, AstraZeneca is likely to incur costs at one currently owned site and has given indemnities to third parties in respect of approximately 45 other sites.
These environmental liabilities arise from legacy operations that are not part of our current pharmaceuticals business and, at most of these sites, remediation, where required, is either completed or nearing completion.
AstraZeneca has made provisions for the estimated costs of future environmental investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance activity beyond normal ongoing expenditure for maintaining the Groups R&D and manufacturing capacity and product ranges where a present obligation exists, it is probable that such costs will be incurred, and they can be estimated reliably.
With respect to such estimated future costs, there were provisions at 31 December 2006 in the aggregate of approximately $107m, of which approximately $96m relates to the US.
These provisions do not include possible additional costs that are not currently probable.
Where we are jointly but not jointly and severally liable with third parties we reflect only our share of the obligation.
Where the liability is insured in part or in whole by insurance or other arrangments for reimbursement, an asset is recognised to the extent that this recovery is virtually certain.
It is possible that the Company, or its affiliates, could incur future environmental costs beyond the extent of our current provisions.
The extent of such possible, additional costs is inherently difficult to estimate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: 1 the nature and extent of claims that may be asserted in the future: 2 whether the Company or any of its affiliates has or will have any legal obligation with respect to asserted or unasserted claims: 3 the type of remedial action, if any, that may be selected at sites where the remedy is presently not known: 4 the potential for recoveries from or allocation of liability to third parties: and 5 the length of time that the environmental investigation, remediation and liability allocation process can take.
Notwithstanding and subject to the foregoing, it is estimated that potential additional loss for future environmental investigation, remediation and remedial operation and maintenance activity above and beyond our provisions could be, in the aggregate, in the order of $15-30 million.
Legal proceedings AstraZeneca is involved in various legal proceedings considered typical to its businesses, including litigation relating to employment, product liability, commercial disputes, infringement of intellectual property rights, the validity of certain patents, antitrust and securities law.
The more significant matters are discussed below.
No provisions have been established for any of the claims discussed below other than the European Union fine which has been paid.
Abraxane paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension albumin-bound In July 2006, Elan Pharmaceutical filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of Delaware against Abraxis Bioscience, Inc. Elan essentially alleges that Abraxis infringes two US patents in connection with the marketing, use and sale of Abraxane.
AstraZeneca is not named as a party in the lawsuit.
AstraZeneca is party to an agreement with Abraxis to co-promote Abraxane.
Crestor rosuvastatin AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and or AstraZeneca LP in the US were served with seven individual lawsuits in 2004 and 2005 involving alleged injury in association with the use of Crestor.
Four of these lawsuits have now been dismissed.
In addition, a motion for authorisation to institute a class action and to be a representative was filed in Quebec, Canada against AstraZeneca PLC and AstraZeneca Canada Inc.
The petitioner claims alleged injury as a result of the use of Crestor.
During 2006, AstraZeneca was served with six additional individual lawsuits in the US, all six of which have since been dismissed.
AstraZeneca is vigorously defending all the remaining actions.
Diprivan propofol In August 2002, AstraZeneca LP received a letter from ESI Lederle, a division of Wyeth, informing AstraZeneca of Wyeths intention to market a generic version of Diprivan prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents covering the current formulation.
AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Wyeth in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Through a series of transactions, the holder of the relevant Abbreviated New Drug Application and now defendant in AstraZenecas suit is Mayne Pharma USA Inc. formerly called Faulding Pharmaceutical Co.. Mayne responded to AstraZenecas complaint and filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability.
After a trial in 2005, the court issued its decision finding the AstraZeneca patents to be valid and enforceable and infringed by Maynes propofol product.
The court has issued an injunction preventing the manufacture, use, sale and offering for sale in the US of Maynes propofol product.
Mayne filed an appeal against this and in November 2006, the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the decision of the District Court.
In June 2006, the Diprivan New Drug Application was sold to Abraxis BioScience Inc. as part of an Asset Purchase Agreement.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 137 26 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Exanta ximelagatran Four putative and essentially similar securities class actions were filed in the US against AstraZeneca PLC, Hkan Mogren, Sir Tom McKillop, Jonathan Symonds and Percy Barnevik between January and March 2005.
These actions were subsequently consolidated into a single action pending in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York.
The Consolidated Amended Complaint alleges that the defendants made materially false and misleading statements regarding Exanta clinical trials and the status of the Exanta New Drug Application in the US.
The plaintiffs purport to assert claims on behalf of purchasers of AstraZeneca publicly traded securities during the period 2 April 2003 to 10 September 2004 under sections 10 b and 20 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5.
The defendants deny the allegations made in the lawsuit and will vigorously defend the action.
They have filed a motion to dismiss the action, and that motion is pending before the Court.
Iressa gefitinib During 2004, 2005 and 2006, six claims were filed against AstraZeneca KK in Japan, in the Osaka and Tokyo District Courts.
In five of the claims, it is alleged that Iressa caused a fatal incidence of interstitial lung disease ILD in a Japanese patient.
In the sixth claim, it is alleged that Iressa caused a non-fatal incidence of ILD.
AstraZeneca KK, following consultation with external legal advisers, believes the claims are without merit and is defending all the cases.
ILD is a known complication of lung disease, including advanced lung cancer, regardless of treatment.
Losec Prilosec omeprazole In 2001, AstraZeneca filed a suit in the US against Andrx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for infringement of a patent directed to a process for making an omeprazole formulation the 281 patent.
Andrx filed counterclaims of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability for inequitable conduct during prosecution of the 281 patent.
Andrx also asserted that in addition to the 281 patent, two other formulation patents, the 505 and 230 patents, were unenforceable for alleged litigation misconduct by AstraZeneca.
Both parties sought attorneys fees.
In May 2004, the US District Court for the Southern District of New York ruled that the 281 patent was infringed, but also ruled that the 281 patent was invalid.
The court dismissed Andrxs litigation misconduct and other counterclaims and affirmative defences, leaving intact the courts October 2002 decision finding the 230 and 505 patents not invalid and infringed by Andrx.
The October 2002 decision was affirmed in all respects on appeal in December 2003.
The court entered final judgment regarding the 281 patent in July 2004, after determining to stay the attorneys fees claims pending any appeals.
Andrx has appealed the judgment and AstraZeneca has cross-appealed.
The appeal was argued to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in August 2006, and the Court of Appeals reserved decision.
During 2000 and 2001, AstraZeneca had filed suits against Lek Pharmaceutical and Chemical Company d. d. and Lek Services USA, Inc. Impax Laboratories Inc. Eon Labs Manufacturing Inc. Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. Apotex Corp, Apotex, Inc. Torpharm, Inc. and Zenith Goldline Pharmaceuticals, Inc. now known as IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc..
These suits followed the filing of Abbreviated New Drug Applications by these companies with the FDA concerning the companies intention to market generic omeprazole products in the US.
The basis for the proceedings is that the actions of all the companies infringe the505 and230 formulation patents relating to omeprazole.
The cases are proceeding under the US Hatch-Waxman legislation.
The case against IVAX was dismissed without prejudice shortly after it was filed, after IVAX withdrew its application to market generic omeprazole.
During 2003, after Mylan commenced commercial sale of its product, AstraZeneca filed suit against Laboratorios Esteve, SA and Esteve Quimica, SA, manufacturers of the omeprazole product to be distributed in the US by Mylan.
In 2003 and 2004, Lek, Apotex and Impax all began commercial sales of their generic omeprazole products.
In July 2004, Lek filed a motion for summary judgment of non-infringement.
In January 2005, AstraZeneca filed suit against Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. which are marketing and selling Impaxs omeprazole products.
The Teva case was stayed in June 2005 until liability issues in the Impax action are resolved.
AstraZeneca made claims for damages against each of the selling defendants.
Anti-trust and non-infringement counterclaims were filed by Andrx, Apotex Torpharm, Impax, Eon and Lek.
All defendants except Lek have also raised invalidity and unenforceability counterclaims.
The anti-trust counterclaims, as well as AstraZenecas claims for damages, have been stayed pending resolution of the patent liability issues.
The cases were consolidated for discovery before, or are directly assigned to, Judge Jones in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York.
All discovery in these cases was completed in February 2005.
Briefing on the summary judgment motion filed by Lek and 14 additional motions for summary judgment was completed in July 2005.
All of the defendants motions for summary judgment were denied in January 2006.
In February 2006, the Eon suit was dismissed after it announced it would not commence sales until after the505 and230 patents expired.
In July 2005, AstraZeneca filed suit against Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. Ranbaxy Inc. and Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for infringement of the 505 and 230 formulation patents.
The Ranbaxy case was consolidated with the other omeprazole patent cases for pre-trial purposes.
In March 2006, the Ranbaxy case was dismissed when it announced it would not commence sales until after the505 and230 patents expired.
In January 2006, AstraZeneca dismissed its claims for damages against Impax, and as a result the Court struck Impaxs jury demand.
Impax appealed this decision on an interlocutory basis to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which denied the appeal, and then to the United States Supreme Court, which also denied the appeal.
From April to June 2006, Judge Jones conducted a consolidated bench trial on patent liability issues involving the remaining defendants, Mylan Esteve, Lek, Apotex and Impax.
Post-trial briefing was completed in July 2006.
No decision has yet been rendered.
138 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED In April 2006, AstraZeneca received a notice from Dexcel Pharma Technologies Dexcel that Dexcel had submitted a New Drug Application seeking FDA approval to market a 20mg omeprazole tablet for the over-the-counter OTC market.
Dexcel seeks approval to market a generic omeprazole OTC product before the expiration of the patents listed in the FDA Orange Book in reference to AstraZenecas Prilosec product and the Prilosec OTC that is marketed by Procter & Gamble.
In May, AstraZeneca filed suit in the US District Courts for the District of Delaware and the Eastern District of Virginia charging Dexcel with infringement of the505 and230 patents and US Patent No.
The Virginia case is stayed pending resolution of Dexcels objection to jurisdiction in Delaware.
Discovery is ongoing, and no trial date has yet been set.
In June and July 2004, AstraZeneca applied in France for injunctions based on its omeprazole formulation patent against six companies for marketing generic omeprazole.
In August 2004, the applications were rejected at first instance.
AstraZeneca appealed this decision and in March 2005 the applications were rejected on appeal.
In May 2004, AstraZeneca also started legal proceedings against the same companies for infringement of its omeprazole formulation patent in France.
These proceedings have been consolidated with a case challenging the validity of the patent, brought by one of the companies against AstraZeneca.
No date has yet been set for a hearing.
During 2000, AstraZeneca was granted interlocutory injunctions based on certain of AstraZenecas omeprazole patents against the generic companies, Generics UK Ltd. and Scandinavian  AB Scand Pharm, in Denmark and Scand Pharm in Norway.
In October 2001, Oslo City Court in Norway confirmed that Scand Pharm had infringed AstraZenecas formulation patent for omeprazole.
At the same time, the court declared AstraZenecas formulation patent valid.
In November 2004, these findings were upheld by the Appeal Court.
As a result of the Norwegian case, Scand Pharm cannot sell its omeprazole product in Norway.
Furthermore, it has also been prevented from selling its omeprazole product in Denmark pending the outcome of the main action in the Danish case.
The parties have settled these cases.
In addition, in 2001 AstraZeneca was granted an interlocutory injunction based on AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patents against the generic company A S Gea Farmaceutiske Fabrik now Hexal A S, which is still prevented from selling the omeprazole product in Denmark pending the outcome of the main action.
An interlocutory injunction against Biochemie Novartis Healthcare A S was granted in Denmark during 2003, based on AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent and the main action is still pending.
In December 2004, an interlocutory injunction against Nomeco A S, a Danish distributor of a generic omeprazole product from ratiopharm, was granted in Denmark based on AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent.
The case was heard on appeal in November and December 2005 and, in February 2006, the High Court repealed the interlocutory injunction.
The main action on the merits is still pending.
During 2003 and 2004, AstraZeneca was denied interlocutory injunctions based on certain of its omeprazole patents against Novartis Sverige AB and ratiopharm AB in Sweden and Novartis Finland Oy and ratiopharm Oy in Finland.
In 2002 and 2003, Novartis Sverige AB, ratiopharm AB and Arrow Lkemedel AB initiated cases to invalidate AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent.
These cases have been consolidated and are currently pending before the Stockholm District Court  infringement cases against Novartis Sverige AB and ratiopharm AB in Sweden, in 2003.
These infringement cases have been stayed pending the outcome of the invalidity cases.
In Finland, the separate infringement proceedings against ratiopharm Oy and Novartis Finland Oy based on infringement of AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent had been stayed in 2005, as Novartis Finland Oy had initiated an invalidation action against the formulation patent.
In May 2006, AstraZeneca and Novartis Finland Oy settled their disputes, as a result of which the invalidation action against the formulation patent and the infringement action against Novartis Finland Oy were withdrawn.
During the autumn of 2006, the infringement action against ratiopharm Oy, which had been stayed pending the outcome of the invalidation action by Novartis Finland Oy, was resumed and is currently pending.
Also during 2003, the District Court in Norway found that the generic omeprazole product marketed by ratiopharm AB did not infringe AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent.
This judgment was confirmed by the Norwegian Appeal Court in October 2005.
In January 2006, the Supreme Court in Norway denied AstraZeneca leave to appeal.
AstraZeneca continues to be involved in numerous proceedings in Canada involving various generics and patents, including under the Patented Medicines Notice of Compliance Regulations, relating to omeprazole capsules or omeprazole magnesium tablets.
Apotex Inc. launched a generic omeprazole capsule product in Canada in January 2004.
Following this launch, AstraZeneca commenced judicial review proceedings seeking to quash Apotexs notice of compliance marketing approval and AstraZeneca sued Apotex in July 2004 alleging infringement of its formulation patents by Apotexs omeprazole capsules.
In May 2005, the Canadian Federal Court of Appeal quashed Apotexs notice of compliance marketing approval, overruling the first instance decision in September 2004, which went against AstraZeneca.
In June 2005, the Canadian Federal Court of Appeal granted Apotexs motion for a stay of the Courts decision to quash the notice of compliance, pending an application by Apotex for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada.
The Supreme Court of Canada granted Apotex leave to appeal and also continued the stay granted by the Federal Court of Appeal, thereby allowing Apotex to continue selling its omeprazole capsules pending a decision by the Supreme Court on Apotexs appeal.
The appeal was heard in May 2006 and allowed in November 2006, with the result that Apotex can continue to sell omeprazole capsules pending the outcome of the patent infringement action.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 139 26 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED In February 2006, the Federal Court of Appeal upheld a lower court decision which prohibited Apotex from obtaining a notice of compliance marketing approval for omeprazole magnesium tablets until the expiry of a relevant formulation patent in December 2008.
In January 2006, AstraZeneca Canada Inc. was served with a claim in the Federal Court of Canada for payment of an undetermined sum based on damages allegedly suffered by Apotex due to the delay from January 2002 to January 2004 in the issuance to Apotex of a notice of compliance marketing approval in Canada for its 20mg omeprazole capsule product.
The claim was held in abeyance pending Apotexs appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada, and following the November 2006 allowance of that appeal Apotex has indicated it will be advancing the damages claim.
AstraZeneca believes the claim is without merit and intends to defend it and to pursue its already pending patent infringement actions against Apotex vigorously.
AstraZeneca Canada initiated proceedings in the Federal Court of Canada against Novopharm Limited in connection with certain patents related to omeprazole magnesium tablets, on the basis that Novopharm was seeking a notice of compliance marketing approval in Canada based on a comparison with AstraZenecas Losec tablets.
While several proceedings remain pending, Novopharm has not made an allegation in respect of the omeprazole salt patent and has indicated that it will await expiry of the patent on 23 January 2007.
AstraZeneca Canada initiated proceedings in the Federal Court of Canada against Sandoz Canada Inc. in connection with certain patents related to omeprazole capsules, on the basis that Sandoz was seeking a notice of compliance marketing approval in Canada based on a comparison with AstraZenecas Losec capsules.
In January 2007, AstraZeneca Canada Inc. discontinued long pending proceedings against Reddy-Cheminor Inc. in respect of patents relating to omeprazole capsules, following Reddy-Cheminors withdrawal of its allegations.
In February 2000, the European Commission commenced an investigation relating to certain omeprazole intellectual property rights, and associated regulatory and patent infringement litigation.
The investigation is pursuant to Article 82 of the EC Treaty, which prohibits an abuse of a dominant position.
The investigation was precipitated by a complaint by a party to a number of patent and other proceedings involving AstraZeneca.
AstraZeneca has, in accordance with its corporate policy, co-operated with the Commission.
In July 2003, the Commission served a Statement of Objections on AstraZeneca, referring to alleged infringements regarding the obtaining of supplementary protection certificates for omeprazole in certain European countries: and regarding AstraZenecas replacement of omeprazole capsules by omeprazole MUPS tablets and withdrawal of capsule marketing authorisations in three European countries.
AstraZeneca replied fully to the Commission, explaining why its actions were, in AstraZenecas view, lawful.
An oral hearing took place in February 2004.
In June 2005, the European Commission notified AstraZeneca PLC and AstraZeneca AB of its Decision to impose fines totalling60m on the companies for infringement of European competition law Article 82 of the EC Treaty and Article 54 of the EEA Agreement.
The Commission alleges that the companies abused their dominant positions in the periods between 1993 and 2000 by making a pattern of misleading representations before the patent offices and or courts in Belgium, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and the UK in regard to obtaining supplementary protection certificates for omeprazole: and by requesting the surrender of market authorisations for omeprazole capsules in Denmark, Norway and Sweden, combined with withdrawal from these countries of omeprazole capsules and the launch of omeprazole MUPS tablets.
AstraZeneca does not accept the Commissions Decision and has appealed it to the Court of First Instance.
AstraZeneca denies that it had a dominant position or that it was engaged in the behaviours as characterised by the Commission.
In the meantime, the fine was fully provided for in the half year results in 2005 through a charge to operating profit of $75m.
It is alleged by the Commission that these activities had the effect of hindering the entry of the generic version of Losec and parallel trade.
It is possible that third parties could seek damages for alleged losses arising from this matter.
Any such claims would be vigorously resisted.
Nexium esomeprazole AstraZeneca entities have been sued in various state and federal courts in the US in purported representative and class actions involving the marketing of Nexium esomeprazole magnesium.
These actions generally allege that AstraZenecas promotion and advertising of Nexium to physicians and consumers is unfair, unlawful and deceptive conduct, particularly as the promotion relates to comparisons of Nexium with Prilosec.
They also allege that AstraZenecas conduct relating to the pricing of Nexium was unfair, unlawful and deceptive.
The plaintiffs allege claims under various state consumer protection, unfair practices and false advertising laws.
The plaintiffs in these cases seek remedies that include restitution, disgorgement of profits, damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief, attorneys fees and costs of suit.
The first action was brought in 2004 in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles by the AFL-CIO, two unincorporated associations and an individual on behalf of themselves, the general public and a class of California consumers, third party payers, cash payers and those making a co-payment.
A second action was filed in the same court on behalf of a similar putative class of consumers.
Actions making substantially similar allegations were filed in 2004 and 2005 on behalf of putative classes of consumers, third party payers, purchasers and labour management trust funds in the Circuit Court of Searcy County, Arkansas: in the Superior Court of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County: in the Superior Court of Massachusetts in Boston: in the US District Court for the District of Delaware three consolidated cases : and in the Circuit Court of the 11th Judicial Court in and for Miami-Dade County, Florida.
In September 2005, the court in California issued a ruling on AstraZenecas demurrer and motion to strike in the two California actions.
The court granted AstraZenecas motion with respect to the associational plaintiffs and denied the motion with respect to the individual plaintiffs, allowing the cases of the individuals to proceed.
In October 2005, the court in Massachusetts denied AstraZenecas motion to dismiss.
Discovery in the California and Massachusetts cases is proceeding, and plaintiffs motions for class certification are expected to be filed in mid-2007.
140 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED In November 2005, the US District Court for the District of Delaware granted AstraZenecas motion to dismiss the consolidated class action complaint.
The plaintiffs appealed the dismissal to the US Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
The Delaware state case has been stayed pending the outcome of the Delaware federal cases.
In May 2006, the Arkansas state court granted AstraZenecas motion to dismiss the plaintiffs complaint.
The plaintiffs filed additional motions and pleadings, including an amended complaint.
AstraZeneca filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint.
In October 2006, the Florida court dismissed the plaintiffs complaint with prejudice and without leave to amend.
The plaintiff has appealed the dismissal, and the opening appeal brief is due in February 2007.
In December 2006 and January 2007, several lawsuits against AstraZeneca entities, including putative class actions, were filed in US District Court for the District of Columbia alleging claims of unlawful monopolisation relating to Prilosec and Nexium.
Individual actions were filed on 7 December 2006 by Walgreen Co. Eckerd Corporation.
Maxi Drug, Inc. d b a Brooks Pharmacy, The Kroger Co. New Albertsons Inc. Safeway, Inc. Hy-Vee, Inc. and American Sales Company, Inc. and on 8 December 2006 by Rite Aid Corporation, and Rite Aid Headquarters Corp. Putative class actions brought on behalf of direct purchasers were filed on 18 December 2006 by Meijer, Inc. and Meijer Distribution, Inc. on 19 December 2006 by Louisiana Wholesale Drug Co. Inc. and on 8 January 2007 by Burlington Drug Co. Inc. Dik Drug Co. Inc, and King Drug Co. of Florence, Inc.
The plaintiffs seek treble damages, injunctive relief, and attorney fees.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations and intends to vigourously defend each of the actions.
In November 2003, the European Patent Office EPO ruled that the European substance patent covering magnesium esomeprazole, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Nexium, was valid.
The patent, which expires in May 2014, was challenged by the generic manufacturer ratiopharm.
The EPO ruling was appealed by ratiopharm.
In December 2006, the Board of Appeals of the EPO ruled that the patent is invalid.
While disappointed with the EPO decision, AstraZeneca has confidence in the intellectual property portfolio protecting Nexium.
This portfolio includes process, method of use and additional substance patents with expiration dates ranging from 2009 through to 2019.
The process patent is under opposition with the EPO and an Opposition Division oral hearing is scheduled for October 2007 postponed from the original hearing date in March 2007.
In addition to these patents, Nexium has data exclusivity valid to 2010 in major European markets.
The revocation of the AstraZeneca European substance patent relating to Nexium should not have any substantive impact on AstraZenecas ability to uphold and enforce its Nexium patents in the United States.
AstraZeneca has several US patents covering Nexium, all of which can be differentiated from the European patent found to be invalid.
In October 2004, AstraZeneca LP filed suit in the US District Court for the District of Delaware seeking declaratory judgment that its Better is Better campaign for Nexium was not false or misleading advertising in violation of section 43 a of the Lanham Act, a federal statute governing false advertising claims.
The action was taken in response to a letter from TAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc. demanding that AstraZeneca immediately withdraw the television commercial and other components of the direct-to-consumer advertising campaign for Nexium on the basis that they allegedly violated the statute.
In November 2004, TAP requested expedited consideration of the case by filing a motion for a preliminary injunction, which the court denied in December 2004.
In May and June 2006, the court dismissed all of the claims for damages asserted by TAP in its counterclaims and dismissed most of TAPs claims for injunctive relief.
In August 2006, the parties entered into a settlement agreement, and the case has been dismissed in its entirety.
In October 2005, AstraZeneca received a notice from Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. that Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited had submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA to the US FDA for esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, 20mg and 40mg.
The ANDA contained paragraph IV certifications of invalidity and or non-infringement in respect of certain AstraZeneca US patents listed in the FDAs Orange Book with reference to Nexium.
In November 2005, AstraZeneca commenced wilful infringement patent litigation in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its affiliates in response to Ranbaxys paragraph IV certifications regarding Nexium.
In January 2006, AstraZeneca received a notice from IVAX Pharmaceuticals Inc. that IVAX Corporation had submitted an ANDA to the US FDA for esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, 20mg and 40mg.
IVAX also certified in respect of certain other AstraZeneca US patents listed in the Orange Book with reference to Nexium that IVAX will not launch its product prior to the expiry of those patents, the latter of which expires in October 2007.
In March 2006, AstraZeneca commenced wilful patent infringement litigation in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against IVAX, its parent Teva Pharmaceuticals, and their affiliates.
The Ranbaxy and Teva IVAX matters have been consolidated.
In August 2006, AstraZeneca received a notice from Dr. Reddys Laboratories, Ltd. and Dr. Reddys Laboratories, Inc. Dr. Reddys that Dr. Reddys had submitted an ANDA to the US FDA for esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, 20mg and 40mg.
Dr. Reddys was seeking FDA approval to market a generic esomeprazole magnesium product prior to the expiration of some but not all of the patents listed in the FDA Orange Book with reference to Nexium.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 141 26 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED Dr. Reddys notice did not challenge three Orange Book-listed patents claiming esomeprazole magnesium US Patent Nos.
AstraZenecas exclusivity relating to these three patents expires on 3 August 2015, 27 November 2014 and 27 November 2014, respectively.
Because AstraZeneca has not received notice from Dr. Reddys as to these three US patents, Dr. Reddys cannot market generic esomeprazole magnesium until the end of the exclusivity afforded by these patents.
As a result, AstraZeneca did not bring a lawsuit at this time.
AstraZeneca reserves the right to enforce all patents related to Nexium, including those listed in the FDA Orange Book.
AstraZeneca continues to have full confidence in and will vigorously defend and enforce its intellectual property protecting Nexium.
Nolvadex tamoxifen AstraZeneca is a co-defendant with Barr Laboratories, Inc. in numerous purported class actions filed in federal and state courts throughout the US.
All of the state court actions were removed to federal court and have been consolidated, along with all of the cases originally filed in the federal courts, in a federal multi-district litigation proceeding pending in the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
Some of the cases were filed by plaintiffs representing a putative class of consumers who purchased tamoxifen.
The other cases were filed on behalf of a putative class of third party payers including health maintenance organisations, insurers and other managed care providers and health plans that have reimbursed or otherwise paid for prescriptions of tamoxifen.
The plaintiffs allege that they paid supra-competitive and monopolistic prices for tamoxifen as a result of the settlement of patent litigation between Zeneca and Barr in 1993.
The plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, treble damages under the antitrust laws, disgorgement and restitution.
In April 2002, AstraZeneca filed a motion to dismiss the cases for failure to state a cause of action.
In May 2003, the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York granted AstraZenecas motion to dismiss.
The plaintiffs appealed the decision.
In November 2005, the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the District Courts decision.
The plaintiffs thereafter moved for re-hearing by the original panel of judges in the case and re-hearing by a panel of all of the judges on the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
The plaintiffs requests for re-hearing were denied in September 2006.
In December 2006, the plaintiffs filed a petition for a writ of certiorari to the US Supreme Court seeking to have the Court hear an appeal of the Second Circuits decision.
Pulmicort Respules budesonide inhalation suspension In September 2005, AstraZeneca received a notice from IVAX Pharmaceuticals Inc. that IVAX had submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA to the US FDA for a budesonide inhalation suspension containing a paragraph IV certification and alleging invalidity and non-infringement in respect of certain of AstraZenecas patents relating to budesonide inhalation suspension.
In October 2005, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against IVAX in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey.
In December 2005, IVAX responded and filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement and invalidity.
In January 2006, AstraZeneca filed an amended complaint, withdrawing averments as to the infringement of one of the patents-in-suit.
Discovery in the litigation is ongoing.
AstraZeneca continues to have full confidence in and will vigorously defend and enforce its intellectual property protecting Pulmicort Respules.
Seroquel quetiapine fumarate In August 2003, Susan Zehel-Miller filed a putative class action against AstraZeneca PLC and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP on behalf of all persons in the US who purchased and or used Seroquel.
Among other things, the class action alleged that AstraZeneca failed to provide adequate warnings in connection with an alleged association between Seroquel and the onset of diabetes.
In 2004, the US District Court for the Middle District of Florida denied class certification and the case was ultimately dismissed.
Two additional putative class actions raising similar allegations have likewise been dismissed.
There are no other US class actions relating to Seroquel: however, four putative class actions raising substantially similar allegations have been filed in Canada.
Additionally, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, either alone or in conjunction with one or more affiliates, has been sued in numerous individual personal injury actions involving Seroquel.
In the overwhelming majority of these cases, the nature of the plaintiffs alleged injuries is not clear.
Although some plaintiffs contend that they developed diabetes or other related injuries as a result of taking Seroquel and or other atypical anti-psychotic medications, in most instances, little or no factual information regarding the alleged injury has been provided.
As of 24 January 2007, AstraZeneca was defending 604 served or answered lawsuits involving approximately 7,450 plaintiff groups.
These include a number of recently filed cases that include close to 1,000 plaintiff groups per case.
The majority of the Seroquel cases are pending in federal court with clusters of state court activity in Delaware, New Jersey, New York and Missouri.
AstraZeneca is also aware of over 600 additional cases that have been filed but not yet served and has not determined how many additional cases, if any, may have been filed.
Some of the cases also include claims against other pharmaceutical manufacturers such as Eli Lilly, Janssen Pharmaceutica and or Bristol-Myers Squibb.
AstraZeneca intends to vigorously defend all of the Seroquel cases.
In September 2005, AstraZeneca received a notice from Teva Pharmaceuticals USA that Teva had submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA for quetiapine fumarate 25mg tablets containing a paragraph IV certification alleging invalidity, unenforceability, or noninfringement respecting AstraZenecas US patent listed in the FDAs Orange Book with reference to Seroquel.
In November 2005, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit directed to Tevas 25mg tablets ANDA in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey for wilful patent infringement.
In February 2006, AstraZeneca received another notice from Teva Pharmaceuticals USA that Teva had amended its previously submitted ANDA for quetiapine fumarate 25mg tablets and added 100, 200 and 300mg tablets to its application to the US FDA.
The amended ANDA submission contained a similar paragraph IV certification alleging invalidity, unenforceability, or non-infringement in respect of AstraZenecas US patent listed in the FDAs Orange Book with reference to Seroquel.
In March 2006, in response to Tevas amended ANDA and Tevas intent to market additional strengths of a generic version of Seroquel in the US prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patent, AstraZeneca filed an additional lawsuit against Teva in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey for patent infringement.
142 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED The two lawsuits were consolidated in April 2006.
However in March 2006, the US District Court had granted Tevas motion to strike AstraZenecas added allegation of wilfullness in its patent infringement claim in the first complaint directed to Tevas 25mg tablets.
Therefore, in the consolidated action, in response to AstraZenecas now-combined allegations of patent infringement directed to Tevas 25, 100, 200 and 300mg ANDA tablets, Teva alleges non-infringement and patent invalidity.
In January 2007, Teva filed a motion seeking leave to amend its pleadings in the consolidated action to add allegations, defences, and counter-claims directed to alleged inequitable conduct in the procurement of AstraZenecas patent.
Discovery in the consolidated case is proceeding.
AstraZeneca continues to have full confidence in and will vigorously defend and enforce its intellectual property protecting Seroquel.
Symbicort budesonide formoterol In March 2005, the European Patent Office ruled that the European patent covering the combination of formoterol and budesonide in Symbicort is valid.
The patent, which expires in 2012 Supplementary Patent Certificate expires 2015, was challenged by the generic manufacturers Yamanouchi Europe BV, Miat SpA, Liconsa, Chiesi Farmaceutici SpA, Zambon Group SpA, Generics UK Limited and Norton Healthcare Ltd.
In May 2005, the European Patent Office ruled that the European patent for Symbicort in the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD is valid.
The patent, which expires in 2018, was challenged by the generic manufacturers Chiesi Farmaceutici SpA, Norton Healthcare Ltd and Generics UK Limited.
The European Patent Office rulings relating to both the combination and the COPD European patents for Symbicort have been appealed by certain of the opponents in the proceedings.
It is not anticipated that the appeals will be heard before the latter part of 2007.
In February 2004, IVAX Pharmaceuticals UK Limited initiated proceedings against AstraZeneca AB claiming that the UK parts of the two European patents related to Symbicort were invalid.
In May 2004, the court granted AstraZenecas application for a stay of the proceedings pending the determination of the parallel opposition proceedings before the European Patent Office, described above.
In April 2004, IVAX initiated proceedings against AstraZeneca AB in relation to the Republic of Ireland claiming that the Irish parts of the two European patents related to Symbicort were invalid.
In October 2004, the court granted AstraZenecas application for a stay of proceedings pending the final decision of the European Patent Office and its Boards of Appeal in the opposition proceedings.
Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate In May 2003, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against KV Pharmaceutical Company in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri in response to KVs notification of its intention to market a generic version of Toprol-XL tablets in the 200mg dose prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents covering the substance and its formulation.
In response to later similar notices from KV related to the 25, 50 and 100mg doses, AstraZeneca filed further actions.
KV responded in each instance and filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the listed patents.
In February 2004, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Andrx Pharmaceuticals LLC in the US District Court for the District of Delaware in response to Andrxs notification of its intention to market a generic version of Toprol-XL tablets in the 50mg dose prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents.
In response to two later similar notices from Andrx related to the 25,100 and 200mg doses, AstraZeneca filed two additional patent infringement actions in the same court.
In each instance, Andrx claimed that each of the listed patents is invalid, not infringed and unenforceable.
In April 2004, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Eon Labs Manufacturing Inc. in the US District Court for the District of Delaware in response to Eons notification of its intention to market generic versions of Toprol-XL tablets in the 25, 50, 100 and 200mg doses prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents.
In its response, Eon alleged that each of the listed patents is invalid, not infringed and unenforceable.
Eon also alleged that the filing of the infringement complaints, as well as other actions by AstraZeneca, constitutes anti-competitive conduct in violation of US anti-trust laws.
Pursuant to a joint motion of AstraZeneca and Eon these anti-trust counts were severed from the case and stayed, for possible consideration depending on the outcome of the trial of the patent claims.
All of the patent litigation relating to Toprol-XL against KV, Andrx and Eon was consolidated for pre-trial discovery purposes and motion practice in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri.
The defendants filed a motion for summary judgment in December 2004 alleging that the Toprol-XL patents are invalid due to double patenting.
A summary judgment motion of unenforceability was filed by the defendants in 2005 and AstraZeneca filed summary judgment motions on infringement and validity in 2005.
In January 2006, the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri issued a ruling finding that the two patents-in-suit are unenforceable based on the Companys inequitable conduct in the prosecution of these patents in the US Patent and Trademark Office and invalid.
AstraZeneca appealed the District Court decision to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
The appeal was fully briefed in 2006 and was argued on 8 December 2006.
We await the decision of the Court of Appeals.
In August 2006, Sandoz formerly Eon received final approval from the US Food and Drug Administration FDA on the 25mg dose of metoprolol succinate and tentative approval on the 50, 100 and 200mg doses.
On 21 November 2006, Sandoz launched its 25mg metoprolol succinate product, which was followed by Par Pharmaceuticals launch of a 25mg generic metoprolol succinate under a distribution agreement by AstraZeneca.
There is no longer a stay in effect on the approval of the ANDAs filed by KV and Andrx but neither has received FDA approval.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 143 26 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED In the first quarter of 2006, AstraZeneca was served with 14 complaints filed in the US District Courts in Delaware, Massachusetts, and Florida against AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, AstraZeneca LP, AstraZeneca AB and Aktiebolaget Hssle.
The complaints were putative class actions filed on behalf of both direct purchasers and indirect purchasers that allege that the AstraZeneca defendants attempted to illegally maintain monopoly power in the US over Toprol-XL in violation of the Sherman Act through the listing of invalid and unenforceable patents in the FDAs Orange Book and the enforcement of such patents through litigation against generic manufacturers seeking to market metoprolol succinate.
The complaints seek treble damages based on alleged overcharges to the putative classes of plaintiffs.
The lawsuit is based upon the finding described above by the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri in the consolidated litigation against KV, Andrx and Eon that the AstraZeneca patents relating to Toprol-XL are invalid and unenforceable.
As noted above, AstraZeneca is appealing the ruling in the patent litigation.
These 14 complaints were consolidated into two amended complaints, one on behalf of direct purchasers, and one on behalf of indirect purchasers.
AstraZeneca has filed a motion seeking to dismiss or in the alternative stay the consolidated complaint in both cases.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations of the anti-trust complaints and will vigorously defend the lawsuits.
AstraZeneca continues to maintain that its patents for Toprol-XL are valid, enforceable and infringed by the actual and proposed generic products of KV, Andrx and Eon and that its enforcement of its patents did not violate anti-trust laws.
Zestril lisinopril In 1996, two of AstraZenecas predecessor companies, Zeneca Limited and Zeneca Pharma Inc. as licensees, Merck & Co. Inc. and Merck Frosst Canada Inc. commenced a patent infringement action in the Federal Court of Canada against Apotex Inc. alleging infringement of Mercks lisinopril patent.
Apotex sold a generic version of AstraZenecas Zestril and Mercks Prinivil tablets.
Apotex admitted infringement but has raised positive defences to infringement, including that it acquired certain quantities of lisinopril prior to issuance of the patent and that certain quantities were licensed under a compulsory licence.
Apotex also alleged invalidity of the patent.
Following a trial in early 2006, in April 2006 the Federal Court of Canada ruled in favour of AstraZeneca and Merck on the key issues and Apotex stopped selling lisinopril in May 2006.
In October 2006, the Federal Court of Appeal in Canada upheld the lower courts decision and dismissed Apotexs appeal.
In December 2006 Apotex sought leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada and the application remains pending.
AstraZeneca as licensee also had a case pending in the Federal Court of Canada against Cobalt Pharmaceuticals Inc. pertaining to the same Merck lisinopril patent, on the basis that Cobalt was seeking a notice of compliance marketing approval in Canada based on a comparison with AstraZenecas Zestril.
However, in 2006, Cobalt withdrew its notice of allegation relating to lisinopril and AstraZeneca discontinued its case against Cobalt.
Zestoretic lisinopril hydrochlorothiazide AstraZeneca as licensee had a case pending in the Federal Court of Canada against Apotex Inc. pertaining to Mercks lisinopril hydrochlorothiazide combination patent, on the basis that Apotex was seeking a notice of compliance marketing approval in Canada based on a comparison with AstraZenecas Zestoretic.
AstraZeneca is potentially liable for damages in the event that Apotexs market entry is held to have been improperly delayed.
The case against Apotex was discontinued by AstraZeneca in August 2006.
Apotexs combination product will likely remain off the market until the expiry of a relevant patent in October 2007.
Average wholesale price class action litigation In January 2002, AstraZeneca was named as a defendant along with 24 other pharmaceutical manufacturers in a class action suit, in Massachusetts, brought on behalf of a putative class of plaintiffs alleged to have overpaid for prescription drugs as a result of inflated wholesale list prices.
Following the Massachusetts complaint, nearly identical class action suits were filed against AstraZeneca and various other pharmaceutical manufacturers in four other states.
AstraZeneca and other manufacturers have since been sued in similar lawsuits filed by the state Attorneys General of Pennsylvania, Nevada, Montana, Wisconsin, Illinois, Alabama, Kentucky, Arizona, Mississippi, Hawaii, and Alaska, as well as by multiple individual counties in the State of New York.
The Attorney General lawsuits seek to recover alleged overpayments under Medicaid and other state-funded healthcare programmes.
In several cases, the states are also suing to recover alleged overpayments by state residents.
Several of these suits have been consolidated with the Massachusetts action for pre-trial purposes, pursuant to federal multi-district litigation MDL procedures.
In January 2006, the District Court in Boston certified three classes of plaintiffs against the Track 1 manufacturer defendants, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Schering-Plough, and Johnson & Johnson.
The three certified classes are: Class1 a nationwide class of consumers who made co-payments for certain  drugs reimbursed under the Medicare Part B programme Part B drugs : Class 2 a Massachusetts-only class of third-party payers, including insurance companies, union health and welfare benefit plans, and selfinsured employers, who covered consumer co-payments for Part B drugs: and Class 3 a Massachusetts-only class of third-party payers and consumers who paid for Part B drugs outside of the Medicare programme.
For all classes, the only AstraZeneca drug at issue is Zoladex goserelin acetate implant.
144 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED A bench trial against four of the Track 1 defendants, including AstraZeneca, by Classes 2 and 3 began on 6 November 2006 and concluded on 26 January 2007.
The Court has yet to render its decision.
A separate jury trial against AstraZeneca only, by Class 1, is scheduled for 30 April 2007.
The multiple Attorney General lawsuits filed in state courts are proceeding independently of the Boston MDL proceeding.
The first trials that potentially involve AstraZeneca are scheduled for November 2007 in the Alabama and Mississippi Attorney General cases.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations made in all of the average wholesale price lawsuits and will vigorously defend the actions.
340B Class Action Litigation In August 2004, AstraZeneca was named as a defendant along with multiple other pharmaceutical manufacturers in a class action suit filed in Alabama Federal Court on behalf of all so-called disproportionate share entities.
These are the hospitals and clinics that treat a substantial portion of uninsured patients and thus qualify for preferential pricing under the Public Health Service Act drug discount programme the 340B Program.
According to the complaint, the genesis of the suit was an audit report by the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General OIG in June 2004.
The OIG later withdrew the audit report and in 2006, re-issued a revised audit report that substantially modified the previous audit findings.
After the issuance of the revised OIG audit report, the named plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their lawsuit against the defendants.
A similar class action suit was filed in August 2005 by the County of Santa Clara in California state court.
The County of Santa Clara sued as a representative of a class of similarly situated counties and cities in California alleged to have overpaid for 340B-covered drugs.
The case was removed to the US District Court for the Northern District of California.
In 2006, the US District Court dismissed each of the allegations in the Countys complaint.
The County appealed the dismissal to the US Court of Appeals for the North Circuit.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations in the Countys complaint and intends to continue to defend them vigorously.
Additional government investigations into drug marketing practices As is true for most, if not all, major prescription pharmaceutical companies operating in the US, AstraZeneca is currently involved in multiple US federal and state criminal and civil investigations into drug marketing and pricing practices.
Two of the active investigations are being handled by the US Attorneys Office in Boston.
The first involves a subpoena for documents and information relating to sales and marketing interactions with a leading provider of pharmacy services to long-term care facilities.
The second involves an investigation relating to the sale and marketing of products to an individual physician in Worcester, Massachusetts and certain physicians and entities affiliated with that physician.
These investigations may be the subject of sealed qui tam lawsuits filed under the False Claims Act.
The US Attorneys Office in Philadelphia is directing three additional, active investigations.
The first two involve requests for documents and information relating to contracting and disease management programmes with two of the leading national Pharmacy Benefits Managers.
The third involves a review of sales and marketing practices relating to Seroquel, including allegations that the Company promoted Seroquel for non-indicated off-label uses.
AstraZeneca understands that all of these investigations may be the subjects of sealed qui tam lawsuits filed under the False Claims Act.
There are a number of additional active investigations led by state Attorneys General.
These include subpoenas received in September 2006 from the Alaska and California Attorney Generals Offices seeking information relating to Seroquel sales and marketing practices.
In addition, the Nevada and Delaware Attorney Generals Offices have requested documents and information relating to the development of patient education and practice management materials for physicians.
It is not possible to predict the outcome of any of these investigations, which could include the payment of damages and the imposition of fines, penalties and administrative remedies.
Informal SEC inquiry In October 2006, AstraZeneca received from the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC a letter requesting documents related to its business activities in Italy, Croatia, Russia and Slovakia for the period 1 October 2003 to the present.
The SECs request generally seeks documents concerning any payments to doctors or government officials and related internal accounting controls.
The request also seeks policies, correspondence, audits and other documents concerning compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as any allegations or communications with prosecutors offices relating to corruption or bribery of doctors or government officials.
AstraZeneca is in the process of responding to the SECs request.
It is not currently possible to predict the outcome of this inquiry.
Drug importation anti-trust litigation In May 2004, plaintiffs in a purported class action filed complaints in the US District Court for Minnesota and for New Jersey, alleging that AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and eight other pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants conspired to prevent American consumers from purchasing prescription drugs from Canada, depriving consumers of the ability to purchase drugs at competitive prices.
The New Jersey case was voluntarily dismissed in July 2004.
In August 2005, the Minnesota District Court dismissed with prejudice the plaintiffs federal anti-trust claims and declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction in relation to the state statutory and common law claims, which claims were dismissed without prejudice.
The plaintiffs appealed the District Courts decision to the US Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
In November 2006, the US Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed the District Courts decision.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 145 26 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CONTINUED In August 2004, Californian retail pharmacy plaintiffs filed an action in the Superior Court of California making similar allegations to the Minnesota action and also alleging a conspiracy by approximately 15 pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants to set the price of drugs sold in California at or above the Canadian sales price for those same drugs.
In July 2005, the court overruled in part and sustained in part, without leave to amend, the defendants motion to dismiss the plaintiffs third amended complaint in these proceedings.
The Court overruled the defendants motion in respect of conspiracy claims but sustained the motion in respect of the California Unfair Competition Law claims.
On 15 December 2006, the court granted the defendants motion for summary judgment and the case will be dismissed.
In January 2007, plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal with the Court of Appeal of the State of California.
AstraZeneca denies the material allegations of both the Minnesota and California actions and is vigorously defending these matters.
Anti-trust In July 2006, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP was named as a defendant, along with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers and wholesalers, in a complaint filed by RxUSA Wholesale, Inc. in the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
The complaint alleges that the defendants violated federal and state anti-trust laws by, among other things, allegedly refusing to deal with RxUSA and other secondary wholesalers in the wholesale pharmaceutical industry.
The plaintiff alleges a conspiracy among the manufacturers and seeks an injunction and treble damages.
AstraZeneca vigorously denies the allegations and in November 2006 filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.
For a description of other anti-trust-related litigation involving AstraZeneca, see the subsections entitled Losec Prilosec omeprazole, Nolvadex tamoxifen and Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate in this Note 26 to the Financial Statements.
StarLink AstraZeneca Insurance Company Limited AZIC commenced arbitration proceedings in the UK against insurers in respect of amounts paid by Garst Seed Company of the US in settlement of claims arising in the US from Garsts sale of StarLink, a genetically engineered corn seed.
The English High Court ruled, on appeal by reinsurers from a preliminary finding in AZICs favour by the arbitration panel, that English law applies to recovery under the reinsurance arrangements.
This is contrary to AZICs view, which is that recovery should be assessed under Iowa law, and AZIC sought leave to appeal this finding to the Court of Appeal.
Leave to appeal was refused and in the circumstances AZIC decided not to proceed further with the case.
Taking into account recoveries and a central provision, taken in 2004, this will have no impact on 2006 profits.
AstraZenecas interest in Garst was through AstraZenecas 50% ownership of Advanta BV, the sale of which to Syngenta AG was announced in May 2004 and completed in September 2004.
General With respect to each of the legal proceedings described above, other than those which have been disposed of, we are unable to make estimates of the possible loss or range of possible losses at this stage, other than where noted in the case of the European Commission fine.
We also do not believe that disclosure of the amount sought by plaintiffs, if that is known, would be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings.
This is due to a number of factors including: the stage of the proceedings in many cases trial dates have not been set and overall length and extent of legal discovery: the entitlement of the parties to an action to appeal a decision: clarity as to theories of liability: damages and governing law: uncertainties in timing of litigation: and the possible need for further legal proceedings to establish the appropriate amount of damages, if any.
However, although there can be no assurance regarding the outcome of any of the legal proceedings or investigations referred to in this Note 26 to the Financial Statements, we do not expect them to have a materially adverse effect on our financial position or profitability.
Taxation Where tax exposures can be quantified, a provision is made based on best estimates and managements judgement.
Details of the movements in relation to material tax exposures are discussed below.
AstraZeneca faces a number of transfer pricing audits in jurisdictions around the world.
The issues under audit are often complex and can require many years to resolve.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make estimates and judgements with respect to the ultimate outcome of a tax audit, and actual results could vary from these estimates.
The total net accrual included in the Financial Statements to cover the worldwide exposure to transfer pricing audits is $995m, an increase of $452m due to a number of new audits, revisions of estimates relating to existing audits, offset by a number of negotiated settlements.
For certain of the audits, AstraZeneca estimates the potential for additional losses above and beyond the amount provided to be up to $445m: however, management believes that it is unlikely that these additional losses will arise.
Of the remaining tax exposures, the Company does not expect material additional losses.
It is not possible to estimate the timing of tax cash flows in relation to each outcome.
Included in the provision is an amount of interest of $265m.
Interest is accrued as a tax expense.
