MEASURING PERFORMANCE The Board and the Senior Executive Team PRODUCTS In terms of measuring the way we do SET use a quarterly business performance business, we have a range of key performance management BPM report to measure our MARKETED PRODUCTS indicators KPIs, by which we measure our progress in delivering our strategic objectives.
Sales value growth at constant exchange progress in important areas of corporate rates see page 31. responsibility CR.
Auditing of compliance The report provides Board and SET members Global sales for key growth products and external assurance is fundamental to with shared insight into current progress see page 13. ensuring high standards of ethical behaviour, against short-term nonfinancial objectives Market share percentages for key and compliance is integrated into many of and current year milestones for longer-term growth products.
the KPIs used to measure our CR progress.
More details about these KPIs and our 2006 performance are provided in the separate A range of financial and nonfinancial PIPELINE Corporate Responsibility Summary Report objectives are set each year.
During 2006 New candidate drugs see page 15.
the focus was on the following key areas: Number of development projects by Phase see page 14.
We also participate in leading external Product performance R&D investment in US dollar terms see surveys, such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Pipeline page 14.
Indexes, which are important means of Productivity and pro tability Progress against development milestones.
evaluating our performance and Shareholder returns understanding better the demands of Reputation sustainable development.
Governance PERFORMANCE AstraZeneca is listed in the 2007 Dow Jones During 2006, we reviewed our BPM Earnings per share growth see inside front Sustainability World Index, used by asset framework with a view to further enhancing cover.
managers globally to guide their socially our focus on our strategic objectives, which Cost growth rates.
However, whilst we are now grouped under four areas: Gross margin, costs and operating pro t improved our score, we did not regain the margin percentages progression over time place we lost in 2005 in the European Index Patients see page 24.
Dow Jones STOXX, where competition for Products Dividends and share re-purchases see places is increasingly erce.
Total shareholder return see page 40.
GOVERNANCE Reputation and governance objectives have been included in all four areas, to re ect As a result of our review of our BPM The AstraZeneca Code of Conduct which the importance of integrating consistent framework in 2006, we are developing new is available on our website sets out the high behaviours across all of our business activities.
objectives for 2007 in relation to Patients and standards we expect from our employees, People.
We will report on these objectives in and with which compliance is mandatory.
Shareholder returns have been included due course.
As part of our commitment under that Code in the performance area.
to comply with all applicable laws and codes of practice, we apply all of the principles of The means of measuring performance MEASURING REPUTATION good governance in the UK Combined Code in these areas range from quantitative, on Corporate Governance.
We also comply comparative performance measures to The performance measures referred to above with all of the provisions of the UK Combined more qualitative, discursive analysis.
are measures of our progress in what we Code and our corporate governance do in the business of delivering successful practices are generally consistent with the Together, they provide the framework for medicines and, thus, shareholder value.
New York Stock Exchanges corporate consistently monitoring and reporting our As previously mentioned, we also include governance listing standards.
Our continuous progress towards achieving our objectives reputation and governance objectives within assurance processes are designed to ensure and, ultimately, delivering enduring the key areas described above.
we effectively monitor our compliance with shareholder value.
Speci c measures that our Board and SET use when assessing performance in relation to the key areas noted above, or that are otherwise judged to be helpful in enabling shareholders better to understand and evaluate our business, are described and illustrated throughout this Annual Review.
