Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:14 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 150367121 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS 133 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 134 Listings 134 Share and ADS prices 134 Capital Gains Tax CGT Rights issue Demerger of O2 135 Analysis of shareholdings 135 Dividends 135 Dividend mandate 136 Dividend investment plan 136 Global Invest Direct 136 Total shareholder return 136 Results announcements 136 Individual Savings Accounts ISAs 137 ShareGift 137 Unclaimed Assets Register 137 Exchange rates 137 Share buy back 137 Memorandum and Articles of Association Memorandum Articles 140 Material contracts 140 Taxation US Holders Taxation of dividends Taxation of capital gains Passive foreign investment company status US information reporting and backup withholding UK stamp duty UK inheritance and gift taxes in connection with ordinary shares and or ADSs 142 Limitations affecting security holders 142 Documents on display 142 Publications 143 Electronic communication 143 Shareholder communication Private shareholders Institutional investors and analysts 132 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Additional information for shareholders Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:14 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 1589514042 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this annual report are forward-looking and are made in reliance on the safe harbour provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements relate to analyses and other information which are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable.
These statements include, without limitation, those concerning: BTs transformation strategy and its ability to achieve it: expected cost savings: growth of, and opportunities available in, the communications industry and BTs positioning to take advantage of those opportunities: expectations regarding competition, market shares, prices and growth: expectations regarding the convergence of technologies: growth and opportunities in new wave business such as networked IT services, broadband and mobility : BTs network development and plans for the 21st century network: plans for the launch of new products and services: network performance and quality: the impact of regulatory initiatives on operations, including the regulation of the UK xed wholesale and retail businesses and the impact of the Undertakings to Ofcom under the Enterprise Act: BTs possible or assumed future results of operations and or those of its associates and joint ventures: BTs future dividend policy: capital expenditure and investment plans: adequacy of capital: nancing plans: demand for and access to broadband and the promotion of broadband by third-party service providers: and those preceded by, followed by, or that include the words aims, believes, expects, anticipates, intends, will, should or similar expressions.
Although BT believes that the expectations reected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct.
Because these statements involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause differences between actual results and those implied by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: material adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by BT and its lines of business: future regulatory actions and conditions in its operating areas, including competition from others: selection by BT and its lines of business of the appropriate trading and marketing models for its products and services: technological innovations, including the cost of developing new products, networks and solutions and the need to increase expenditures for improving the quality of service: the anticipated benets and advantages of new technologies, products and services, including broadband and other new wave initiatives not being realised: developments in the convergence of technologies: prolonged adverse weather conditions resulting in a material increase in overtime, staff or other costs: the timing of entry and profitability of BT and its lines of business in certain communications markets: significant changes in market shares for BT and its principal products and services: uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates: and general financial market conditions affecting BTs performance.
Certain of these factors are discussed in more detail elsewhere in this annual report including, without limitation, in Group risk factors.
BT undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Additional information for shareholders BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 133 Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:14 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 443981801 LISTINGS The principal listing of BT Groups ordinary shares is on the London Stock Exchange.
American Depositary Shares ADSs, each representing 10 ordinary shares, have been issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Depositary for the American Depositary Receipts ADRs evidencing the ADSs, and are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
ADSs also trade, but are not listed, on the London Stock Exchange.
Trading on the New York Stock Exchange is under the symbol BT.
The prices are the highest and lowest closing middle market prices for BT ordinary shares, as derived from the Daily Ofcial List of the London Stock Exchange and the highest and lowest closing sales prices of ADSs, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar affect the dollar equivalent of the pound sterling price of the companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange and, as a result, are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange.
CAPITAL GAINS TAX CGT The rights issue in June 2001 and the demerger of O2 in November 2001 adjusted the value for capital gains tax purposes of BT shares.
Rights issue An explanatory note on the effects of the rights issue on the CGT position relating to BT shareholdings is available from the Shareholder Helpline see page 143.
Demerger of O2 capital gains tax calculation The confirmed ofcial opening prices for BT Group and O2 shares on 19 November 2001 following the demerger were 285.75p and 82.75p, respectively.
This means that, of the total combined value of 368.50p, 77.544% is attributable to BT Group and 22.456% to O2.
Accordingly, for CGT calculations, the base cost of BT Group shares and O2 shares is calculated by multiplying the acquisition cost of a BT shareholding by 77.544% and 22.456%, respectively.
b Under the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan, 58.57 million shares were held in trust on behalf of 83,102 participants who were beneficially entitled to the shares.
132 million shares were held in the corporate nominee BT Group EasyShare on behalf of 116,643 beneficial owners.
c 268 million shares were represented by ADSs.
Analysis by size of holding is not available for this holding.
d 290 million shares were held as treasury shares.
e 14.6% of the shares were in 1,359,282 individual holdings, of which 111,955 were joint holdings, and 85.4% of the shares were in 23,060 institutional holdings.
So far as the company is aware, the company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by the UK Government or any other foreign government or by any other natural or legal person severally or jointly.
There are no arrangements known to the company the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the company.
At 12 May 2006, there were 8,635,453,557 ordinary shares outstanding including 289,613,278 shares held as treasury shares.
At the same date, approximately 27 million ADSs equivalent to 270 million ordinary shares, or approximately 3.11% of the total number of ordinary shares outstanding on that date were outstanding and were held by 2,792 record holders of ADRs.
At 31 March 2006, there were 3,615 shareholders with a US address on the register of shareholders.
DIVIDENDS Since shortly after its incorporation in 1984, British Telecommunications plc paid interim dividends annually in February and final dividends in September.
However, as part of BTs debt reduction and restructuring plans, neither a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2001 nor an interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2002 was paid to shareholders.
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2005 was paid on 5 September 2005 to shareholders on the register on 5 August 2005, and an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2006 was paid on 13 February 2006 to shareholders on the register on 31 December 2005.
The dividends paid or payable on BT shares and ADSs for the last five years are shown in the following table.
The dividends on the ordinary shares exclude the associated tax credit.
The amounts shown are not those that were actually paid to holders of ADSs.
For the tax treatment of dividends paid see Taxation of dividends below.
Dividends have been translated from pounds sterling into US dollars using exchange rates prevailing on the date the ordinary dividends were paid.
The US dollar amount of the final dividend of 76 pence per ADS to be paid to holders of ADSs will be based on the exchange rate in effect on 11 September 2006, the date of payment to holders of ordinary shares.
As dividends paid by the company are in pounds sterling, exchange rate uctuations will affect the US dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion by the Depositary of such cash dividends.
DIVIDEND MANDATE Any shareholder wishing dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account should contact the Shareholder Helpline see page 143.
Dividends paid in this way will be paid through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
Alternatively, a form may be downloaded from the Dividends page of our website at www.
com sharesandperformance Additional information for shareholders BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 135 Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:17 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -543488626 DIVIDEND INVESTMENT PLAN The Dividend investment plan replaced the share dividend plan for shareholders following the 1999 interim dividend.
Under the Dividend investment plan, cash from participants dividends is used to buy further BT shares in the market.
Shareholders could elect to receive additional shares in lieu of a cash dividend for the following dividends: Date paid Price per share pence 2001 interim 12 February 2001 621.80 2002 final 9 September 2002 191.19 2003 interim 10 February 2003 178.23 2003 final 8 September 2003 184.41 2004 interim 9 February 2004 175.98 2004 final 6 September 2004 183.69 2005 interim 7 February 2005 209.95 2005 final 5 September 2005 220.25 2006 interim 13 February 2006 214.50 GLOBAL INVEST DIRECT Details of the direct purchase plan run by the ADR Depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, Global Invest Direct, including reinvestment of dividends, are available from JPMorgan Chase Bank on 1 800 634 8366 toll free within the USA or 1 201 680 6630 from outside the USA, or on written request to the ADR Depositary.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN Total Shareholder Return TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
It is therefore, a good indicator of a companys overall performance.
Over the last five years as shown in the first TSR chart below, BTs TSR as adjusted for the rights issue and demerger was negative 25% compared to a FTSE 100 TSR of positive 25%.
This was primarily due to a fall in BTs share price which, like many stocks in the telecoms, media and technology TMT sector, declined in the early part of the period.
In the period between the demerger on 19 November 2001 and 31 March 2006, BTs TSR was negative 6%, compared to negative 15% for the FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index and positive 31% for the FTSE 100.
BT has also outperformed the FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index in the last 12 months with a return of 13.4% compared to 1.6% for that index.
BTs TSR performance vs the FTSEurofirst 300 Telco Index BTs total shareholder return TSR performance vs the FTSE 100 since demerger over the five financial years to 31 March 2006 125 140 BT FTSEurofirst 300 Telco BT FTSE 100 120 100 100 75 80 50 60 40 25 20 0 0 19 31 31 31 31 31 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar Nov Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 1 April 2001 100 Source: Datastream 19 November 2001 100 Source: Datastream The graph shows the relative TSR performance adjusted for the rights issue and demerger The graph shows the relative TSR performance of BT and the FTSEurofirst 300 Telco Index of our mobile business in the 2002 financial year of BT and the FTSE 100. since demerger.
RESULTS ANNOUNCEMENTS Expected announcements of results: 1st quarter 27 July 2006 2nd quarter and half year 9 November 2006 3rd quarter and nine months February 2007 4th quarter and full year May 2007 2007 annual report and accounts published June 2007 INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNTS ISAs Information about investing in BT shares through an ISA may be obtained from Halifax Share Dealing Limited, Trinity Road, Halifax, W. Yorkshire HX1 2RG telephone 0870 242 5588.
ISAs are also offered by other organisations.
136 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Additional information for shareholders Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:19 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -1914840059 SHAREGIFT The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme are available from ShareGift at www.
org or telephone 020 7828 1151, or can be obtained from the Shareholder Helpline.
UNCLAIMED ASSETS REGISTER BT is among a growing number of companies which subscribe to the Unclaimed Assets Register, which provides a search facility for financial assets, such as shareholdings and dividends which have become separated from their owners.
The Register donates a proportion of its public search fees to charity via ShareGift.
For further information on the Unclaimed Assets Register, visit www.
EXCHANGE RATES BT publishes its consolidated financial statements expressed in pounds sterling.
The following tables detail certain information concerning the exchange rates between pounds sterling and US dollars based on the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers in pounds sterling as certied for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate.
SHARE BUY BACK The following table gives details of the purchase by BT of its own shares during the 2006 financial year.
Purchases from August 2005 to March 2006 were made in accordance with a resolution passed at the AGM on 13 July 2005. b There are no plans or programmes BT has determined to terminate prior to expiration, or under which BT does not intend to make further purchases.
c Authority was given to purchase up to 859 million shares on 14 July 2004 and 850 million shares on 13 July 2005.
These authorities expire at the close of the following AGM, or 15 months following the date of approval if earlier.
The authority given in July 2004 expired on 13 July 2005.
MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The following is a summary of the principal provisions of BTs memorandum and articles of association Memorandum and Articles, a copy of which has been led with the Registrar of Companies.
Memorandum The Memorandum provides that the companys principal objects are, among other things, to carry on any business of running, operating, managing and supplying telecommunication systems and systems of any kind for conveying, receiving, storing, processing or transmitting sounds, visual images, signals, messages and communications of any kind.
Additional information for shareholders BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 137 Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:19 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 555207138 Articles In the following description of the rights attaching to the shares in the company, a holder of shares and a shareholder is, in either case, the person entered on the companys register of members as the holder of the relevant shares.
Shareholders can choose whether their shares are to be evidenced by share certicates i. e. in certicated form or held in electronic i. e. uncerticated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
a Voting rights Subject to the restrictions described below, on a show of hands, every shareholder present in person or by proxy at any general meeting has one vote and, on a poll, every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share which they hold.
Voting at any meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by at least five shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their proxies, or by one or more shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their proxies and who have, between them, at least 10% of the total votes of all shareholders who have the right to vote at the meeting.
No person is, unless the Board decide otherwise, entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he or any person appearing to be interested in those shares has been sent a notice under section 212 of the Companies Act 1985 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he or any interested person has failed to supply to the company the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
These restrictions end seven days after the earlier of the date the shareholder complies with the request satisfactorily or the company receives notice that there has been an approved transfer of the shares.
b Variation of rights Whenever the share capital of the company is split into different classes of shares, the special rights attached to any of those classes can be varied or withdrawn either: i with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class: or ii with the consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of that class.
At any separate meeting, the necessary quorum is two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal amount of the issued shares of the class in question but at any adjourned meeting, any person holding shares of the class or his proxy is a quorum.
The company can issue new shares and attach any rights and restrictions to them, as long as this is not restricted by special rights previously given to holders of any existing shares.
Subject to this, the rights of new shares can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or existing shares can take priority over them, or the new shares and the existing shares can rank equally.
c Changes in capital The company may by ordinary resolution: i consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger amount: ii divide all or part of its share capital into shares of a smaller amount: iii cancel any shares which have not, at the date of the ordinary resolution, been taken or agreed to be taken by any person and reduce the amount of its share capital by the amount of the shares cancelled: and iv increase its share capital.
The company may also: i buy back its own shares: and ii by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital redemption reserve and any share premium account.
d Dividends The companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution provided that no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Dividends must be paid out of profits available for distribution.
If the directors consider that the profits of the company justify such payments, they can pay interim dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide.
Fixed dividends will be paid on any class of shares on the dates stated for the payments of those dividends.
The directors can offer ordinary shareholders the right to choose to receive new ordinary shares, which are credited as fully paid, instead of some or all of their cash dividend.
Before they can do this, the companys shareholders must have passed an ordinary resolution authorising the directors to make this offer.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for ten years after it was declared or became due for payment will be forfeited and will belong to the company unless the directors decide otherwise.
e Distribution of assets on winding up If the company is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, under supervision of the court or by the court the liquidator can, with the authority of an extraordinary resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company.
This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or different kinds.
For this purpose, the liquidator can place whatever value the liquidator considers fair on any property and decide how the division is carried out between shareholders or different groups of shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same authority, transfer any assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of shareholders which the liquidator decides.
The liquidation of the company can then be nalised and the company dissolved.
No past or present shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other property under the Articles which could give that shareholder a liability.
138 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Additional information for shareholders Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:19 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 1491700128 f Transfer of shares Certicated shares of the company may be transferred in writing either by an instrument of transfer in the usual standard form or in another form approved by the Board.
The transfer form must be signed or made effective by or on behalf of the person making the transfer.
The person making the transfer will be treated as continuing to be the holder of the shares transferred until the name of the person to whom the shares are being transferred is entered in the register of members of the company.
The Board may refuse to register any transfer of any share held in certicated form: s which is in favour of more than four joint holders: or s unless the transfer form to be registered is properly stamped to show payment of any applicable stamp duty and delivered to the companys registered ofce or any other place the Board decide.
The transfer must have with it the share certicate for the shares to be transferred: any other evidence which the Board ask for to prove that the person wanting to make the transfer is entitled to do this: and if the transfer form is executed by another person on behalf of the person making the transfer, evidence of the authority of that person to do so.
Transfers of uncerticated shares must be carried out using a relevant system as dened in the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 1995 the Regulations.
The Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncerticated share in the circumstances stated in the Regulations.
If the Board decide not to register a transfer of a share, the Board must notify the person to whom that share was to be transferred no later than two months after the company receives the transfer or instruction from the operator of the relevant system.
The Board can decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of shareholders.
The register must not be closed without the consent of the operator of a relevant system as dened in the Regulations in the case of uncerticated shares.
g Untraced shareholders BT may sell any shares after advertising its intention and waiting for three months if the shares have been in issue for at least ten years, during that period at least three dividends have become payable on them and have not been claimed and BT has not heard from the shareholder or any person entitled to the dividends by transmission.
The net sale proceeds belong to BT, but it must pay those proceeds to the former shareholder or the person entitled to them by transmission if that shareholder, or that other person, asks for them.
h General meetings of shareholders Every year the company must hold an annual general meeting.
The Board can call an extraordinary general meeting at any time and, under general law, must call one on a shareholders requisition.
i Limitations on rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders The only limitation imposed by the Articles on the rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders is that a shareholder whose registered address is outside the UK and who wishes to receive notices of meetings of shareholders or documents from BT must give the company an address within the UK to which they may be sent.
j Directors Directors remuneration Excluding remuneration referred to below, each director will be paid such fee for his services as the Board decide, not exceeding 50,000 a year and increasing by the percentage increase of the UK Retail Prices Index as dened by Section 833 2 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for any 12-month period beginning 1 April 1999 or an anniversary of that date.
The company may by ordinary resolution decide on a higher sum.
This resolution can increase the fee paid to all or any directors either permanently or for a particular period.
The directors may be paid their expenses properly incurred in connection with the business of the company.
The Board can award extra fees to a director who holds an executive position: acts as chairman or deputy chairman: serves on a Board committee at the request of the Board: or performs any other services which the Board consider extend beyond the ordinary duties of a director.
The directors may grant pensions or other benets to, among others, any director or former director or persons connected with them.
However, BT can only provide these benets to any director or former director who has not been an employee or held any other ofce or executive position in the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, or to relations or dependants of, or people connected to, those directors or former directors, if the shareholders approve this by passing an ordinary resolution.
Directors votes A director need not be a shareholder, but a director who is not a shareholder can still attend and speak at shareholders meetings.
Unless the Articles say otherwise, a director cannot vote on a resolution about a contract in which the director has a material interest this will also apply to interests of a person connected with the director.
The director can vote if the interest is only an interest in BT shares, debentures or other securities.
A director can, however, vote and be counted in a quorum in respect of certain matters in which he is interested as set out in the Articles.
Subject to the relevant legislation, the shareholders can by passing an ordinary resolution suspend or relax, among other things, the provisions relating to the interest of a director in any contract or arrangement or relating to a directors right to vote and be counted in a quorum on resolutions in which he is interested to any extent or ratify any particular contract carried out in breach of those provisions.
Additional information for shareholders BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 139 Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:20 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 389705639 Directors interests If the legislation allows and the director has disclosed the nature and extent of the interest to the Board, the director can: i have any kind of interest in a contract with or involving BT or in which BT has an interest or with or involving another company in which BT has an interest : ii have any kind of interest in a company in which BT has an interest including holding a position in that company or being a shareholder of that company : iii hold a position other than auditor in BT or another company in which BT has an interest on terms and conditions decided by the Board: and iv alone or through some rm with which the director is associated do paid professional work other than as auditor for BT or another company in which BT has an interest on terms and conditions decided by the Board.
A director does not have to hand over to BT any benefit received or profit made as a result of anything permitted to be done under the Articles.
When a director knows that they are interested in a contract with BT they must tell the other directors.
Retirement of directors Provisions of the legislation which, read with the Articles, would prevent a person from being or becoming a director because that person has reached the age of 70 do not apply to the company.
At every annual general meeting, any director who was elected or last re-elected a director at or before the annual general meeting held in the third year before the current year, shall retire by rotation.
Any director appointed by the directors automatically retires at the next following annual general meeting.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election.
Directors borrowing powers To the extent that the legislation and the Articles allow, the Board can exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge its business, property and assets present and future and to issue debentures and other securities, and give security either outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the company or another person.
The Board must limit the borrowings of the company and exercise all the companys voting and other rights or powers of control exercisable by the company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to ensure that the aggregate amount of all borrowings by the group outstanding, net of amounts borrowed intra-group among other things, at any time does not exceed 35 billion.
MATERIAL CONTRACTS Excluding contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business, no contracts have been entered into in the two years preceding the date of this document by BT or another member of the group which are, or may be, material to the group or contain a provision under which a member of the group has an obligation or entitlement which is, or may be, material to BT or such other member of the group.
TAXATION US HOLDERS This is a summary only of the principal US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs by US Holders as dened below who hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
It does not address all aspects of US federal income taxation and does not address aspects that may be relevant to persons who are subject to special provisions of US federal income tax law, including US expatriates, insurance companies, tax-exempt organisations, banks, regulated investment companies, financial institutions, securities broker-dealers, traders in securities who elect a mark-to-market method of accounting, persons subject to alternative minimum tax, investors that directly, indirectly or by attribution own 10% or more of the outstanding share capital or voting power of BT, persons holding their ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, hedging transaction or conversion transaction, persons who acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs pursuant to the exercise of options or otherwise as compensation, or persons whose functional currency is not the US dollar, amongst others.
Those holders may be subject to US federal income tax consequences different from those set forth below.
For the purposes of this summary, a US Holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that, for US federal income tax purposes, is: a citizen or individual resident of the United States, a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation for US federal income tax purposes created or organised in or under the laws of the United States or any political subdivision thereof, an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
If a partnership holds ordinary shares or ADSs, the US tax treatment of a partner generally will depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership.
A partner in a partnership that holds ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult its own tax advisor regarding the specic tax consequences of owning and disposing of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
In particular, this summary is based on i current UK tax law and the practice of Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC and US law and US Internal Revenue Service IRS practice, including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, existing and proposed Treasury regulations, rulings, judicial decisions and administrative practice, all as currently in effect and available, ii the United KingdomUnited States Convention relating to estate and gift taxes, and iii the United KingdomUnited States Tax Convention that entered into force on 31 March 2003 and the protocol thereto the Convention, all as in effect on the date of this annual report, all of which are subject to change or changes in interpretation, possibly with retroactive effect.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisors as to the applicability of the Convention and the consequences under UK, US federal, state and local, and other laws, of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs.
140 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Additional information for shareholders Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:20 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 305699418 Taxation of dividends Under current UK tax law, BT will not be required to withhold tax at source from dividend payments it makes.
For US federal income tax purposes, a distribution will be treated as ordinary dividend income.
The amount of the distribution includible in gross income of a US Holder will be the US dollar value of the distribution calculated by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date the distribution is actually or constructively received by a US Holder of ordinary shares, or by the Depositary, in the case of ADSs.
A US Holder who converts the British pounds into US dollars on the date of receipt generally should not recognise any exchange gain or loss.
A US Holder who does not convert the British pounds into US dollars on the date of receipt generally will have a tax basis in the British pounds equal to their US dollar value on such date.
Foreign currency gain or loss, if any, recognised by the US Holder on a subsequent conversion or other disposition of the British pounds generally will be US source ordinary income or loss.
Dividends paid by BT to a US Holder will not be eligible for the US dividends received deduction that may otherwise be available to corporate shareholders.
For purposes of calculating the foreign tax credit limitation, dividends paid on the ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as income from sources outside the United States and generally will constitute passive income or, for certain Holders, financial services income for tax years beginning before 1 January 2007, and for tax years beginning after 31 December 2006, will be treated as passive category income or general category income.
The rules relating to the determination of the foreign tax credit are very complex.
US Holders who do not elect to claim a credit with respect to any foreign taxes paid in a given taxable year may instead claim a deduction for foreign taxes paid.
A deduction does not reduce US federal income tax on a dollar for dollar basis like a tax credit.
The deduction, however, is not subject to the limitations applicable to foreign credits.
There will be no right to any UK tax credit or to any payment from HMRC in respect of any tax credit on dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
Certain US Holders including individuals are eligible for reduced rates of US federal income tax currently at a maximum rate of 15% in respect of qualied dividend income received in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2009.
For this purpose, qualied dividend income generally includes dividends paid by a non-US corporation if, among other things, the US Holders meet certain minimum holding periods and the non-US corporation satisfies certain requirements, including that either i the shares or ADSs with respect to which the dividend has been paid are readily tradeable on an established securities market in the United States, or ii the non-US corporation is eligible for the benets of a comprehensive US income tax treaty such as the Convention which provides for the exchange of information.
BT currently believes that dividends paid with respect to its ordinary shares and ADSs should constitute qualied dividend income for US federal income tax purposes.
Each individual US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult his own tax advisor regarding the availability to him of the reduced dividend tax rate in light of his own particular situation and regarding the computations of his foreign tax credit limitation with respect to any qualied dividend income paid by BT to him, as applicable.
Taxation of capital gains Unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is resident in or ordinarily resident for United Kingdom tax purposes in the United Kingdom or unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs carries on a trade, profession, or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch, agency, or permanent establishment in the UK, and the ordinary shares and or ADSs have been used, held, or acquired for purposes of that trade, the holder should not be liable for UK tax on capital gains on a disposal of ordinary shares and or ADSs.
A US Holder who is an individual and who has ceased to be resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom on or after 17 March 1998 or who falls to be regarded as resident outside the United Kingdom for the purposes of any double tax treaty Treaty non-resident on or after 16 March 2005 and continues to not be resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom or continues to be Treaty non-resident for a period of less than five years of assessment and who disposes of his ordinary shares or ADSs during that period may also be liable on his return to the United Kingdom to United Kingdom tax on capital gains, subject to any available exemption or relief, even though he is not resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom or is Treaty non-resident at the time of disposal.
For US federal income tax purposes, a US Holder generally will recognise capital gain or loss on the sale, exchange or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs in an amount equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised on the disposition and the US Holders adjusted tax basis determined in US dollars in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Such gain or loss generally will be US source gain or loss, and will be treated as long-term capital gain or loss if the ordinary shares have been held for more than one year at the time of disposition.
Long-term capital gains recognised by an individual US Holder generally are subject to US federal income tax at preferential rates.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
Passive foreign investment company status A non-US corporation will be classied as a Passive Foreign Investment Company for US federal income tax purposes a PFIC for any taxable year if at least 75% of its gross income consists of passive income or at least 50% of the average value of its assets consist of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income.
BT currently believes that it did not qualify as a PFIC for the taxable year ending 31 March 2006.
If BT were to become a PFIC for any taxable year, US Holders would suffer adverse tax consequences.
These consequences may include having gains realised on the disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs treated as ordinary income rather than capital gains and being subject to punitive interest charges on certain dividends and on the proceeds of the sale or other disposition of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Furthermore, dividends paid by BT would not be qualied dividend income which may be eligible for reduced rates of taxation as described above.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the potential application of the PFIC rules to BT.
Additional information for shareholders BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 141 Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:20 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 2108899548 US information reporting and backup withholding Dividends paid on and proceeds received from the sale, exchange or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject to information reporting to the IRS and backup withholding at a current rate of 28% which rate may be subject to change.
Certain exempt recipients such as corporations are not subject to these information reporting requirements.
Backup withholding will not apply, however, to a US Holder who provides a correct taxpayer identication number or certicate of foreign status and makes any other required certication or who is otherwise exempt.
Persons that are United States persons for US federal income tax purposes who are required to establish their exempt status generally must furnish IRS Form W-9 Request for Taxpayer Identication Number and Certication.
Holders that are not United States persons for US federal income tax purposes generally will not be subject to US information reporting or backup withholding.
However, such holders may be required to provide certication of non-US status in connection with payments received in the United States or through certain US-related financial intermediaries.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld as backup withholding may be credited against a holdersUS federal income tax liability.
A holder may obtain a refund of any excess amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by timely ling the appropriate claim for refund with the IRS and furnishing any required information.
UK stamp duty A transfer of an ordinary share will generally be subject to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at 0.5% of the amount or value of any consideration provided rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5.
SDRT is generally the liability of the purchaser.
It is customarily also the purchaser who pays UK stamp duty.
A transfer of an ordinary share to, or to a nominee or agent of, a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts gives rise to a 1.5% charge to stamp duty or SDRT of either the amount of the consideration provided or the value of the share issued rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of an ADS assuming it is not registered in the UK, provided that the transfer documents are executed and always retained outside the UK.
Transfers of ordinary shares into CREST will generally not be subject to stamp duty or SDRT unless such a transfer is made for a consideration in money or moneys worth, in which case a liability to SDRT will arise, usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the consideration.
Paperless transfers of ordinary shares within CREST are generally liable to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the consideration.
CREST is obliged to collect SDRT from the purchaser of the shares on relevant transactions settled within the system.
UK inheritance and gift taxes in connection with ordinary shares and or ADSs The rules and scope of domicile are complex and action should not be taken without advice specic to the individuals circumstances.
A lifetime gift or a transfer on death of ordinary shares and or ADSs by an individual holder, who is US domiciled for the purposes of the UK US Estate and Gift Tax Convention and who is not a UK national as dened in the Convention will not generally be subject to UK inheritance tax if the gift is subject to US federal gift or US estate tax unless the tax is not paid.
LIMITATIONS AFFECTING SECURITY HOLDERS There are no limitations under the laws of the United Kingdom restricting the right of non-residents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY All reports and other information that BT les with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC may be inspected at the SECs public reference facilities at Room 1580, 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC, 20549, USA.
These reports may be accessed via the SECs website at www.
gov PUBLICATIONS BT produces a series of reports on the companys financial, economic, compliance, social and environmental performance.
Most of these reports as well as the EAB Annual Report on BTs compliance with the Undertakings, are available to shareholders on request and can be accessed on the internet at www.
com aboutbt More detailed disclosures on BTs implementation of social, ethical and environmental policies and procedures are available online through our fully and independently veried social and environment report at www.
com betterworld Document Publication date Annual Review and Notice of Meeting May Annual Report and Form 20-F May Social and Environment Report May EAB Annual Report May Quarterly results releases July, November, February and May Current Cost Financial Statements September Statement of Business Practice July 2004 For printed copies, when available, contact the Shareholder Helpline on Freefone 0808 100 4141 or, alternatively, contact the Registrar in the UK, at the address on page 143.
142 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Additional information for shareholders Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:21 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 870024719 ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION Shareholders can now choose to receive their shareholder documents electronically rather than by post.
Shareholders may elect to receive documents in this way by going to www.
com signup and following the online instructions, or by calling the Shareholder Helpline.
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION BT is committed to communicating openly with each of its stakeholder audiences in the manner most appropriate to their requirements.
All investors can visit our website at www.
com sharesandperformance for more information about BT.
There are direct links from this page to sites providing information particularly tailored for shareholders, institutional investors and analysts, industry analysts and journalists.
An electronic copy of this document is available at www.
com annualreport Private shareholders If private shareholders have any enquiries about their shareholding, they should contact the Registrar the address can be found below.
Lloyds TSB Registrars maintain BT Groups share register and the separate BT Group EasyShare register.
They also provide a Shareholder Helpline service on Freefone 0808 100 4141.
Institutional investors and analysts Institutional investors and equity research analysts may contact Investor Relations on: Tel 020 7356 4909 Fax 020 7356 5270 e-mail: investorrelations@bt.
com Industry analysts may contact: Tel 020 7356 5631 Fax 01332 577434 e-mail: industryenquiry@bt.
co. uk The Registrar ADR Depositary Lloyds TSB Registrars 2450 JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA The Causeway PO Box 3408 Worthing, West Sussex South Hackensack, NJ 07606-3408 BN99 6DA United States United Kingdom Tel 1 800 634 8366 toll free Website: or 1 201 680 6630 from outside the USA www.
co. uk e-mail: jpmorganadr@mellon.
com General enquiries BT Group plc BT Centre 81 Newgate Street London EC1A 7AJ United Kingdom Tel 020 7356 5000 Fax 020 7356 5520 From overseas: Tel 44 20 7356 5000 Fax 44 20 7356 5520 A full list of BT contacts and an electronic feedback facility is available at www.
com talk Additional information for shareholders BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 143 Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:21 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -865074282 CROSS REFERENCE TO FORM 20-F The information in this document that is referred to in the following table shall be deemed to be led with the Securities and Exchange Commission for all purposes: Required Item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page 1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisors Not applicable 2 Offer statistics and expected timetable Not applicable 3 Key information 3A Selected financial data Selected financial data 22 Additional information for shareholders Exchange rates 137 3B Capitalisation and indebtedness Not applicable 3C Reasons for the offer and use of proceeds Not applicable 3D Risk factors Business review Group risk factors 20 4 Information on the company 4A History and development of the company Contents page Business review Introduction 7 How BT operates 7 Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions and disposals prior to the 2006 financial year 13 Acquisitions and disposals in the 2006 financial year 13 Financial review Capital expenditure 38 Acquisitions 38 4B Business overview Business review 6 Financial review Line of business results 31 Our commitment to society 19 Operational statistics 131 Additional information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 133 4C Organisational structure Business review Introduction 7 Subsidiary undertakings and associate 127 4D Property, plants and equipment Business review Resources Property 18 Financial statistics 129 5 Operating and financial review and prospects 5A Operating results Financial review 26 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies 65 Additional information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 133 5B Liquidity and capital resources Financial review 26 Additional information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 133 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the financial statements Loans and other borrowings 92 Financial commitments and contingent liabilities 97 Financial instruments and risk management 105 5C Research and development, patents and licences Business review Pursue profitable growth in new wave markets Build on our networked IT services capability 8 Research and development and IT support 18 Financial statistics 129 5D Trend information Financial review 26 Additional information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 133 5E Off-balance sheet arrangements Financial review Off-balance sheet arrangements 37 144 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Cross reference to Form 20-F Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:22 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -351297947 Required Item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page 5F Tabular disclosure of contractual obligations Financial review Capital resources 37 6 Directors, senior management and employees 6A Directors and senior management Board of directors and Operating Committee 40 6B Compensation Report on directors remuneration 50 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the financial statements Retirement benefit plans 98 Share based payment 101 6C Board practices Board of directors and Operating Committee 40 Report of the directors The Board Directors 42 Report on directors remuneration 50 6D Employees Financial review Group results 29 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the financial statements Employees 101 Operational statistics 131 6E Share ownership Report on directors remuneration 50 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the financial statements Share based payment 101 7 Major shareholders and related party transactions 7A Major shareholders Report of the directors Substantial shareholdings 44 Additional information for shareholders Analysis of shareholdings 135 7B Related party transactions Report of the directors The Board Interest of management in certain transactions 44 Report on directors remuneration 50 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the financial statements Related party transactions 97 7C Interests of experts and counsel Not applicable 8 Financial information 8A Consolidated statements and other financial information See Item 18 below.
Business review Legal proceedings 17 Financial review Dividends 35 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the financial statements Financial commitments and contingent liabilities 97 Additional information for shareholders Dividends 135 Dividend investment plan 136 Memorandum and Articles of Association Articles Dividends 138 8B significant changes Financial review Capital resources 37 9 The offer and listing 9A Offer and listing details Additional information for shareholders Share and ADS prices 134 9B Plan of distribution Not applicable 9C Markets Additional information for shareholders Listings 134 9D Selling shareholders Not applicable 9E Dilution Not applicable 9F Expenses of the issue Not applicable Cross reference to Form 20-F BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 145 Filename: 824560 06.3d Time: 14:35:23 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -1265463143 Required Item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page 10 Additional information 10A Share capital Not applicable 10B Memorandum and articles of association Additional information for shareholders Memorandum and Articles of Association 137 10C Material contracts Additional information for shareholders Material contracts 140 10D Exchange controls Additional information for shareholders Limitations affecting security holders 142 10E Taxation Additional information for shareholders Taxation US Holders 140 10F Dividends and paying agents Not applicable 10G Statement by experts Not applicable 10H Documents on display Additional information for shareholders Documents on display 142 10I Subsidiary information Not applicable 11 Quantitative and qualitative Financial review disclosures about market risk Treasury policy 36 Financial risk management 37 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the financial statements Accounting Policies Financial instruments 68 Financial instruments and risk management 105 12 Description of securities other than equity securities Not applicable 13 Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies Not applicable 14 Material modications to the rights of security holders Not applicable and use of proceeds 15 Controls and procedures Report of the directors US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 46 16A Audit committee financial expert Report of the directors US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 46 16B Code of ethics Report of the directors US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 46 16C Principal accountants fees and services Consolidated financial statements Notes to the financial statements Audit services 104 Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee 48 16E Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and Additional information for shareholders afliated purchasers Share buy back 137 17 Financial statements Not applicable 18 Financial statements Report of the independent auditors 63 Consolidated financial statements 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 114 Quarterly analysis of revenue and profit 128 146 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Cross reference to Form 20-F
