Principal interests in Group undertakings Subsidiary undertakings Group interest in equity capital Country of incorporation per cent Nature of business Welding, cutting and automation Europe ESAB AB Sweden 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Vamberk s. r. o. Czech Republic 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Cutting Systems GmbH Germany 100 Oxy-fuel, plasma, laser and water jet cutting ESAB Mor Kft Hungary 100 Welding consumables ESAB Sp z. o. o. Poland 100 Welding consumables ESAB Saldatura S. p. A. Italy 100 Welding consumables and equipment North America 4 The ESAB Group Inc. USA 100 Welding consumables and equipment South America ESAB SA Industria e Comercio Brazil 100 Welding consumables and equipment Conarco Alambres y Soldaduras S. A. Argentina 100 Welding consumables and equipment Asia Pacific ESAB Asia Pacific Pte Limited Singapore 100 Welding consumables and equipment HD Engineering Limited Hong Kong 100 Drilling machines, components and accessories 5 ESAB Engineering Services Limited India 75 Research and development Air and gas handling Europe Howden UK Limited Northern Ireland 100 Industrial and utility fans and heat exchangers 6 Howden France SA France 100 Industrial fans Howden BC Compressors SA France 100 Compressors 6 Howden Netherlands BV Netherlands 100 Industrial fans 6 Howden Turbowerke GmbH Germany 100 Industrial fans Howden Ventilatoren GmbH Germany 100 Industrial and utility fans 6 Howden Denmark A S Denmark 100 Industrial and utility fans Howden Spain SL Spain 100 Heat exchangers 7 Howden Compressors Limited Scotland 100 Screw compressors North America 4 Howden Buffalo Inc. USA 100 Industrial and utility fans South America Howden South America Ventiladores E Compressores Industria Comercio Ltda Brazil 100 Industrial fans and heat exchangers Asia Pacific Howden Hua Engineering Co Limited China 70 Industrial and utility fans and heat exchangers Howden Australia Pty Limited Australia 100 Industrial and utility fans and heat exchangers South Africa Howden Africa Holdings Limited South Africa 55 Industrial and utility fans, heat exchangers, gas cleaning equipment, pumps and cooling systems Associated undertakings ESAB SeAH Corporation South Korea 50 Welding consumables ESAB India Limited India 38 Welding consumables and equipment Pump Brands Pty Limited South Africa 42 Pumps and related products 1 Each of the associated undertakings has only one class of capital.
2 The principal country of operation is the same as the country of incorporation.
3 The Group undertakings above are all held by subsidiary undertakings of the Company.
A full list of Group undertakings will be annexed to the Companys next annual return.
4 The ESAB Group Inc. and Howden Buffalo Inc. are both wholly owned subsidiaries of Anderson Group Inc. the holding company of the Groups North America businesses.
5 ESAB Engineering Services Limited is 75% owned by a subsidiary undertaking of the Company and 25% owned by an associated undertaking.
6 Howden France SA was formerly known as Howden Sirocco SA, Howden Netherlands BV was formerly known as Howden BV, Howden Turbowerke GmbH was formerly known as Turbowerke Meissen Howden GmbH and Howden Denmark A S was formerly known as Howden Power A S. 7 During the year the remaining 51% of Howden Compressors Limited was acquired and consequently it is now a 100% owned subsidiary.
