Audit opinion group financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Charter plc We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information We have audited the group financial statements of Charter plc for the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the Consolidated us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group income statement, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also and the related notes.
These group financial statements have been evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
in the group financial statements.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial Opinion statements of Charter plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 In our opinion: and on the information in the Remuneration report that is described the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance as having been audited.
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors groups affairs as at 31 December 2006 and of its profit and cash flows The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the for the year then ended: group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the group financial statements have been properly prepared in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Regulation: and Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the group financial statements.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members  LLP as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or London assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 14 March 2007 whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where Notes: expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The maintenance and integrity of the Charter plc website is the We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report on the website.
is consistent with the group financial statements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation the Business and financial review that is cross referred from the Business in other jurisdictions.
review section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, the Business and financial review, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report, the Corporate governance statement and the other information listed on the contents page of the Annual Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
