Audit opinion parent company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Charter plc We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information We have audited the parent company financial statements of Charter plc and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the Balance us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Sheet and the related notes.
These parent company financial statements company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused We have also audited the information in the Remuneration report that by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also is described as having been audited.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration We have reported separately on the group financial statements report to be audited.
of Charter plc for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, In our opinion: the Remuneration report and the parent company financial statements the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2006: are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as parent company financial statements.
a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and  LLP for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this London report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 14 March 2007 agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Notes: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial i.
The maintenance and integrity of the Charter plc website is the statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent company on the website.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Business and financial ii.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and review that is cross referred from the Business review section of the dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, the Business and financial review, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report, the Corporate governance statement and the other information listed on the contents page of the Annual Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
