SELF INSURANCE The Group is self insured through its captive insurance company CHG Insurance Limited, based in Guernsey.
The Group has been self insured for the first 2.5 million of material damage and business interruption cover, subject to a maximum liability of 3.5 million in any one year, since 31 October 2001.
Insurance cover in respect of this risk at a level over that disclosed here is placed with external insurers.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Trading transactions There are no trading activities between the Group and its associate.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information on the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 34.
The directors of Chemring Group PLC had no material transactions with the Company during the year other than as a result of service agreements.
The remuneration of directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee having regard to the performance of individuals and the market trends.
EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS This is the first year that the Group has presented its consolidated financial statements under IFRS.
The last financial statements under UK GAAP were for the year ended 31 October 2005.
As the date for transition to IFRS was 1 November 2004, comparative financial information presented in these financial statements has been re-presented under IFRS.
The Group has taken advantage of the following exemptions as permitted under IFRS1 First Time Adoption of IFRS: Business combinations occurring before the date of transition on 1 November 2004 have not been restated.
Only equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002 that vest after the effective date of IFRS2 on 1 January 2005 have been valued.
The actuarial gains and losses approach to valuation of the defined benefit plans has not been applied retrospectively.
The initial recognition of the defined benefit schemes deficits is recorded on the face of the Group Balance Sheet as at 1 November 2004 date of transition.
The Group has not separately disclosed the amount of cumulative translation differences for its overseas operations included within retained earnings at 1 November 2004.
Tangible assets have continued to be reported on the basis of depreciated historical cost, as under UK GAAP.
P 81 Comparative information for financial instruments remain under UK GAAP IAS39 exemption not to restate comparatives.
