CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Independent Auditors Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements for the year ended 31 October 2006 financial statements.
The information given in the INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Directors Report includes that specific information TO THE MEMBERS OF CHEMRING presented in the Statement by the Chairman, the Review by GROUP PLC the Chief Executive and the Review by the Finance We have audited the parent company financial statements of Director that is cross referred from the Review of the year Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2006 and results section of the Directors Report.
which comprise the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the Reconcilation of In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Movements in Shareholders Funds and the related Notes Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we 1 to 11.
These parent company financial statements have have not received all the information and explanations we been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and other transactions is We have reported separately on the Group financial not disclosed.
statements of Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2006 and on the information in the Directors We read the other information contained in the annual Remuneration Report that is described as having been report as described in the contents section and consider audited.
whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act material inconsistencies with the parent company financial 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any might state to the Companys members those matters we are further information outside the annual report.
required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Basis of audit opinion not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, formed.
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the individual company financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent individual company financial statements, and of whether the company financial statements in accordance with applicable accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and statements are free from material misstatement, whether regulatory requirements and International Standards on caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming Auditing UK and Ireland.
our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and statements.
whether the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company P 86 FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 October 2006: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Southampton, United Kingdom 23 January 2007 P 87
