FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 Notes to the Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 October 2006 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Chemring Group PLC is a company incorporated in England and Wales under registration number 86662.
The address of the registered office is Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, Whiteley, Fareham, Hampshire PO15 7AF.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 4 and in the Directors Report on pages 24 to 26.
These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of Chemring Group PLC and its subsidiaries the Group.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policy set out in Note 2 Accounting Policies.
At the date of presentation of these financial statements the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the related amendment to IAS1 on capital disclosures effective from 1 January 2007.
IFRS7 and this amendment to IAS1 introduce new disclosures of information about financial instruments and capital management.
The impact of these changes to the Group is that additional disclosures will be required concerning the sensitivity analysis to market risk and the management of capital.
These will be applied for the year ending 31 October 2008.
IFRIC4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease effective from 1 January 2007.
IFRIC4 requires determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease to be based on the substance of the arrangement.
Management is currently assessing the impact of IFRIC4 on the Groups operations.
IFRIC6 Liabilities Arising from Participating in a Specific Market:Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment effective from 1 December 2005.
Management is currently assessing the impact of IFRIC6 on the Groups operations.
IFRIC11 provides guidance on whether share-based payment arrangements, in which suppliers of goods or services of an entity are provided with equity instruments of the entitys parent should be accounted for as cash-settled or equity-settled in the entitys financial statements.
These interpretations will be applied for the period ending 31 October 2008.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union.
These will be those IAS, IFRS and related Interpretations Standing Interpretations Committee SIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, subsequent amendments to those standards and related interpretations, future standards and related interpretations issued or adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that have been endorsed by the European Commission collectively referred to as IFRS.
These are subject to ongoing review and endorsement by the European Commission or possible amendment by interpretive guidance from the IASB and the IFRIC and are therefore still subject to change.
Comparative data for 2005 has been restated to conform to the new accounting policies and where appropriate these new policies reflect the exemptions from restating certain financial information as permitted under IFRS1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Note 36 Explanation of Transition to IFRS details the exemptions taken by the Group.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The disclosures required by IFRS1 concerning the transition from previously reported UK GAAP to IFRS are given in Note 36.
Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of certain properties and financial instruments.
