FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 Notes to the Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 October 2006 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Chemring Group PLC is a company incorporated in England and Wales under registration number 86662.
The address of the registered office is Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, Whiteley, Fareham, Hampshire PO15 7AF.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 4 and in the Directors Report on pages 24 to 26.
These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of Chemring Group PLC and its subsidiaries the Group.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policy set out in Note 2 Accounting Policies.
At the date of presentation of these financial statements the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the related amendment to IAS1 on capital disclosures effective from 1 January 2007.
IFRS7 and this amendment to IAS1 introduce new disclosures of information about financial instruments and capital management.
The impact of these changes to the Group is that additional disclosures will be required concerning the sensitivity analysis to market risk and the management of capital.
These will be applied for the year ending 31 October 2008.
IFRIC4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease effective from 1 January 2007.
IFRIC4 requires determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease to be based on the substance of the arrangement.
Management is currently assessing the impact of IFRIC4 on the Groups operations.
IFRIC6 Liabilities Arising from Participating in a Specific Market:Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment effective from 1 December 2005.
Management is currently assessing the impact of IFRIC6 on the Groups operations.
IFRIC11 provides guidance on whether share-based payment arrangements, in which suppliers of goods or services of an entity are provided with equity instruments of the entitys parent should be accounted for as cash-settled or equity-settled in the entitys financial statements.
These interpretations will be applied for the period ending 31 October 2008.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union.
These will be those IAS, IFRS and related Interpretations Standing Interpretations Committee SIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, subsequent amendments to those standards and related interpretations, future standards and related interpretations issued or adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that have been endorsed by the European Commission collectively referred to as IFRS.
These are subject to ongoing review and endorsement by the European Commission or possible amendment by interpretive guidance from the IASB and the IFRIC and are therefore still subject to change.
Comparative data for 2005 has been restated to conform to the new accounting policies and where appropriate these new policies reflect the exemptions from restating certain financial information as permitted under IFRS1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Note 36 Explanation of Transition to IFRS details the exemptions taken by the Group.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The disclosures required by IFRS1 concerning the transition from previously reported UK GAAP to IFRS are given in Note 36.
Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of certain properties and financial instruments.
P 47 CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Notes to the Group Financial Statements - continued 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES - continued Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and all of its subsidiaries.
A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated from the date on which control passes to the Group and the results of disposed subsidiaries are consolidated up to the date on which control passes from the Group.
All companies within the Group make up their financial statements to the same date.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated before the share of results of associates and before finance expense.
Operating profit excludes the results of discontinued operations.
Revenue recognition Sales comprise the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for deliveries made, work completed or services rendered during the year, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Sales are recognised when title passes, or when the right to consideration, in exchange for performance, has been completed.
For bill and hold arrangements revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards are transferred to the customer, typically on formal acceptance.
An appropriate proportion of total long term contract value, based on the fair value of work performed, is included in revenue and an appropriate level of profit is taken based the percentage completion method when the final outcome can be reliably assessed.
Provision is made in full for foreseeable losses as soon as they are identified.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Acquisitions On acquisition of a subsidiary, the cost is measured as the fair value of the consideration given plus any directly attributable costs.
The assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary that meet the IFRS3 Business Combinations recognition criteria are measured at the fair value at the date of acquisition.
Where cost exceeds fair value of the net assets acquired the difference is recorded as goodwill.
Where the fair value of the net assets exceeds the cost, the difference is recorded directly in the income statement.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed where necessary to be consistent with those of the Group.
Intangible assets Goodwill The purchased goodwill of the Group is regarded as having an indefinite useful economic life and, in accordance with IAS36 Impairment of Assets, is not amortised but is subject to annual tests for impairment.
In reviewing the carrying value of goodwill of the various businesses the Board has considered the separate plans and cash flows of these businesses consistent with the requirements of IAS36 and is satisfied that these demonstrate that no impairment has occurred.
Goodwill arising on acquisition before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
For acquisitions after 1 November 2004 the Group recognises separately from goodwill intangible assets that are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights and whose fair value can be measured reliably.
These intangible assets have finite lives and are amortised on a straight-line basis over those lives, averaging ten years.
Research and development expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, where it meets certain criteria given below, is capitalised on a straight line basis over typically three years from the date commercial production commences.
Development costs not meeting the criteria for capitalisation are expensed as incurred.
P 48 FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 An intangible asset is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: the development costs are separately identifiable: the development costs can be measured reliably: management are satisfied as to the ultimate technical and commercial viability of the project: and it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefits.
Patents and trademarks Patents and trademarks are measured initially at purchase cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Property, plant and equipment Other than revalued land and buildings, property, plant and equipment are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
On other assets depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write down their cost or valuation to their estimated residual values by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives, which are considered to be: Freehold buildings - up to 50 years Leasehold buildings - the period of the lease Plant and equipment - 10 years Impairment of non-current assets Assets that have indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually.
Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
To the extent that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount an impairment loss is recorded for the difference as an expense in the income statement.
The recoverable amount used for impairment testing is the higher of the value in use and its fair value less costs of disposal.
For the purpose of impairment testing assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
These items are so classified if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost represents materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads and is determined using the first-in first-out FIFO method.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provision is made for slow moving, obsolete and defective items where appropriate.
Tax The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items of income that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary P 49 CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Notes to the Group Financial Statements - continued 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES - continued differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Special capital reserve The special capital reserve was created as part of a capital reduction scheme involving the cancellation of the share premium account which was approved by the Court in 1986 and is in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the profit or loss for the period.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts and options which are accounted for as derivative financial instruments see below for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An P 50 equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 Bank borrowings Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, and direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis to the Income Statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of interest rate and foreign currency transactions, and it uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to these transactional risks.
The Group uses interest rate swap contracts and foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce these exposures and does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
As IAS32 and IAS39 are only applied from 1 November 2005, as permitted, the comparative information to 31 October 2005 for derivative financial instruments is presented under UK GAAP FRS13.
Under UK GAAP changes in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts were recognised through the Income Statement.
However, the difference between fair value and book value of the Groups interest rate swaps was not recognised.
From 1 November 2005, under IFRS, derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at the date the derivative contract is entered into and are revalued at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method by which any gain or loss is recognised depends on whether the instrument is designated a hedging instrument or not.
To be designated as a hedging instrument the instrument must be documented as such at inception and must be assessed at inception and on an ongoing basis to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Hedge accounting principles are used for interest rate swaps and net investment hedges where movements in fair value are held in equity until such time as the underlying amounts of the contract mature.
At maturity the amounts held in equity will be recycled to the Income Statement.
Changes in fair value of any ineffective portion of net investment hedges and interest rate swaps are recognised in the Income Statement immediately.
Where derivatives do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting the changes in fair value are immediately recognised in the Income Statement.
The Group does not apply hedge accounting to the foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate against currency fluctuations.
Accordingly, gains and losses arising from measuring the contracts at fair value are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Embedded derivatives that are not closely related to the host contract are treated as separate derivatives, with unrealised gains and losses reported in the Income Statement.
Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside of the profit or loss and presented in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense SORIE.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Leased assets Where the Group enters into a lease which entails taking substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
The asset is recorded in the Balance Sheet as property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life and the lease term.
Future instalments under such leases, net of finance charges, are P 51 CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Notes to the Group Financial Statements - continued 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES - continued included in creditors.
The finance element of the instalments is charged to the Income Statement at a constant rate of charge on the remaining balance of the obligation.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental charges are taken to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Share-based compensation The Group operates equity settled and cash settled share-based compensation schemes.
For grants made under the Groups share-based compensation schemes, the fair value is remeasured at each balance sheet date with changes in the fair value recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest.
The valuation of the options utilises a methodology based on the Black-Scholes model.
For equity settled share-based grants, the total amount recognised is based on the fair value of the equity instrument measured at the date the award is made.
At each balance sheet date the impact of any revision to vesting estimates is recognised in the Income Statement over the vesting period.
Proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium.
For cash settled share-based grants, the total amount recognised is based on the fair value of the liability incurred.
The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date with changes in the fair value recognised in the income statement for the period.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty When applying the Groups accounting policies, management must make assumptions and estimates concerning the future that affect the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the amounts of revenue and expenses recognised during the accounting period.
Such assumptions and estimates are based upon factors such as historical experience, the observance of trends in the industries in which the Group operates, and information available from the Groups customers and other outside sources.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year include: Goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Intangible assets acquired in business combinations Under IFRS3 Business Combinations, it is necessary to separately identify and value any acquired intangible assets.
In order to ascertain the values of the separate assets it is necessary for management to estimate the future cash flows attributable to the assets and estimate their useful economic lives.
Pensions The liability recognised in relation to retirement benefit obligations is dependent on a number of assumptions, including discount rate, mortality rate, salary increases and inflation.
Any change in these assumptions would change the amount recognised on the Balance Sheet see Note 33.
Insurance claim The Group is pursuing a claim against its former insurance brokers, concerning the insurance cover for Kilgore Flares Company LLC and the brokers subsequent handling of a claim following a manufacturing incident at Kilgore Flares Company LLC on 18 April 2001.
During the year the Group incurred costs of 121,000 2005: 147,000 in relation to the claim, which were written off.
The balance of the claim that had not been recovered from the Groups insurance brokers at the year end was 2,595,000 2005: 2,796,000, which has been included within other debtors.
Foreign exchange movements of 201,000 P 52 2005: 107,000 have been recognised through the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
