CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Parent Company Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 October 2006 CHEMRING GROUP PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
The particular accounting policies adopted are described below.
All accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the year.
Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of property in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards UK GAAP.
Changes in accounting policies The Company has adopted FRS17 Retirement Benefits, FRS20 Share-based Payment, FRS21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date and FRS26 Financial Instruments Measurement.
The adoption of these standards represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been restated accordingly, except where the exemption to restate comparatives has been taken.
Details of the effect of the prior years adjustments are given in Note 9.
Revenue recognition Sales comprise the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for deliveries made, work completed or services rendered during the year, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Sales are recognised when title passes, or when the right to consideration, in exchange for performance, has been completed.
For bill and hold arrangements revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards are transferred to the customer, typically on formal acceptance.
An appropriate proportion of total long term contract value, based on the fair value of work performed, is included in revenue and an appropriate level of profit is taken based on the percentage completion method when the final outcome can be reliably assessed.
Provision is made in full for foreseeable losses as soon as they are identified.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to its net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Tangible fixed assets Other than revalued land and buildings, property, plant and equipment are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
On other assets depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write down their cost or valuation to their estimated residual values by equal instalments over their estimated economic useful lives, which are considered to be: Freehold buildings - up to 50 years Leasehold buildings - the period of the lease Plant and equipment - 10 years Investment in Group undertakings Investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Operating leases Operating lease rental charges are taken to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Provisions A provision is recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
Long-term liabilities and provisions are discounted when the impact is material.
Current tax Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided for at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantially enacted, by the balance sheet date.
P 88 FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full at the anticipated tax rates on differences arising from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are discounted.
Special capital reserve The special capital reserve was created as part of a capital reduction scheme involving the cancellation of the share premium account which was approved by the Court in 1986 and is in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Foreign currencies The functional currency of the Company is sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Pensions The Company operates defined benefit pension schemes.
The defined benefit schemes are multi-employer schemes including employees of other Group companies.
It is not considered possible to allocate scheme assets and liabilities between various companies and accordingly schemes are accounted for as though they were defined contribution schemes.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account is the contribution payable in the year.
Differences between amounts payable and actually paid are shown as accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet.
The directors do not believe the FRS17 deficit for the Group is significantly different from the IAS19 deficit reported in Note 33 to the Chemring Group PLC accounts.
Share-based compensation For grants made under the Companys share-based remuneration schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded at the time of grant are charged to the profit and loss account.
The valuation of the options utilises a methodology based on the Black-Scholes model.
