Glossary of Terms Annualised net rents are gross rents as at reporting date plus, where rent Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an reviews are outstanding, any increases to estimated rental value as interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash determined by the Groups external valuers, less any ground rents payable consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups external under head leases.
Capital allowances deferred tax provision.
In accordance with IAS 12, In accordance with usual practice, the Groups external valuers report full provision has been made for the deferred tax arising on the benefit of valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, capital allowances claimed to date.
However, in the Groups experience the including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
liabilities in respect of capital allowances provided are unlikely to crystallise in Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under head practice and are therefore excluded when arriving at EPRA NAV.
Development construction cost is the total cost of construction of a Reversion is the increase in rent estimated by the Groups external valuers, project to completion, excluding site values and finance costs.
where the passing rent is below the current estimated rental value.
The EPRA earnings is the profit after taxation excluding gains on asset disposals increases to rent arise on rent reviews, letting of vacant space and expiry and revaluations and their related taxation, intangible asset movements and of rent free periods.
the capital allowance effects of IAS 12 where applicable, less taxation arising Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise on these items.
to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
EPRA net assets EPRA NAV are the balance sheet net assets plus the Securitisation is a financing technique where the income stream of an asset surplus on trading properties, excluding fair value adjustments for debt is used to service the interest and principal repayments on the relevant and related derivatives, deferred taxation on revaluations and capital debt instruments.
allowances and the effect of those shares potentially issuable under employee share schemes.
Under accounting rules the balance sheet value of lease incentives given to tenants is deducted from property EPRA net assets per share is EPRA net assets divided by the diluted number valuation and shown as a debtor.
The incentive is amortised through the profit of shares at the period end.
EPRA NNNAV is the EPRA NAV less fair value adjustments for debt and Total return return on shareholders equity is the growth in EPRA NAV per derivatives and the deferred taxation on revaluations and capital allowances.
share plus dividends paid expressed as a percentage of EPRA NAV per share Estimated rental value ERV is the Groups external valuers opinion as at the beginning of the period.
It may be stated before net refinancing to the open market rent, which on the date of valuation, could reasonably charges or other exceptional items.
be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
Underlying earnings per share EPS consists of EPRA earnings with Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary additional Company adjustments to reverse the effects of refinancing charges and prior year tax items divided by the weighted average number of shares in yield and represents the return a property will produce based upon the timing of the income received.
In accordance with usual practice, the issue during the period.
equivalent yields as determined by the Groups external valuers assume Underlying profit before tax is the profit for the period before taxation after rent received annually in arrears and on gross values including prospective excluding amortisation of intangible and impairment charges, revaluation purchasers costs.
gains on properties, investments and property derivatives, and gains on Group is The British Land Company PLC and its subsidiaries and excludes its disposal of properties and other investments.
share of funds and joint ventures.
Vacancy rate is the estimated rental value of vacant properties expressed Initial yield is the annualised net rents generated by the portfolio expressed as a percentage of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding as a percentage of the portfolio valuation, excluding development properties.
Interest cover is the number of times Group net interest payable is covered Weighted average debt maturity.
Each tranche of Group debt is multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity and the result is divided by total Group by underlying profit before interest and taxation.
debt in issue at the period end.
IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd, a Company that produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
Weighted average interest rate is the Group loan interest and derivative costs per annum at the period end, divided by total Group debt in issue at the Loan to value LTV is the ratio of net debt excluding fair value adjustments period end.
for debt and derivatives, to the aggregate value of properties including the surplus of the open market value over the book value of trading properties, Weighted average lease term is the average lease term remaining to expiry investments in joint ventures and funds and other investments.
across the portfolio weighted by rental income.
This is also disclosed assuming all break clauses are exercised at the earliest date, as stated.
Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period after payment Excludes short-term licences and residential leases.
of ground rents and net property outgoings.
Net rental income will differ from annualised net rents and passing rent due to the effects of income from rent reviews, net property outgoings and accounting adjustments SIC 15 for fixed and minimum guaranteed rent reviews and lease incentives.
The British Land Company PLC 123 Head Office and Registered Office 10 Cornwall Terrace Regents Park London NW1 4QP Telephone 44 0 207 486 4466 Fax 44 0 207 935 5552 www.
com Designed by: CDT Design Copywriting by: Tim Shackleton Printed by: Fulmar Colour Printed on Hannoart Silk, Totally Chlorine Free TCF giving zero Absorbable Organo Halogens AOX, manufactured with pulp from sustainable forests.
RECYCLABLE All portraits National Portrait Gallery, London, except the following: L. Frank Baum The Library of Congress : James Keir Hardie collection NPG: unknown : Sigmund Freud The Freud Museum, London Cover image: The Royal Collection 2006, Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II 124 The British Land Company PLC Front and back cover Ramsgate Sands: Life at the Seaside, 1852-4 by William Powell Frith William Powell Friths Ramsgate Sands was first shown in 1854.
At the Private View of that years Royal Academy Exhibition, Queen Victoria bought the newly completed painting for 1,000 guineas.
At this time family holidays were still the preserve of the middle classes but only women and children plus assorted maids and elderly relatives normally stayed the full fortnight.
The menfolk seen in the picture have probably come down to join them for the weekend on the Daddy Boat from London.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 British Land Annual Report & Accounts 2006
