Sponsorship British Land is strongly committed to investing in the future through The Companys commitment to the future also includes being a education, the arts and sport.
Particular emphasis is given to helping corporate partner of the London Business School and publishing an young people improve their prospects and quality of life.
award-winning series of Educational Broadsheets for schools.
British Land supports the Investment Property Forums Educational Trust, Over 72,000 schoolchildren from more than 2,000 schools are Barnardos, the British Red Cross, Mencap and the NSPCC.
taking part in The British Land UK Chess Challenge.
The The British Museum, The Royal Ballet School, the Royal Opera tournament is designed for all standards of play and all ages from House, the Royal Academy of Music, English National Opera, the 18 down to 6 years old.
Schools build their reputations, while National Theatre, The Royal Shakespeare Company, The National children benefit from constructive enjoyment as they develop Gallery of Scotland, Wigmore Hall, Sadlers Wells and Regents qualities of concentration, forward planning, resilience and Park Open AirTheatre have also received support.
The Company is a founding exhibition patron of the Royal British Land was the sole sponsor of Degas, Sickert and Toulouse Academy of Arts.
British Land has sponsored The Royal Parks new Lautrec: London and Paris 18701910 at Tate Britain from corporate membership scheme.
British Land is an active supporter of October 2005 to January 2006 and then at the Phillips Collection, the Architecture Foundation and the London Architectural Biennale.
Washington D. C. in February to May 2006.
With over 205,000 It is also supporting a project, working with architects and students visitors the exhibitions attendance was the second highest ever of South Camden Community School, to prepare a plan to improve recorded at Tate Britain.
The exhibition featured more than 100 the pedestrian crossing of Euston Road between Warren Street works and explored the influences of these three masterful Underground Station and the Regents Place Estate.
be displayed at an exhibition at the British Library.
British Land is sponsor of Capital Kids Cricket which encourages British Land has been sole sponsor of The British Land National and enables children, within inner city London, to participate in Ski Championships for 28 consecutive years and also sponsors The the game.
British Land Alpine Ski Team.
British Land has supported the London British Land encourages its management teams to be sensitive Olympic Bid 2012.
The Company was presenting sponsor of the 2006 to local issues in communities in which we operate and to Super Series Squash Finals at Broadgate.
The British Land British sponsor causes which help regeneration of the local community.
Open and Amateur Championships for Real Tennis are now in their Over 70 Head Office and Broadgate Estates staff have 13th year.
participated in volunteering initiatives at Abney Park Cemetery and City Farm in the Borough of Hackney close to Broadgate.
British Land has sponsored The Source Centre for Learning and Development at Meadowhall.
It offers a broad range of training with the emphasis on retailing and IT.
Partners in Leadership is a highly successful project organised by Business in the Community.
Over 600 business partners are matched to head teachers throughout the country, providing a valuable sounding board as well as a link between the school and the business community.
British Land sponsors the Partners in Leadership Newsletter and encourages and supports its own employees involvement as business partners.
British Land supports staff, working through the Education Business Partnership in Camden, providing reading support to primary school children.
The West Euston Partnership involves Camden Council, the Health Authority, the police, community associations, tenants, the church, the Crown Estate, British Land and other groups with a brief to unite the diverse Camden community.
British Land contributes to the Partnerships work and supports community regeneration in the area, by providing financial support each year for the West Euston Community Festival and premises for a community one-stop shop.
122 The British Land Company PLC
