Notes to the accounts 1 Basis of preparation Other investments The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation Other investments are shown at fair value.
Any surplus or deficit arising on revaluation is recognised directly in the income statement.
of certain properties, investments, intangible assets and financial instruments.
The financial statements have also been prepared, for Properties the first time, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union and Properties are externally valued on an open market basis at the balance sheet date.
Investment and development properties are therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The principal impacts of adopting IFRS and the Groups IFRS recorded at valuation: trading properties at the lower of cost and valuation.
accounting policies, along with comparatives for the year ended 31 March 2005 contained within this report, are set out in note 26.
Any surplus or deficit arising on revaluing investment properties is recognised in the income statement for the year.
Where an These accounting policies have been applied consistently in all material respects throughout the year and the comparative figures in investment property is being redeveloped, any movement in valuation is recognised in the income statement.
respect of 2005 have been restated to reflect IFRS adjustments.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, IFRS 7 Valuation surpluses arising on other development properties, those not previously investment properties, are reflected in the Financial instruments: Disclosure: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures was in issue.
IFRS 7 will require revaluation reserve, unless a deficit reduces the value below cost, in which case the deficit is charged to the income statement.
additional disclosure on financial instruments when it comes into effect for the year commencing 1 April 2007.
There are no other The cost of properties in the course of development includes attributable interest and other associated outgoings.
Interest is standards or interpretations in issue but not yet effective that are anticipated to have a material impact on the financial statements.
calculated on the development expenditure by reference to specific borrowings where relevant and otherwise on the average rate Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates including funds applicable to short-term loans.
Interest is not capitalised where no development activity is taking place.
A property ceases to be treated The consolidated accounts include the accounts of The British Land Company PLC and all subsidiaries entities controlled by British as a development property on practical completion.
Disposals are recognised on completion: profits and losses Land.
Control is assumed where British Land has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as arising are recognised through the income statement, the profit on disposal is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds to gain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates acquired and the carrying amount of the asset at the commencement of the accounting period plus additions in the period.
or disposed of during the year are included from the effective date of acquisition or to the effective date of disposal.
Accounting practices In determining whether leases and related properties represent operating or finance leases consideration is given to whether the of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates which differ from Group accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation.
tenant or landlord bears the risks and rewards of ownership.
Properties acquired in corporate vehicles are generally treated as Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition method.
Any excess of the purchase price of business combinations business not asset acquisitions resulting in any contingent capital gains liabilities assumed being reflected in the acquisition balance over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and resulting deferred tax thereon is recognised as sheet rather than recorded as contingencies.
In adopting this policy the directors place value on transparency and consistency, even goodwill.
Any discount received is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
All intra-group transactions, balances, though the liabilities are recorded under IFRS on a full provision basis, significantly above their fair value.
income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Joint ventures and associates, including funds, are accounted for under the equity method, whereby the consolidated balance sheet incorporates the Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The consolidated income statement incorporates the Groups share of joint venture and associate profits after tax.
Their profits include revaluation movements on investment properties.
82 The British Land Company PLC Head leases Net rental income Where an investment property is held under a head lease it is initially Rental income is recognised on an accruals basis.
A rent adjustment recognised as an asset as the sum of the premium paid on based on open market estimated rental value is recognised from acquisition and the present value of minimum ground rent payments.
the rent review date in relation to unsettled rent reviews.
Where a The corresponding rent liability to the head leaseholder is included in rent free period is included in a lease, the rental income foregone the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
is allocated evenly over the period from the date of lease commencement to the earliest termination date.
Rental income from Intangible assets fixed and minimum guaranteed rent reviews is recognised on a Intangible assets, such as customer contracts, acquired through straight-line basis over the shorter of the entire lease term or the business combinations, are measured initially at fair value and are period to the first break option.
Where such rental income is amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, recognised ahead of the related cash flow, an adjustment is made to and are subject to regular reviews for impairment.
ensure the carrying value of the related property including the accrued rent does not exceed the external valuation.
Goodwill Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging a new Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost lease are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period from the of acquisition over the Group's interest in the fair value of the date of lease commencement to the earliest termination date.
identifiable assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or Where a lease incentive payment, including surrender premiums jointly controlled entity at the time of acquisition.
Goodwill normally paid, does not enhance the value of a property, it is amortised on arises as a result of deferred tax being provided on a full provision a straight-line basis over the period from the date of lease basis on acquisition of property companies, without regard to the commencement to the earliest termination date.
Upon receipt of a fair value of the tax liabilities absorbed.
Goodwill is recognised as surrender premium for the early determination of a lease, the profit, an asset and reviewed for impairment annually.
Any impairment net of dilapidations and non-recoverable outgoings relating to the is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not lease concerned is immediately reflected in income.
Management and performance fees Financial obligations and cash Management and performance fees receivable are recognised in the Debt instruments are stated at their net proceeds on issue.
Finance period to which they relate, except for performance fee retentions charges including premiums payable on settlement or redemption subject to clawback, which are recognised over the clawback and direct issue costs are spread over the period to redemption, performance period.
In assessing the risk of clawback, account is using the effective interest method.
taken of the unpredictability of future relative performance against As defined by IAS 39, cash flow hedges are carried at fair value in the benchmark.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges are recognised directly in the hedging reserve and any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Fair value hedges are carried at fair value in the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as effective fair value hedges, are recorded in the income statement, along with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Any ineffective portion is also recognised in the income statement.
Cash equivalents are limited to instruments with a maturity of less than three months.
The British Land Company PLC 83 1 Basis of preparation continued Taxation Employee costs Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year and is calculated The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments to employees using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted.
is determined at the date of grant and is expensed on a straight-line Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of statement because it excludes items of income or expense, that are shares or options that will eventually vest.
In the case of options never taxable or tax deductible or will be taxable at a later date granted, fair value is measured by a Black-Scholes pricing model.
Temporary differences principally arise from Compensation linked to performance fees accrued by the Group is using different balance sheet values for assets and liabilities than amortised over the vesting period.
their respective tax base values.
Deferred tax is provided in respect Defined benefit pension scheme assets are measured using fair of all these taxable temporary differences at the balance sheet date values: pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected on an undiscounted basis.
unit credit method and discounted at the rate of return of a highA deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore quality corporate bond of equivalent term to the scheme liabilities.
recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be The net surplus or deficit is recognised in full in the consolidated regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable balance sheet.
Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to profits from which the future reversal of the underlying temporary past service costs plus the present value of available refunds and differences can be deducted.
On business combinations, the reductions in future contributions to the plan.
deferred tax effect of fair value adjustments is incorporated in the The current service cost and gains and losses on settlement and consolidated balance sheet.
curtailments are charged to operating profit.
Past service costs are Current and prior year tax payable and recoverability of tax losses recognised in the income statement if the benefits have vested or, if are estimated.
The basis of calculating deferred tax depends on they have not vested, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the whether value is expected to be achieved through sales or retention period until vesting occurs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the business.
As British Land has a proven record of portfolio in full in the period in which they occur and are presented in the recycling through sales and a committed strategy to recycle its consolidated statement of changes in equity.
capital, the deferred tax provision is calculated on the basis that Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are assets will be sold and takes account of available loss relief including expensed on the basis of the contracted annual contribution.
indexation, but does not assume any mitigation that could be achieved through tax structuring.
84 The British Land Company PLC
