Responsible business 50 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 Community We recognise that we cannot do these projects successfully on our We aim to provide local communities with safe, clean and own.
We aim to listen to local communities demonstrating our long attractive centres in which to shop and spend leisure time term commitment to them, to the quality of our schemes and the and to recognise that our businesses are integral parts of those integrity of our people.
The regeneration of the old Imperial Tobacco factory in South We do this through the active management of our shopping and Bristol demonstrates The Junctions inclusive approach.
Regular leisure centres, where we aim to support community activities and Community Forum meetings have ensured that both during and attract a diverse customer base.
We actively help co-ordinate after the regeneration process the local community is given a voice.
community activities where we can, as for example where we have recently raised a total of 345,000 for good causes under the Mall To really encourage local community involvement in a practical Cares banner.
Charitable events held by X-Leisure raised 99,715. way, X-Leisure stages a number of community based events at its various properties: from large events such as the Beach Party at Regeneration is a key principle guiding our developments.
West India Quay each August and the Pride March at Brighton Development is not our main business, but we do come across a Marina to much smaller ones such as local carol singing groups number of opportunities to improve facilities through new building, at Christmas.
and this has normally been on brown field sites examples at Oldbury, Swansea and Cardiff immediately come to mind.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial Directors' Remuneration Report and the financial statements statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS the company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Regulation to prepare the group financial statements under directors are required to: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also select suitable accounting policies and then apply them required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the consistently: Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been International Accounting Standards require that IFRS financial followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and statements present fairly for each financial year the Company's explained in the financial statements: financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent out in the International Accounting Standards Board's framework company financial statements comply with the Companies Act for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention compliance with all applicable IFRS.
However, directors are also and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
required to: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of properly select and apply accounting policies: the corporate and financial information included on the Company's present information, including accounting policies, in a manner website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ information: and from legislation in other jurisdictions.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance.
