Glossary of terms 93 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 IPD is Independent Property Databank Ltd, a company that Capital allowances deferred tax provision In accordance with produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
IAS 12, full provision has been made for the deferred tax arising on the benefit of capital allowances claimed to date.
However, in the Loan to value LTV is the ratio of net debt excluding fair value Groups experience the liabilities in respect of capital allowances adjustments for debt and derivatives, to the aggregate value of provided are unlikely to crystallise in practice and are therefore properties including the surplus of the open market value over the excluded when arriving at EPRA NAV.
book value of trading properties, investments in joint ventures and funds and other investments.
CRPM Capital & Regional Property Management Limited is a subsidiary of Capital & Regional plc and earns the management Market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale of and performance fees arising from Capital & Regionals interests an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash in the associated funds and joint ventures.
consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups external valuers.
In accordance with usual practice, the Contribution comprises Capital & Regionals share of the net rents Groups external valuers report valuations net, after the deduction less net interest arising from Capital & Regionals interests in its of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent joint ventures, associates and wholly owned entities.
CULS is the Convertible Subordinated Unsecured Loan Stock.
Net assets per share NAV are shareholders funds divided by the number of shares held by shareholders at the period end, excluding EPRA adjusted fully diluted NAV per share includes the effect own shares held.
of those shares potentially issuable under the CULS or employee share options and excluding own shares held.
The unrealised gains Net rent is Capital & Regionals share, on a see through basis, of and capital allowances deferred tax provision, the fair value of the rental income, less property and management costs excluding borrowings net of tax and the fair value of trading properties are performance fees, of the Group, its associates and joint ventures.
Net interest is Capital & Regionals share, on a see through basis, EPRA earnings per share EPS is the profit after taxation of the interest payable less interest receivable of the Group, its excluding gains on asset disposals and revaluations and their associates and joint ventures.
related taxation, movements in the fair value of financial instruments, intangible asset movements and the capital allowance Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under effects of IAS 12 where applicable, less taxation arising on these head leases.
items, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year excluding own shares held.
Return on equity is the total return, including revaluation gains and losses, divided by opening equity plus time weighted additions EPRA triple net, fully diluted NAV per share includes the effect of to share capital, excluding share options exercised, less reductions those shares potentially issuable under the CULS or employee share in share capital.
options and excluding own shares held.
NAV is adjusted for the fair value of debt and the fair value of trading properties.
Recurring pre-tax profit is the sum of contribution plus management fees, SNO!zone income less SNO!zone expenses, less Estimated rental value ERV is the Groups external valuers fixed management expenses.
opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or Reversion is the estimated increase in rent at review where the rent review of a property.
gross rent is below the estimated rental value.
Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and Reversionary percentage is the percentage by which the ERV reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce exceeds the passing rent.
based upon the timing of the income received.
In accordance with usual practice, the equivalent yields as determined by the Groups Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield external valuers assume rent received annually in arrears and on will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
gross values including prospective purchasers cost.
See through balance sheet is the pro forma proportionately ERV growth is the total growth in ERV on properties owned consolidated balance sheet of the Group, its associates and joint throughout the year including growth due to development.
Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net assets.
See through income statement is the pro forma proportionately Seeing through gearing includes our share of non-recourse net debt in the associates and joint ventures.
consolidated income statement of the Group, its associates and joint ventures.
Initial yield is the annualised net rents generated by the portfolio expressed as a percentage of the portfolio valuation, excluding Total return is the Groups total recognised income for the year as development properties.
set out in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense SORIE expressed as a percentage of opening equity shareholders funds, excluding CULS reserve.
Glossary of terms continued 94 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 Total shareholder return is the growth in price per share plus dividends per share.
Triple net, fully diluted NAV per share includes the effect of those shares potentially issuable under the CULS or employee share options.
SIC 15 Operating lease incentives debtors under accounting rules the balance sheet value of lease incentives given to tenants is deducted from property valuation and shown as a debtor.
The incentive is amortised through the income statement.
Vacancy rate is the estimated rental value of vacant properties expressed as a percentage of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding development properties.
Variable overhead includes discretionary bonuses and the cost of awards to employees made under the LTIP and CAP and is spread over the performance period.
