Foreign Currency Translations and Transactions Share-Based Compensation Our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates that have functional Effective December 1, 2005, we adopted the provisions currencies other than the U. S. dollar translate their assets of SFAS No.
123 revised 2004, Share-Based Payment and liabilities at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet SFAS No.
123 R, which requires us to measure and recdates.
Revenues and expenses of these foreign subsidiaries ognize compensation expense for all share-based compensaand affiliates are translated at weighted-average exchange tion awards.
123 R using the modified rates for the period.
Equity is translated at historical rates, and prospective application transition method.
Under this method, the resulting cumulative foreign currency translation adjustthe share-based compensation cost recognized beginning ments are included as a component of AOCI.
Therefore, the December 1, 2005 includes compensation cost for i all U. S. dollar value of these non-equity translated items in our share-based payments granted prior to, but not vested as of, financial statements will fluctuate from period to period, December 1, 2005, based on the grant date fair value originally depending on the changing value of the dollar against these estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation SFAS No.
Exchange gains and losses arising from the remeasurement 123, and ii all share-based payments granted subsequent of monetary assets and liabilities, and foreign currency transto November 30, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estiactions denominated in a currency other than the functional mated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
123 R. currency of the entity involved are immediately included in Prior to December 1, 2005, as allowed under the then outnonoperating earnings, unless such net liabilities have been standing accounting principles, we did not recognize compendesignated to act as hedges of a net investment in our foreign sation expense for the issuance of stock options with an subsidiaries.
In addition, the unrealized exchange gains or exercise price equal to or greater than the market price of the losses on our long-term intercompany receivables denomiunderlying shares at the date of grant.
nated in a non-functional currency, which are not expected Compensation cost under SFAS No.
123 R is recognized to be repaid in the foreseeable future and are therefore conratably using the straight-line attribution method over the sidered to form part of our net investment, are recorded as a expected vesting period or to the retirement eligibility date, if foreign currency translation adjustment, which is included as less than the vesting period, when vesting is not contingent a component of AOCI.
Finally, net foreign currency transaction upon any future performance.
In addition, pursuant to SFAS gains or losses recorded in our earnings were not significant No.
123 R we are required to estimate the amount of expected in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. forfeitures, which we estimate based on historical forfeiture experience, when calculating compensation cost.
If the actual Earnings Per Share forfeitures that occur are different than the estimate, then we Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income will revise our estimates.
The effect of adopting SFAS No.
by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock 123 R has been to reduce our net income by $57 million and and ordinary shares outstanding during each period.
Diluted our basic and diluted earnings per share by $0.07 for the year earnings per share is computed by dividing adjusted net ended November 30, 2006.
Prior periods are not restated income by the weighted-average number of shares of comunder this transition method.
mon stock and ordinary shares, common stock equivalents and other potentially dilutive securities outstanding during Concentrations of Credit Risk each period.
All shares that are issuable under our outstanding As part of our ongoing control procedures, we monitor convertible notes that have contingent share conversion feaconcentrations of credit risk associated with financial and tures have been considered outstanding for our diluted earnings other institutions with which we conduct significant business.
per share computations, if dilutive, using the if converted Credit risk, including counterparty nonperformance under method of accounting from the date of issuance.
derivative instruments, contingent obligations and new ship progress payment guarantees, is considered minimal, as we Carnival Corporation & plc | page 13
