NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued primarily conduct business with large, well-established  cial institutions who have long-term credit ratings of A or We have reclassified certain prior period amounts to conabove and we seek to diversify our counterparties.
In addition, form them to the current period presentation primarily as a we have established guidelines regarding credit ratings and result of our adopting a new chart of accounts in conjunction investment maturities that we follow to maintain safety and with our initial implementation of a new worldwide accounting liquidity.
We do not anticipate nonperformance by any of our system in the second quarter of 2006.
tation, we identified certain differences among our operating We also monitor the creditworthiness of foreign travel subsidiaries and, accordingly, we have recorded the appropriate agencies and tour operators to which we grant credit terms reclassifications in the prior periods to improve comparability.
in the normal course of our business.
Concentrations of credit risk associated with these receivables are considered minimal NOTE 3DLC Structure primarily due to their short maturities and the large number On April 17, 2003, Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc of accounts within our customer base.
We have experienced formerly known as P&O Princess completed a DLC transaconly minimal credit losses on our trade receivables.
We do not tion, which implemented Carnival Corporation & plcs DLC normally require collateral or other security to support normal structure.
The contracts governing the DLC structure provide credit sales.
However, we do normally require collateral and or that Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc each continue to guarantees to support notes receivable on significant asset have separate boards of directors, but the boards and senior sales and new ship progress payments to shipyards.
executive management of both companies are identical.
The amendments to the constituent documents of each of the companies also provide that, on most matters, the holders of the common equity of both companies effectively vote as a single body.
On specified matters where the interests of Carnival Corporations shareholders may differ from the interests of Carnival plcs shareholders a class rights action, each shareholder body will vote separately as a class, such as transactions primarily designed to amend or unwind the DLC structure.
Generally, no class rights action will be implemented unless approved by both shareholder bodies.
