NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Ship improvement costs that we believe add value to our NOTE 2 Summary of Significant ships are capitalized to the ships, and depreciated over the Accounting Policies improvements estimated useful lives, while costs of repairs Basis of Presentation and maintenance and minor replacement costs are charged to We consolidate entities over which we have control see expense as incurred.
Upon replacement or refurbishment of Note 3, as typically evidenced by a direct ownership interest previously capitalized ship components, these assets estiof greater than 50%.
For affiliates where significant influence mated cost and accumulated depreciation are written off.
We over financial and operating policies exists, as typically evicapitalize interest on ships and other capital projects during denced by a direct ownership interest from 20% to 50%, the their construction period.
investment is accounted for using the equity method.
We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments amount of these assets may not be fully recoverable.
The Cash and cash equivalents include investments with maturassessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to ities of three months or less at acquisition, which are stated at recover the carrying value of our asset based on our estimate cost.
At November 30, 2006 and 2005, cash and cash equivaof its undiscounted future cash flows.
If these estimated lents included $936 million and $980 million of investments, undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying respectively, primarily comprised of money market funds, value of the asset, an impairment charge is recognized for the time deposits and commercial paper.
excess, if any, of the assets carrying value over its estimated As of November 30, 2006 and 2005, our short-term investfair value.
Purchases and sales of short-term investments included in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Dry-dock Costs Flows consisted of investments with original maturities greater Dry-dock costs primarily represent planned major maintethan three months with variable interest rates, which typically finance activities that are incurred when a ship is taken out of reset every 28 days.
Despite the long-term nature of their service for scheduled maintenance.
During 2006 we elected stated contractual maturities, we have the ability to quickly to change our method of accounting for dry-dock costs from liquidate these securities.
All income generated from these the deferral method, under which we amortized our deferred investments was recorded as interest income.
dry-dock costs over the estimated period of benefit between dry-docks, to the direct expense method, under which we Inventories expense all dry-dock costs as incurred.
We believe the direct Inventories consist of provisions, gift shop and art merchanmethod is preferable as it eliminates the significant amount of dise held for resale, fuel and supplies carried at the lower of time and subjectivity that is needed to determine which costs cost or market.
Cost is determined using the weighted-average and activities related to dry-docking should be deferred.
In or first-in, first-out methods.
connection with adopting this change in accounting policy, Property and Equipment we elected to early adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Property and equipment are stated at cost.
154, Accounting Changes and Error and amortization were computed using the straight-line method Corrections, which requires that we report changes in over our estimates of average useful lives and residual values, accounting policy by retrospectively applying the new policies as a percentage of original cost, as follows: to all prior periods presented, unless it is impractical to deterResidual mine the prior period impacts.
Accordingly, we have previously Values Years adjusted our financial statements for all periods presented for Ships.......................... 15% 30 this change in dry-dock policy.
The effects of this change in Ship improvements............... 0% or 15% 3 to remaining accounting policy for the years ended and at November 30 life of ship were as follows in millions, except earnings per share : Buildings and improvements....... 010% 535 Transportation equipment and other..................... 015% 220 Leasehold improvements, Shorter of including port facilities.......... lease term or related asset life page 10 | Carnival Corporation & plc
