MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued In June 2006, a $1 billion stock repurchase authorization Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements was approved by the Boards of Directors subject to certain We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, restrictions 2006 Purchase Program.
This 2006 Purchase including guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests, Program does not have an expiration date and may be disconcertain derivative instruments and variable interest entities, tinued by our Boards of Directors at any time.
At February 9, that either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or 2007, the remaining availability pursuant to our 2006 Purchase future material effect on our financial statements.
At November 30, 2006, we had liquidity of $5.60 billion, Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks which consisted of $1.18 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, $1.87 billion available for borrowing Our growing international business operations are conunder our revolving credit facility and $2.55 billion under comducted primarily through AIDA in Germany, Costa in Southern mitted ship financing facilities.
Our revolving credit facility Europe and China, P&O Cruises and Ocean Village in the UK matures in 2011.
A key to our access to liquidity is the mainand P&O Cruises Australia in Australia, which subject us to an tenance of our strong credit ratings.
increasing level of foreign currency exchange risk related to Based primarily on our historical results, current financial the euro, sterling and Australian dollar because these operacondition and future forecasts, we believe that our existing tions have either the euro, sterling or Australian dollar as their liquidity and cash flow from future operations will be sufficient functional currency.
Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations to fund most of our expected capital projects, debt service of the euro, sterling or Australian dollar against the U. S. dollar requirements, dividend payments, working capital and other will affect our reported financial results since the reporting firm commitments.
In addition, based on our future forecasted currency for our consolidated financial statements is the U. S. operating results and cash flows for fiscal 2007, we expect to dollar and the functional currency for our international operabe in compliance with our debt covenants during 2007.
Howtions is generally the local currency.
Any weakening of the ever, our forecasted cash flow from future operations, as well U. S. dollar against these local functional currencies has the as our credit ratings, may be adversely affected by various financial statement effect of increasing the U. S. dollar values factors including, but not limited to, those factors noted under reported for cruise revenues and cruise expenses in our Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Consolidated Statements of Operations.
To the extent that we are required, or choose, to U. S. dollar has the opposite effect.
fund future cash requirements, including our future shipbuilding We seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in foreign commitments, from sources other than as discussed above, currency exchange rates through our normal operating and we believe that we will be able to secure such financing from financing activities, including netting certain exposures to take banks or through the offering of debt and or equity securities advantage of any natural offsets and, when considered approin the public or private markets.
However, we cannot be cerpriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
The tain that our future operating cash flow will be sufficient to financial impacts of these hedging instruments are generally fund future obligations or that we will be able to obtain addioffset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures tional financing, if necessary.
Our policy is to not use any financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.
