MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued two non-GAAP financial measures assuming the current Key Performance Indicators period currency exchange rates have remained constant with We use net cruise revenues per ALBD and net cruise costs the prior years rates, or on a constant dollar basis, in order per ALBD as significant non-GAAP financial measures of our to remove the impact of changes in exchange rates on our cruise segment financial performance.
We believe that this is a useful revenue yields are commonly used in the cruise industry to measure indicating the actual growth of our operations in a measure a companys cruise segment revenue performance.
fluctuating currency exchange rate environment.
This measure is also used for revenue management purposes.
On a constant dollar basis, net cruise revenues and net In calculating net revenue yields, we use net cruise revenues cruise costs would be $9.21 billion and $5.69 billion for fiscal rather than gross cruise revenues.
We believe that net 2006, respectively.
On a constant dollar basis, gross cruise cruise revenues is a more meaningful measure in determining revenues and gross cruise costs would be $11.42 billion and revenue yield than gross cruise revenues because it reflects $7.91 billion for fiscal 2006, respectively.
In addition, our nonthe cruise revenues earned by us net of our most significant U. S. cruise operations depreciation and net interest expense variable costs, which are travel agent commissions, cost of were impacted by the changes in exchange rates for fiscal air transportation and certain other variable direct costs asso- 2006 compared to 2005. ciated with onboard and other revenues.
Substantially all of All the prior periods financial information presented herein our remaining cruise costs are largely fixed once our ship have been adjusted to reflect the retrospective application of capacity levels have been determined, except for the impact the change in our method of accounting for dry-dock costs, of changing prices.
as more fully discussed in Note 2 in the accompanying finanNet cruise costs per ALBD is the most significant measure cial statements.
we use to monitor our cruise segment costs rather than gross cruise costs per ALBD.
In calculating net cruise costs, we Critical Accounting Estimates exclude the same variable costs that are included in the calcuOur critical accounting estimates are those which we lation of net cruise revenues.
This is done to avoid duplicating believe require our most significant judgments about the these variable costs in these two non-GAAP financial measures.
effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
A discussion We have not provided estimates of future gross revenue of our critical accounting estimates, the underlying judgments yields because the reconciliations of forecasted net cruise and uncertainties used to make them and the likelihood that revenues to forecasted gross cruise revenues would require materially different estimates would be reported under differus to forecast, with reasonable accuracy, the amount of air ent conditions or using different assumptions is as follows: and other transportation costs that our forecasted cruise passengers would elect to purchase from us the air sea mix.
Ship Accounting Since the forecasting of future air sea mix involves several Our most significant assets are our ships and ships under significant variables that are relatively difficult to forecast and construction, which represent 88% of our total assets.
We the revenues from the sale of air and other transportation make several critical accounting estimates dealing with our approximate the costs of providing that transportation, manship accounting.
First, we compute our ships depreciation agement focuses primarily on forecasts of net cruise revenues expense, which represented approximately 10% of our cruise rather than gross cruise revenues.
This does not impact, in costs and expenses in fiscal 2006, which requires us to estiany material respect, our ability to forecast our future results, mate the average useful life of each of our ships, as well as as any variation in the air sea mix has no material impact on their residual values.
Secondly, we account for ship improveour forecasted net cruise revenues.
As such, management ment costs by capitalizing those costs which we believe will does not believe that this reconciling information would be add value to our ships and depreciate those improvements meaningful.
over their estimated useful lives, while expensing repairs In addition, because a significant portion of our operations and maintenance and minor replacement costs as they are utilize the euro or sterling to measure their results and financial incurred.
Finally, when we record the retirement of a ship condition, the translation of those operations to our U. S. dollar component that is included within the ships cost basis, we reporting currency results in increases in reported U. S. dollar estimate its net book value to determine the amount of ship revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar weakens against component retired.
these foreign currencies, and decreases in reported U. S. dollar We determine the average useful life of our ships and revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar strengthens against their residual values based primarily on our estimates of the these foreign currencies.
Accordingly, we also monitor our weighted-average useful lives and residual values of the ships page 34 | Carnival Corporation & plc major component systems, such as cabins, main diesels, main Asset Impairment electric, superstructure and hull.
In addition, we consider, The impairment reviews of our ships, trademarks and among other things, long-term vacation market conditions and goodwill, which has been allocated to our cruise line reporting competition and historical useful lives of similarly-built ships.
units, require us to make significant estimates to determine We have estimated our new ships average useful lives at the fair values of these assets or reporting units.
30 years and their average residual values at 15% of our origiThe determination of fair value includes numerous uncerfinal ship cost.
tainties, unless a viable actively traded market exists for the Given the very large and complex nature of our ships, ship asset or for a comparable reporting unit, which is usually not accounting estimates require considerable judgment and are the case for cruise ships, cruise lines and trademarks.
We do not have cost segregation studies example, in determining fair values of ships and cruise lines performed to specifically componentize our ship systems.
In utilizing discounted forecasted cash flows, significant judgaddition, since we do not separately componentize our ships, ments are made concerning, among other things, future net we do not identify and track depreciation of specific comporevenue yields, net cruise costs per ALBD, interest and disnent systems.
Therefore, we have to estimate the net book count rates, cruise itineraries, ship additions and retirements, value of components that are replaced or refurbished, based technological changes, consumer demand, governmental primarily upon their replacement or refurbishment cost and regulations and the effects of competition.
In addition, third their age.
party appraisers are sometimes used to determine fair values If materially different conditions existed, or if we materially and some of their valuation methodologies are also subject changed our assumptions of ship lives and residual values, our to similar types of uncertainties.
Also, the determination of depreciation expense or loss on replacement or refurbishment fair values of reporting units using a price earnings multiple of ship assets and net book value of our ships would be mateapproach also requires significant judgments, such as deterrially different.
In addition, if we change our assumptions in mining reasonably comparable multiples.
Finally, determining making our determinations as to whether improvements to a trademark fair values also requires significant judgments in ship add value, the amounts we expense each year as repair determining both the estimated trademark cash flows, and and maintenance costs could increase, partially offset by a the appropriate royalty rates to be applied to those cash flows decrease in depreciation expense, as less costs would have to determine their fair value.
We believe that we have made been initially capitalized to our ships.
Our fiscal 2006 ship reasonable estimates and judgments in determining whether depreciation expense would have increased by approximately our ships, goodwill and trademarks have been impaired.
$25 million for every year we reduced our estimated average However, if there is a material change in the assumptions 30 year ship useful life.
In addition, if our ships were estimated used in our determination of fair value or if there is a material to have no residual value, our fiscal 2006 depreciation expense change in the conditions or circumstances influencing fair would have increased by approximately $125 million.
value, we could be required to recognize a material impairWe believe that the estimates we made for ship accountment charge.
ing purposes are reasonable and our methods are consistently Contingencies applied and, accordingly, result in depreciation expense that We periodically assess the potential liabilities related to is based on a rational and systematic method to equitably alloany lawsuits or claims brought against us, as well as for other cate the costs of our ships to the periods during which services known unasserted claims, including environmental, legal, are obtained from their use.
In addition, we believe that the passenger and crew, and tax matters.
While it is typically very estimates we made are reasonable and our methods consisdifficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of tently applied 1 in determining the average useful life and these matters, we use our best judgment to determine if it average residual values of our ships: 2 in determining which is probable that we will incur an expense related to the settleship improvement costs add value to our ships: and 3 in ment or final adjudication of such matters and whether a determining the net book value of ship component assets reasonable estimation of such probable loss, if any, can be being replaced or refurbished.
Finally, we believe our critical made.
In assessing probable losses, we make estimates of ship accounting estimates are generally comparable with the amount of probable insurance recoveries, if any, which are those of other major cruise companies.
We accrue a liability when we believe a Carnival Corporation & plc | page 35
