MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued currency swaps, whereby we have converted $267 million of Based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease or increase in the U. S. dollar debt into sterling debt, $842 million of U. S. dollar November 30, 2006 market interest rates, the fair value of debt into euro debt and $143 million of euro debt into sterling our long-term debt and interest rate swaps would increase or debt, thus partially offsetting this foreign currency exchange decrease by approximately $120 million and annual interest rate risk.
At November 30, 2006, the fair value of these foreign expense on our variable rate debt, including the effect of our currency swaps was an unrealized loss of $169 million, which interest rate swaps, would increase or decrease by approxiis recorded in AOCI and offsets a portion of the gains recorded mately $12 million.
in AOCI upon translating these foreign subsidiaries net assets In addition, based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease or into U. S. dollars.
Based upon a 10% hypothetical increase or increase in Carnival Corporations November 30, 2006 comdecrease in the November 30, 2006 foreign currency exchange mon stock price, the fair value of our convertible notes would rates, we estimate that these derivative contracts fair values increase or decrease by approximately $145 million.
would increase or decrease by $125 million, which would be These hypothetical amounts are determined by considering offset by a decrease or increase of $125 million in the U. S. the impact of the hypothetical interest rates and common dollar value of our net investments.
stock price on our existing long-term debt and interest rate swaps.
This analysis does not consider the effects of the Interest Rate Risks changes in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such environments or any relationships which may We seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in interest exist between interest rate and stock price movements.
rates through our long-term investment and debt portfolio Furthermore, since substantially all of our fixed rate long-term strategies, which include entering into a substantial amount debt cannot currently be called or prepaid and $365 million of fixed rate debt instruments.
We continuously evaluate our of our variable rate long-term debt is subject to interest rate debt portfolio, and make periodic adjustments to the mix of swaps which effectively fix the interest rate, it is unlikely we floating rate and fixed rate debt based on our view of interest would be able to take any significant steps in the short-term rate movements through the use of interest rate swaps.
At to mitigate our exposure in the event of a significant decrease both November 30, 2006 and 2005, 72% of the interest cost in market interest rates.
on our long-term debt was effectively fixed and 28% was variable, including the effect of our interest rate swaps.
Bunker Fuel Price Risks Specifically, we have interest rate swaps at November 30, 2006, which effectively changed $932 million of fixed rate We have typically not used financial instruments to hedge debt to libor-based floating rate debt.
In addition, we have our exposure to the bunker fuel price market risk.
We estiinterest rate swaps at November 30, 2006 which effectively mate that our fiscal 2007 fuel cost would increase or decrease changed $365 million of libor-based floating rate debt to by approximately $3 million for each $1 per metric ton increase fixed rate debt.
The fair value of our long-term debt and or decrease in our average bunker fuel price.
interest rate swaps at November 30, 2006 was $7.79 billion.
