REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Boards of Directors and Shareholders of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc: We have completed integrated audits of Carnival Corporation & plcs consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of November 30, 2006 in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.
Consolidated Financial Statements In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and shareholders equity present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Carnival Corporation & plc comprising Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc and their respective subsidiaries, the Company at November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended November 30, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, effective December 1, 2005 the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
In addition, as discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, effective March 1, 2006 the Company elected to change its method of accounting for costs incurred in connection with its dry-dock activities.
Internal Control over Financial Reporting Also, in our opinion, managements assessment, included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of November 30, 2006 based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria.
Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of November 30, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the COSO.
The Companys management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on managements assessment and on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that i pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: ii provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company: and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Miami, Florida February 12, 2007 Carnival Corporation & plc | page 31
