MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued In June 2006, a $1 billion stock repurchase authorization Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements was approved by the Boards of Directors subject to certain We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, restrictions 2006 Purchase Program.
This 2006 Purchase including guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests, Program does not have an expiration date and may be disconcertain derivative instruments and variable interest entities, tinued by our Boards of Directors at any time.
At February 9, that either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or 2007, the remaining availability pursuant to our 2006 Purchase future material effect on our financial statements.
At November 30, 2006, we had liquidity of $5.60 billion, Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks which consisted of $1.18 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, $1.87 billion available for borrowing Our growing international business operations are conunder our revolving credit facility and $2.55 billion under comducted primarily through AIDA in Germany, Costa in Southern mitted ship financing facilities.
Our revolving credit facility Europe and China, P&O Cruises and Ocean Village in the UK matures in 2011.
A key to our access to liquidity is the mainand P&O Cruises Australia in Australia, which subject us to an tenance of our strong credit ratings.
increasing level of foreign currency exchange risk related to Based primarily on our historical results, current financial the euro, sterling and Australian dollar because these operacondition and future forecasts, we believe that our existing tions have either the euro, sterling or Australian dollar as their liquidity and cash flow from future operations will be sufficient functional currency.
Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations to fund most of our expected capital projects, debt service of the euro, sterling or Australian dollar against the U. S. dollar requirements, dividend payments, working capital and other will affect our reported financial results since the reporting firm commitments.
In addition, based on our future forecasted currency for our consolidated financial statements is the U. S. operating results and cash flows for fiscal 2007, we expect to dollar and the functional currency for our international operabe in compliance with our debt covenants during 2007.
Howtions is generally the local currency.
Any weakening of the ever, our forecasted cash flow from future operations, as well U. S. dollar against these local functional currencies has the as our credit ratings, may be adversely affected by various financial statement effect of increasing the U. S. dollar values factors including, but not limited to, those factors noted under reported for cruise revenues and cruise expenses in our Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Consolidated Statements of Operations.
To the extent that we are required, or choose, to U. S. dollar has the opposite effect.
fund future cash requirements, including our future shipbuilding We seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in foreign commitments, from sources other than as discussed above, currency exchange rates through our normal operating and we believe that we will be able to secure such financing from financing activities, including netting certain exposures to take banks or through the offering of debt and or equity securities advantage of any natural offsets and, when considered approin the public or private markets.
However, we cannot be cerpriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
The tain that our future operating cash flow will be sufficient to financial impacts of these hedging instruments are generally fund future obligations or that we will be able to obtain addioffset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures tional financing, if necessary.
Our policy is to not use any financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.
page 42 | Carnival Corporation & plc One of our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks will increase or decrease based upon changes in the exchange is related to our outstanding commitments under ship conrates until the payments are made under the shipbuilding construction contracts denominated in a currency other than the tracts or we enter into foreign currency swaps.
These euro functional currency of the cruise brand that is expected to be commitments effectively act as an economic hedge against a operating the ship.
These currency commitments are affected portion of our net investment in euro and sterling-denominated by fluctuations in the value of the functional currency as comcruise operations.
Accordingly, any increase or decrease in our pared to the currency in which the shipbuilding contract is ship costs resulting from changes in the exchange rates will denominated.
We use foreign currency swaps to manage be offset by a corresponding change in the net assets of our foreign currency exchange rate risk from some of our ship euro and sterling-denominated cruise operations.
Based upon construction contracts see Notes 2, 6 and 10 in the accoma 10% hypothetical increase or decrease in the November 30, panying financial statements.
Accordingly, increases and 2006 U. S. dollar and sterling to the euro foreign currency decreases in the fair value of these foreign currency swaps exchange rates, the cost of these ships would increase or offset changes in the fair value of the foreign currency denomdecrease by $336 million.
Decisions regarding whether or not inated ship construction commitments, thus resulting in the to hedge a given ship commitment are made on a case-byelimination of such risk.
case basis, taking into consideration the amount and duration Specifically, we have foreign currency swaps for two of our of the exposure, market volatility, and economic trends.
At November 30, The cost of shipbuilding orders that we may place in the 2006, the fair value of these foreign currency swaps was an future for our cruise lines who generate their cash flows in unrealized loss of $26 million which is recorded, along with an a currency that is different than the shipyards operating offsetting $26 million fair value asset related to our shipbuildcurrency, generally the euro, is expected to be affected by ing firm commitments, on our accompanying 2006 balance foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Based upon a 10% strengthening or weakening of in the U. S. dollar relative to the euro over the past several the sterling compared to the euro as of November 30, 2006, years, the U. S. dollar cost to order new cruise ships at current assuming no changes in comparative interest rates, the exchange rates has increased significantly.
If the U. S. dollar estimated fair value of these foreign currency swaps would remains at current levels or declines further, this may affect decrease or increase by $96 million, which would be offset our ability to order future new cruise ships for U. S. dollar funcby a decrease or increase of $96 million in the U. S. dollar tional currency brands.
value of the related foreign currency ship construction comFinally, we consider our investments in foreign subsidiaries mitments resulting in no net dollar impact to us.
to be denominated in relatively stable currencies and of a However, at November 30, 2006, as adjusted for our ship long-term nature.
In addition to the strategy discussed above, orders through January 2007, we have six euro-denominated we also partially address these exposures by denominating a shipbuilding commitments aggregating 2.55 billion assigned portion of our debt, or entering into foreign currency swaps, to certain of our U. S. dollar or sterling functional currency in our subsidiaries functional currencies generally euros or operations, for which we have not entered into any foreign sterling.
Specifically, we have debt of $1.02 billion in euros currency swaps.
Therefore, the U. S. dollar cost of these ships and $419 million in sterling and have $1.25 billion of foreign Carnival Corporation & plc | page 43
