In connection with our cruise ships under contract for In January 2006, a lawsuit was filed against Carnival construction listed above, we have paid $922 million through Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and other nonNovember 30, 2006 and anticipate paying the remaining estiaffiliated cruise lines in New York on behalf of a purported mated total costs as follows: $2.65 billion, $2.51 billion, $2.43 class of owners of intellectual property rights to musical plays billion, $1.69 billion and $617 million in fiscal 2007, 2008, 2009, and other works performed in the U. S. The plaintiffs claim 2010 and 2011, respectively.
infringement of copyrights to Broadway, off Broadway and other plays.
The suit seeks payment of i damages, ii disgorgement Operating Leases of alleged profits and iii an injunction against future infringeRent expense under our operating leases, primarily for office ment.
In the event that an award is given in favor of the plainand warehouse space, was $47 million in fiscal 2006 and tiffs, the amount of damages, if any, which Carnival Corporation $50 million in each of fiscal 2005 and 2004.
At November 30, and its subsidiaries and affiliates would have to pay is not 2006, minimum annual rentals for our operating leases, with currently determinable.
The ultimate outcome of this matter initial or remaining terms in excess of one year, were as follows cannot be determined at this time.
However, we intend to in millions : $40, $36, $34, $31, $29 and $180 in fiscal 2007 vigorously defend this matter.
In the normal course of our business, various other claims Port Facilities and Other and lawsuits have been filed or are pending against us.
Most At November 30, 2006, we had commitments through of these claims and lawsuits are covered by insurance and, 2052, with initial or remaining terms in excess of one year, to accordingly, the maximum amount of our liability, net of any pay minimum amounts for our annual usage of port facilities insurance recoverables, is typically limited to our self-insurance and other contractual commitments as follows in millions : retention levels.
However, the ultimate outcome of these $107, $97, $83, $74, $61 and $217 in fiscal 2007 through claims and lawsuits which are not covered by insurance 2011 and thereafter, respectively.
cannot be determined at this time.
Contingent Obligations NOTE 7Contingencies At November 30, 2006, Carnival Corporation had contingent Litigation obligations totaling approximately $1.07 billion to participants On September 21, 2006, a class action complaint was filed in lease out and lease back type transactions for three of its on behalf of a purported class of past passengers against ships.
At the inception of the leases, the entire amount of the Holland America Line HAL in the U. S. The complaint contingent obligations was paid by Carnival Corporation to alleges that HAL a failed to disclose that shore excursion major financial institutions to enable them to directly pay these vendors paid HAL to promote their services as required by an obligations.
Accordingly, these obligations were considered Alaska statute, and b collected and retained payment from extinguished, and neither the funds nor the contingent obligapassengers for Passenger Vessel Service Act PSVA violations have been included on our balance sheets.
Carnival tions in certain instances when HAL did not actually incur the Corporation would only be required to make any payments fines.
The complaint seeks i certification as a class action, under these contingent obligations in the remote event of ii statutory damages under Alaskas consumer protection nonperformance by these financial institutions, all of which statutes, iii damages for each PSVA fine collected and addihave long-term credit ratings of AA or higher.
In addition, tional damages for each PSVA fine collected where no fine Carnival Corporation obtained a direct guarantee from AA or was imposed, iv injunctive relief and v attorneys fees, higher rated financial institutions for $284 million of the above costs and interest.
The ultimate outcome of this action cannot noted contingent obligations, thereby further reducing the be determined at this time.
However, we believe that we have already remote exposure to this portion of the contingent meritorious defenses to these claims and intend to vigorously obligations.
In certain cases, if the credit ratings of the major defend this matter.
financial institutions who are directly paying the contingent Carnival Corporation & plc | page 21
