NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued investment in a foreign subsidiary, then changes in the fair and on a pro rata basis for voyages in excess of ten nights.
value of the financial instrument are recognized as a compoFuture travel discount vouchers issued to guests are typically nent of AOCI to offset a portion of the change in the translated recorded as a reduction of revenues when such vouchers are value of the net investment being hedged, until the investment utilized.
Cancellation fees are recognized in revenues at the is liquidated.
We formally document all hedging relationships time of the cancellation.
Revenues and expenses from our for all derivative and nonderivative hedges and the underlying tour and travel services are recognized at the time the services hedged items, as well as our risk management objectives and are performed or expenses are incurred.
strategies for undertaking the hedge transactions.
Our sale to passengers of air and other transportation to We classify the fair value of our derivative contracts and and from our ships and the related cost of purchasing this the fair value of our offsetting hedged firm commitments as service is recorded as cruise passenger ticket revenues and either current or long-term, which are included in prepaid and cruise transportation costs, respectively, in the accompanying other assets and accrued and other liabilities, depending on Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The proceeds that whether the maturity date of the derivative contract is within we collect from the sale of third party shore excursions and or beyond one year from our balance sheet dates.
The cash on behalf of onboard concessionaires, net of the amounts flows from derivatives treated as hedges are classified in our remitted to them, are recorded as concession revenues, on Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the same category a net basis, in onboard and other cruise revenues.
Insurance Self-Insurance During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, all net changes in the We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance for fair value of both our fair value hedges and the offsetting a number of risks including claims related to crew and passenhedged firm commitments and our cash flow hedges were gers, hull and machinery, war risk, workers compensation, immaterial, as were any ineffective portions of these hedges.
property damage and general liability.
Liabilities associated No fair value hedges or cash flow hedges were derecognized with certain of these risks, including crew and passenger claims, or discontinued in fiscal 2006, 2005 or 2004.
In addition, the are estimated based on, among other things, historical claims amount of realized net losses or gains from cash flow hedges experience, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions.
that were reclassified into earnings during fiscal 2006, 2005 Our expected loss accruals are based on estimates, and while and 2004 were not significant.
The amount of estimated cash we believe the amounts accrued are adequate the ultimate flow hedges unrealized net losses which are expected to loss may differ from the amounts provided.
be reclassified to earnings in the next twelve months is not significant.
Selling and Administrative Expenses Finally, if any shipyard with which we have contracts to Selling expenses include items such as advertising, marketbuild our ships is unable to perform, we would be required ing, promotional and related costs.
Advertising costs are to perform under our foreign currency swaps related to these charged to expense as incurred except for brochures and shipbuilding contracts.
Accordingly, based upon the circummedia production costs.
The brochures and media production stances, we may have to discontinue the accounting for those costs are recorded as prepaid expenses and charged to expense currency swaps as hedges, if the shipyard cannot perform.
as consumed or upon the first airing of the advertisement, However, we believe that the risk of shipyard nonperformance respectively.
Advertising expenses totaled $464 million, $455 is remote.
million and $464 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
At November 30, 2006 and 2005, the amount of adverRevenue and Expense Recognition tising costs included in prepaid expenses was not significant.
Guest cruise deposits represent unearned revenues and Administrative expenses represent the costs of our shoreside are initially recorded as customer deposit liabilities when ship support, reservation and other administrative functions received.
Customer deposits are subsequently recognized as and include items such as salaries and related benefits, cruise revenues, together with revenues from onboard and professional fees and occupancy costs, which are typically other activities, which include transportation and shore excurexpensed as incurred.
sion revenues and all associated direct costs of a voyage, upon completion of voyages with durations of ten nights or less page 12 | Carnival Corporation & plc
