Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies preparing their accounts under IFRS.
The principal accounting policies are described below.
Basis of consolidation The group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Derwent London plc and all of its subsidiaries, together with the groups share of the results of its joint ventures.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations applicable to the groups financial statements which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and a complementary amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements capital disclosures effective from 1st January 2007 IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures of qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, including specified minimum disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
The amendment to IAS 1 introduces disclosures about the level of an entitys capital and how it manages capital.
Management is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 7 and the complementary amendment to IAS 1 on the groups financial statements but does not expect any changes to disclosures resulting from their introduction to have a material effect on the financial statements.
The following standard and interpretations have been issued but all are deemed not relevant to the group or to have no material impact on the financial statements of the group when the relevant standards come into effect.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective from 1st January 2009 IFRIC 7 Applying the Restated Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinationary Economies effective from 1st May 2006 IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share Based Payment Transactions effective from 1st May 2006 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives effective from 1st June 2006 IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment effective from 1st November 2006 IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions effective from 1st March 2007 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Agreements effective from 1st January 2008 UK companies can only adopt IFRSs and IFRICs after they have been endorsed by the European Union.
Of the standards and interpretations listed above, the following had not yet been endorsed by the European Union at the date these accounts were signed: IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and judgements.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the groups accounting policies.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Management anticipate that, in respect of assets and liabilities carried at the balance sheet date, none of these estimates have a significant risk of causing a material effect on the results for the forthcoming year.
Any judgements made by management are discussed in the accounting policies below.
28 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006
