Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group, for safeguarding the assets of the company, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are also required to prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors have chosen to prepare financial statements for the company in accordance with IFRS.
Group financial statements International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the groups financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
A fair presentation also requires the directors to: consistently select and apply appropriate accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Parent company financial statements Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Financial statements are published on the groups website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the groups website is the responsibility of the directors.
The directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
56 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006
