Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies preparing their accounts under IFRS.
The principal accounting policies are described below.
Basis of consolidation The group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Derwent London plc and all of its subsidiaries, together with the groups share of the results of its joint ventures.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations applicable to the groups financial statements which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and a complementary amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements capital disclosures effective from 1st January 2007 IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures of qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, including specified minimum disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
The amendment to IAS 1 introduces disclosures about the level of an entitys capital and how it manages capital.
Management is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 7 and the complementary amendment to IAS 1 on the groups financial statements but does not expect any changes to disclosures resulting from their introduction to have a material effect on the financial statements.
The following standard and interpretations have been issued but all are deemed not relevant to the group or to have no material impact on the financial statements of the group when the relevant standards come into effect.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective from 1st January 2009 IFRIC 7 Applying the Restated Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinationary Economies effective from 1st May 2006 IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share Based Payment Transactions effective from 1st May 2006 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives effective from 1st June 2006 IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment effective from 1st November 2006 IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions effective from 1st March 2007 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Agreements effective from 1st January 2008 UK companies can only adopt IFRSs and IFRICs after they have been endorsed by the European Union.
Of the standards and interpretations listed above, the following had not yet been endorsed by the European Union at the date these accounts were signed: IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and judgements.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the groups accounting policies.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Management anticipate that, in respect of assets and liabilities carried at the balance sheet date, none of these estimates have a significant risk of causing a material effect on the results for the forthcoming year.
Any judgements made by management are discussed in the accounting policies below.
28 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Gross property income Gross property income arises from three main sources: i Rental income Rental income arises from operating leases granted to tenants.
An operating lease is a lease other than a finance lease.
A finance lease is one whereby substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are passed to the lessee.
Rental income is recognised in the group income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
This includes the effect of lease incentives to tenants, which are normally in the form of rent free periods or capital contributions in lieu of rent free periods.
For income from property leased out under a finance lease, a lease receivable asset is recognised in the balance sheet at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease, as dened in IAS 17, Leases.
Minimum lease payments receivable, again dened in IAS 17, are apportioned between finance income and the reduction of the outstanding lease receivable so as to produce a constant periodic rate of return on the remaining net investment in the lease.
Contingent rents, being the difference between the rent currently receivable and the minimum lease payments when the net investment in the lease was originally calculated, are recognised in property income in the years in which they are receivable.
ii Reverse surrender premiums Payments received from tenants to surrender their lease obligations are recognised immediately in the group income statement.
iii Dilapidations Dilapidations monies received from tenants in respect of their lease obligations are recognised immediately in the group income statement.
Development income Development income is recognised in accordance with IAS 18, Revenue, and is based on the directors assessment of the stage of completion of the project, the future costs and the expected value of the completed building.
Expenses i Lease payments Where investment properties are held under operating leases, the leasehold interest is classied as if it were held under a finance lease, which is recognised at its fair value on the balance sheet, within the investment property carrying value.
Upon initial recognition, a corresponding liability is included as a finance lease liability.
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining finance lease liability.
Contingent rents payable, being the difference between the rent currently payable and the minimum lease payments when the lease liability was originally calculated, are charged as expenses within property expenditure in the years in which they are payable.
ii Other property expenditure Vacant property costs and other property costs are expensed in the year to which they relate.
Employee benets i Share-based remuneration The company operates a long-term incentive plan and share option scheme.
The fair value of the conditional awards of shares granted under the long-term incentive plan and the options granted under the share option scheme are determined at the date of grant.
This fair value is then expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
At each reporting date, the non-market based performance criteria of the long-term incentive plan are reconsidered and the expense is revised as necessary.
In respect of the share option scheme, the fair value of options granted is calculated using a binomial model.
Under the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, no expense is recognised for options or conditional shares granted on or before 7th November 2002. ii Pensions The company operates a dened contribution pension scheme.
The contributions payable to the scheme are expensed in the year to which they relate.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 29 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Investment properties i Valuation Investment properties are those that are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both, including those that are undergoing redevelopment.
They are reported on the group balance sheet at fair value adjusted for the carrying value of leasehold interests and lease incentive debtors.
Fair value is the amount for which an investment property could be exchanged between knowledgeable and willing parties in an arms length transaction.
The valuation is undertaken by independent valuers who hold recognised and relevant professional qualications and have recent experience in the locations and categories of properties being valued.
Surpluses or deficits resulting from changes in the fair value of investment property are reported in the group income statement in the year in which they arise.
ii Capital expenditure Capital expenditure, being costs directly attributable to the redevelopment or refurbishment of an investment property, up to the point of it being completed for its intended use, are capitalised in the carrying value of that property.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to such expenditure are expensed in the year in which they arise.
iii Disposal The disposal of investment properties is accounted for on completion of contract.
On disposal, any gain or loss is calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying value at the last year end plus subsequent capitalised expenditure during the year.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment, is depreciated at a rate of between 10% and 25% per annum which is calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value of the individual assets, over their expected useful lives.
Investments Investments in joint ventures, being those entities over whose activities the group has joint control, as established by contractual agreement, are included in the groups balance sheet at cost together with the groups share of post acquisition reserves, on a net equity basis.
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are included in the companys balance sheet at the lower of cost and their net asset value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and on-demand deposits less overdrafts.
Cash equivalents comprise short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the original transaction value.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised and carried at the original transaction value.
30 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Financial liabilities i Bank loans and overdrafts Bank loans and overdrafts are included as financial liabilities on the balance sheets at the amounts drawn on the particular facilities.
Interest payable is expensed as a finance cost in the year to which it relates.
ii Debenture loan The debenture loan is included as a financial liability on the balance sheet net of the unamortised discount and costs on issue.
The difference between this carrying value and the redemption value is recognised in the group income statement over the life of the debenture on an effective interest basis.
Interest payable to debenture holders is expensed in the year to which it relates.
On redemption, all remaining unamortised discount and costs on issue are recognised together with the premium and the costs of redemption in finance costs in the income statement as an exceptional item in accordance with the accounting policy below.
iii Finance lease liabilities Finance lease liabilities arise for those investment properties held under a leasehold interest and accounted for as investment property.
The liability is initially calculated as the present value of the minimum lease payments, reducing in subsequent years by the apportionment of payments to the lessor, as described above under the heading for lease payments.
iv Interest rate derivatives The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage the interest rate risk associated with the nancing of the groups business.
No trading in financial instruments is undertaken.
At each reporting date, these interest rate derivatives are measured at fair value, being the estimated amount that the group would receive or pay to terminate the agreement at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current credit rating of the counterparties.
The gain or loss at each fair value remeasurement is recognised in the group income statement.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the tax computations, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
In respect of the deferred tax on the revaluation surplus, this is calculated on the basis of the chargeable gains that would crystallise on the sale of the investment portfolio as at the reporting date.
The calculation takes account of available indexation on the historic cost of the properties and any available capital losses.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the group income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it is also dealt with in equity.
Dividends Dividends payable on the ordinary share capital are recognised in the year in which they are declared.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items which derive from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the group and which, individually or, if a similar type, in aggregate, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence if the financial statements are to give a true and fair view.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 31
