Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 47 Statement of directors responsibilities n The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report provide additional disclosures when compliance with the and the financial statements.
The directors are required to specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with to understand the impact of particular transactions, other International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Company events and conditions on the entitys financial position and law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements financial performance.
in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 In the case of UK GAAP Company accounts, the directors are of the IAS Regulation.
also required to prepare financial statements for each financial International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
period and to make judgements and estimates that are This requires the faithful representation of the effects of reasonable and prudent.
transactions, other events and conditions in accordance The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Standards.
Directors are also required to: Act 1985. n properly select and apply accounting policies: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity n present information, including accounting policies, in a of the Company website.
Legislation in the UK governing the manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and preparation and dissemination of financial statements may understandable information: and differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
