52 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs for the first time.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRSs are given in note 23.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs and interpretations adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties and pension liabilities.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management is required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the financial statements.
Management believes that the judgements made in the preparation of the financial statements are reasonable.
However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Rent receivable This comprises rental income and premiums on lease surrenders on investment properties for the year, exclusive of service charges receivable.
Lease incentives Lease incentives including rent-free periods and payments to tenants, are allocated to the income statement over the lease term.
The value of resulting accrued rental income is included within the respective property.
Other property expenses Irrecoverable running costs directly attributable to specic properties within the Groups portfolio are charged to the income statement as other property expenses.
Costs incurred in the improvement of the portfolio which, in the opinion of the directors, are not of a capital nature are written off to the income statement as incurred.
Administration expenses Costs not directly attributable to individual properties are treated as administration expenses.
Share-based payment The cost of granting share-based payments to employees and directors is recognised within administration expenses in the income statement.
The Group has used the Stochastic model to value the grants which is dependent upon factors including the share price, expected volatility and vesting period and the resulting fair value is amortised through the income statement over the vesting period.
The charge is reversed if it is likely that any non-market based criteria will not be met.
Investment properties Investment properties, including those under development, are professionally valued each year, on a market value basis, and any surpluses or deficits arising are taken to the income statement.
Disposals of properties are recognised where contracts have been unconditionally exchanged during the accounting period and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the property have been transferred to the purchaser.
Depreciation In accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property, no depreciation is provided in respect of freehold investment properties and leasehold investment properties with over 20 years to run.
Depreciation is provided on plant and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the date of acquisition of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as follows: Fixtures and fittings over five years Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease.
Development properties Development properties are carried in property, plant and equipment and are professionally valued each year, on a market value basis, and any surpluses arising are taken to the revaluation reserve with any deficits below cost taken to the income statement.
A development property is one purchased for the purposes of development, redevelopment or substantial refurbishment with relatively little, or short-term, income whether planning permission exists or is still to be granted.
All directly attributable costs of bringing a property to a condition suitable for letting are capitalised into the cost of the property.
Once development is concluded, the property is transferred to investment property.
Any cumulative revaluation reserve in respect of that property is transferred to retained earnings.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 Notes forming part of the Group Financial Statements 53 1 Accounting policies continued Joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method: the Group balance sheet contains the Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures.
Long-term loans owed to the Group by joint ventures are included within investments.
The Groups share of joint ventures profit is included in a single line in the Group income statement.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the tax base of an asset or liability and its carrying amount in the balance sheet.
The Group recognises deferred tax in respect of property revaluations on the basis that their book value is realised through the sale of individual properties giving rise to capital gains.
Such capital gains are mitigated by the availability of indexation and it has been assumed that capital allowances claimed by the Group to date will be retained on sale.
The directors consider this to be the most appropriate basis for the calculation.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
Pension benefits The Group contributes to a dened benefit pension plan which is funded with assets held separately from those of the Group.
The full value of the net assets or liabilities of the pension fund is brought on to the balance sheet at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are taken to the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, all other movements are taken to the income statement.
Capitalisation of interest Interest associated with direct expenditure on investment properties under development and development properties is capitalised.
Direct expenditure includes the purchase cost of a site or property for development properties, but does not include the original book cost of investment property under development.
Interest is capitalised from the start of the development work until the date of practical completion.
The rate used is the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of borrowings or, if appropriate, the rate on specific associated borrowings.
Financial instruments The Groups derivatives are measured at fair value in the balance sheet.
To the extent that a derivative provides an effective cash flow hedge against the Groups underlying exposure the movements in the fair value of the hedge are taken to equity.
To the extent that the derivative does not effectively hedge the underlying exposure the movement in the fair value of the hedge is taken to the income statement.
Convertible bonds Convertible bonds are partly carried as debt, based on the net present value of future cash flows and prevailing interest rates at the time of issue, and the balance carried as equity within an equity reserve.
Over the term of the loan, the debt is increased to its nominal value by charges to the income statement.
Head leases The present value of future ground rents is added to the carrying value of a leasehold investment property and to long-term liabilities.
On payment of a ground rent virtually all of the cost is charged to the income statement, principally as interest payable, and the balance reduces the liability: an equal reduction to the assets valuation is charged to the income statement.
Tenant leases Management have considered the potential transfer of risks and rewards of ownership in accordance with IAS 17 Leases for all properties leased to tenants and in their judgement have determined that all such leases are operating leases.
Segmental analysis The Group has only one reportable segment on the basis that all of its revenue is generated from investment properties located in central London: accordingly no segmental analysis is presented.
Construction contracts Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured as the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed bear to the estimated total contract costs.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the client.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
