52 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs for the first time.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRSs are given in note 23.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs and interpretations adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties and pension liabilities.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management is required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the financial statements.
Management believes that the judgements made in the preparation of the financial statements are reasonable.
However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Rent receivable This comprises rental income and premiums on lease surrenders on investment properties for the year, exclusive of service charges receivable.
Lease incentives Lease incentives including rent-free periods and payments to tenants, are allocated to the income statement over the lease term.
The value of resulting accrued rental income is included within the respective property.
Other property expenses Irrecoverable running costs directly attributable to specic properties within the Groups portfolio are charged to the income statement as other property expenses.
Costs incurred in the improvement of the portfolio which, in the opinion of the directors, are not of a capital nature are written off to the income statement as incurred.
Administration expenses Costs not directly attributable to individual properties are treated as administration expenses.
Share-based payment The cost of granting share-based payments to employees and directors is recognised within administration expenses in the income statement.
The Group has used the Stochastic model to value the grants which is dependent upon factors including the share price, expected volatility and vesting period and the resulting fair value is amortised through the income statement over the vesting period.
The charge is reversed if it is likely that any non-market based criteria will not be met.
Investment properties Investment properties, including those under development, are professionally valued each year, on a market value basis, and any surpluses or deficits arising are taken to the income statement.
Disposals of properties are recognised where contracts have been unconditionally exchanged during the accounting period and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the property have been transferred to the purchaser.
Depreciation In accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property, no depreciation is provided in respect of freehold investment properties and leasehold investment properties with over 20 years to run.
Depreciation is provided on plant and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the date of acquisition of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as follows: Fixtures and fittings over five years Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease.
Development properties Development properties are carried in property, plant and equipment and are professionally valued each year, on a market value basis, and any surpluses arising are taken to the revaluation reserve with any deficits below cost taken to the income statement.
A development property is one purchased for the purposes of development, redevelopment or substantial refurbishment with relatively little, or short-term, income whether planning permission exists or is still to be granted.
All directly attributable costs of bringing a property to a condition suitable for letting are capitalised into the cost of the property.
Once development is concluded, the property is transferred to investment property.
Any cumulative revaluation reserve in respect of that property is transferred to retained earnings.
