Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 71 Glossary Adjusted earnings per share REIT Earnings per share adjusted to exclude non-recurring items, Real Estate Investment Trust.
profits or losses on sales of investment properties and deferred tax on capital allowances and property revaluations Rent roll on a diluted basis.
The annual contracted rental income.
Adjusted net assets per share Return on capital employed ROCE NAV adjusted to exclude deferred tax on capital allowances and Return on capital employed is measured as profit before property revaluations on a diluted basis.
financing costs plus revaluation surplus on development property divided by the opening gross capital.
Diluted figures Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of potential Return on shareholders equity shares issuable under the convertible bond.
The growth in the adjusted diluted net assets per share plus dividends per share for the period expressed as a percentage Earnings per share EPS of the adjusted net assets per share at the beginning of Profit after tax divided by the weighted average number of the period.
Reversionary or under-rented EPRA adjustments The percentage by which ERV exceeds rents passing, together Standard calculation methods for adjusted EPS and adjusted with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
NAV as set out by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA in their January 2006 Best Practice and Reversionary yield Policy Recommendations.
The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the ERV.
Estimated rental value ERV The market rental value of lettable space as estimated by the Total property return TPR Companys valuers at each balance sheet date.
Capital growth in the like-for-like portfolio plus net rental income derived from holding these properties plus profit on IPD sale of disposals expressed as a percentage return on the The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a company periods opening value.
that produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
Total shareholder return TSR Like-for-like portfolio The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the Properties that have been held for the whole of the period of London Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for account.
the period expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
Market value The amount as estimated by the Companys valuers for which a Triple net asset value NNNAV property should exchange on the date of valuation between NAV adjusted to include the fair value of the Groups a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length financial liabilities on a diluted basis.
transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
True equivalent yield In line with market practice, values are stated net of The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash purchasers costs.
flows from an investment property, including current rent, reversions to current market rent and such items as voids and Net assets per share or net asset value NAV expenditures, equates to the market value.
Assumes rent is Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary received quarterly in advance.
shares at the balance sheet date.
Voids Net gearing The element of a property which is unoccupied but available for Total borrowings less short-term deposits and cash as a letting, usually expressed as the ERV of the void space divided percentage of equity shareholders funds.
by the existing rent roll plus the ERV of the void space.
Net initial yield Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC Annual net rents on investment properties as a percentage of The weighted average pre-tax cost of the Groups debt and the the investment property valuation.
notional cost of the Groups equity used as a benchmark to assess investment returns.
Portfolio internal rate of return IRR The rate of return that if used as a discount rate and applied to Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term WAULT the projected cash flows from the portfolio would result in a net The weighted average unexpired lease term expressed present value of zero.
