Directors responsibilities directOrs respOnsibilities in respect OF the preparatiOn OF the Financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, company law and relevant regulations.
They have chosen to continue to prepare the accounts for the Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definition and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: select and apply appropriate accounting policies: present relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information, including accounting policies: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
In the case of UK GAAP company accounts, the Directors are also required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently, to make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent and to state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
