Glossary of terms Adjusted figures Reported amounts adjusted to exclude certain non-recurring items as set out in note 10 to the accounts.
per share Anchor store A major store, usually a department store or supermarket, occupying a large unit within a shopping centre or retail park, which serves as a draw to other retailers and consumers.
Average cost The cost of finance expressed as a percentage of the weighted average of borrowings during the period.
of borrowing Capital return The change in value during the period for properties held at the balance sheet date, after taking account of capital expenditure and exchange translation movements, calculated on a monthly time weighted basis.
Dividend cover Adjusted earnings per share divided by dividend per share.
Earnings per share Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders divided by the average number of shares in issue during EPS the period.
EPRA European Public Real Estate Association.
This organisation has issued recommended bases for the calculation of earnings per share and net asset value per share.
ERv The estimated market rental value of the total lettable space in a property, after deducting head and equity rents, calculated by the groups valuers.
Gearing Net debt expressed as a percentage of equity shareholders funds.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
An organisation supplying independent market indices and portfolio benchmarks to the property industry.
Initial yield Annual cash rents receivable, net of head and equity rents and the cost of vacancy, as a percentage of property value.
Interest cover Net rental income divided by net cost of finance before capitalised interest, the change in fair value of interest rate swaps and bond redemption costs.
Interest rate and An agreement with another party to exchange an interest or currency rate obligation for a pre-determined period currency swap of time.
Like-for-like underlying The percentage change in rental income for completed investment properties owned throughout both current net rental income and prior periods, after taking account of exchange translation movements.
Loan to value ratio Borrowings and foreign currency swaps expressed as a percentage of the total value of investment and development properties.
Net asset value per Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of shares in issue at the balance sheet date.
share NAv Over-rented The amount by which ERV falls short of rents passing, together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
Pre-let A lease signed with a tenant prior to completion of a development.
REITs Real Estate Investment Trusts.
A tax regime which in the UK exempts participants from corporation tax both on UK rental income and gains arising on UK investment property sales, subject to certain requirements.
Rents passing The annual rental income receivable from an investment, after any rent-free periods and after deducting head and equity rents.
This may be more or less than the ERV see over-rented and reversionary or under-rented.
Return on Capital growth and profit for the year expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds at the beginning of the shareholders equity year, all excluding deferred tax.
Reversionary The amount by which the ERV exceeds the rents passing, together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
or under-rented SIIC Socits dInvestissements Immobiliers Ctes.
A French tax-exempt regime available to property companies listed in France.
Total development cost All capital expenditure on a development project, including capitalised interest.
Total return Net rental income and capital return expressed as a percentage of the opening book value of property adjusted for capital expenditure and exchange translation movements, calculated on a monthly time weighted basis.
Total shareholder Dividends and capital growth in the share price, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning return of the year.
True equivalent yield The average income return, reflecting the timing of future rental increases, based on current ERV, resulting from lettings, lease renewals and rent reviews, assuming rents are received quarterly in advance.
Turnover rent Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
vacancy rate The ERV of the area in a property, or portfolio, excluding developments, which is currently available for letting, expressed as a percentage of the total ERV of the property or portfolio.
yield on cost Rents passing expressed as a percentage of the total development cost of a property.
