N Sh oa te re s h to o ld th ee r a in cfcooru m na ts ti o continued n FINANCIAL CALENDAR Full-year results announced 26 February 2007 Annual General Meeting 3 May 2007 Recommended final dividend Ex-dividend date 11 April 2007 Record date 13 April 2007 Payable on 14 May 2007 Anticipated 2007 interim dividend October 2007 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting for 2007 will be held on 3 May 2007 at 10 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 4BJ.
Details of the Meeting and the resolutions to be voted upon can be found in the Notice of Meeting sent to all shareholders.
TAxATION For the purposes of computing capital gains tax, the value of the Companys shares on 31 March 1982, after adjustment for subsequent issues, was 290p for each ordinary share at that date and 315p for each share classified as A ordinary limited voting at that date.
The cost to be used by shareholders in computing the gain on any disposal of shares will, however, vary according to individual circumstances and shareholders should seek professional advice on the amount of tax that may arise.
REGISTRAR If you have any queries about the administration of shareholdings, such as lost share certificates, change of address, change of ownership or dividend payments please contact the Registrar: Capita Registrars The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Tel: 0870 162 3100 or 44 0 20 8639 2157 email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Registering on the Registrars website enables you to view your shareholding in Hammerson plc including an indicative share price and valuation, a transaction audit trail and dividend payment history.
PAyMENT OF DIvIDENDS TO MANDATED ACCOUNTS Shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid direct to a bank or building society account and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction available from the Companys Registrars on request or at www.
Under this arrangement, tax vouchers are sent to the shareholders registered address unless the shareholder requests otherwise.
MULTIPLE ACCOUNTS Shareholders who receive more than one copy of this Report may have more than one account in their name on the Companys register of members.
Any shareholder wishing to amalgamate their holdings should write to the Companys Registrars giving details of the accounts concerned and instructions on how they should be amalgamated.
CAPITA SHARE DEALING SERvICES An online and telephone dealing facility is available providing Hammerson shareholders with an easy to access and simple to use service.
There is no need to pre-register and there are no complicated forms to fill in.
The online and telephone dealing service allows you to trade real time at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
For further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, please contact: 0870 458 4577 telephone dealing 8.00am- 4.30pm Monday to Friday or go to www.
SHAREGIFT Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
Further information about ShareGift is available at www.
org or by writing to ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor Street, London, W1K 3HN.
To donate shares please contact Capita Registrars via the details given above.
