9placeVendme... acasestudy Hammerson secured access to the be uty nd historic l signific nce: the First The te ms t sk w s to h ndle symp thetic development opportunity at 9 place French Republic w s procl imed from the restor tion nd development of 9 pl ce er Vendme, Paris 1, in 1999.
Owner AXA b lcony of the Ch ncellery now tod ys Vendme to cre te n exception l property 2 REIM France, aware of Hammersons Ministry of Justice, next door to 9 pl ce consisting of 22,200m of prestigious office reputation for delivering complex Vendme.
H mmersons im w s schemes, approached the Company to to combine contempor ry design with the The squ re h s long been f mous for its enter into a joint venture agreement and finest technic l specific tion, whilst ret ining f shion ble shops nd exclusive hotels nd act as development manager for this its origin l rchitecture.
is currently home to the Ritz Hotel nd luxury sensitive project.
ret ilers including V n Cleef & Arpels, C rtier, During the project H mmerson w s sensitive The development of 9 pl ce Vendme Guerl in nd Ch nel.
The scheme would to the concerns of number of udiences presented highly ttr ctive opportunity constitute one of the l rgest developments including neighbouring occupiers.
Loc ted t the he rt of in the he rt of P ris, offering modern their support, H mmerson implemented P ris C rr dOr, pl ce Vendme is situ ted floorpl tes in n historic loc tion.
But it lso communic tion progr mme providing regul r between the rue fide C stiglione nd rue fide presented number of ch llenges, not le st upd tes to ten nts nd neighbours including l P ix.
Commissioned by King Louis XIV nd the rchitectur l sensitivity of the loc tion the Comit Vendme, Ministry of Justice nd built in 1 8, it is site of gre t rchitectur l nd the proximity of occupiers including the the City Council.
Ministry of Justice nd prim ry school.
Annual AnnualR Report eport2006 2006 As demonstr tion of its commitment defl ted t the end of e ch working d y rents.
These included intern tion l l w firms to corpor te responsibility, H mmerson to restore the views from the p rtment Clifford Ch nce nd Prosk uer Rose nd introduced number of techniques windows.
Unw nted on-site m teri ls luxury goods nd f shion ret ilers including to protect the neighbours nd environment.
Brooks Brothers, Anne Font ine, C ch rel Throughout the demolition process snow nd Hugo Boss.
The project gener ted H mmersons redevelopment of 9 pl ce c nnon w s inst lled on site, blowing development profit to H mmerson of Vendme w s completed in M y 200.
Due perm nent mist over the demolition zones 81 million or 94% comp red with cost.
to the qu lity of the building nd the success so th t dust would not f ll on dj cent sites.
of the te ms m rketing c mp ign, number A screen w s erected between the works of high-profile ten nts were secured t record nd the re r f c fide of the neighbouring p rtment building to protect inh bit nts from the noise of the building works.
The screen w s infl ted e ch morning nd Annual AnnualR Report eport2006 2006 Section 01 [ ]
