SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and interpretations adopted by the European Union and issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
At 31 December 2006, the following accounting standards had been issued but were not effective as at that date and have not yet been adopted by the group: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 8 Operating Segments When these standards are adopted they will affect only presentation and disclosure and will not result in any adjustments to the financial statements.
All other standards and interpretations issued but not effective at the balance sheet date are expected to have no material impact on the financial statements.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The financial statements are presented in sterling.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that investment and development properties, owner-occupied properties and derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently to the results, other gains and losses, assets, liabilities and cash flows of entities included in the consolidated financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Management believes that the estimates and associated assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements are reasonable.
However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period.
If the revision affects both current and future periods, the change is recognised over those periods.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the group.
Control is assumed when the group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity, or business, to benefit from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Where properties are acquired through corporate acquisitions and there are no significant assets or liabilities other than property, the acquisition is treated as an asset acquisition, in other cases the acquisition method is used.
Joint ventures Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the groups proportionate share of assets, liabilities, results and cash flows of joint ventures.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the acquired entity over the groups interest in the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reviewed.
Where the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is greater than the cost, the excess, known as negative goodwill, is recognised immediately in the income statement.
FOREIGN CURRENCy Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at exchange rates approximating to the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date and, unless they relate to the hedging of the net investment in foreign operations, differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The operating income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period.
Significant transactions, such as property sales, are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of each transaction.
The principal exchange rate used to translate foreign currency-denominated amounts in the balance sheet is the rate at the end of the year, 1 F1.484 2005: 1 F1.455.
The principal exchange rate used for the income statement is the average rate, 1 F1.467 2005: 1 F1.463.
