139 Business Analysis In this section we provide more detailed information about our major investment properties and facts and gures about the development programme and property outsourcing contracts to help you understand more about our business activities.
Introduction Retail Land Securities owns 220 investment properties across the UK and is delivering an extensive development programme as well as managing the property portfolios for six major occupiers, so we This business unit includes our shopping have tried to bring all of this activity to life in the following pages.
centres, retail warehouses, shops outside London, shops held through the Metro The images, key facts, occupier data, graphs and maps will hopefully give you a feel for what is Shopping Fund LP, regional ofces and important in our business and what we are doing that is different to others in the property industry.
We have split the portfolio into market sectors to assist with analysis and presented the information in different formats, by region for example, to make detailed analysis easier.
Land Securities sees itself London Portfolio as an industry leader and has provided examples of property activity which demonstrates how we are achieving this position.
This business unit includes all London ofces and retail, but excludes those assets held in The detailed list of major property holdings is no longer included in this section but you will nd it the Metro Shopping Fund LP on our website www.
com Portfolio valuation Combined portfolio valuation The value of the property interests in the combined portfolio, including a pro-rata share of our property joint ventures totalled 12,892.9m at 31 March 2006 31 March 2005: 9,365.8m.
Detailed breakdowns by sector, including comprehensive analyses of the Groups valuation, rental 12.9bn income and yield proles follow in the investment portfolio analysis.
The aggregate of the Market Values of those properties held by the Group, excluding joint ventures, as at 31 March 2006 was 11,619.0m 31 March 2005: 8,371.9m.
Retail The valuation of the freehold and leasehold properties at 31 March 2006 was undertaken by London Portfolio 5.9 6.9 Other Knight Frank LLP as External Valuer.
The valuations were in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Appraisal and Valuation Standards and the International Valuation Standards.
The valuation of each property was on the basis of Market Value, subject to the assumptions that investment properties would be sold subject to any existing leases and that properties held for development would be sold with vacant possession in existing condition.
The Valuers opinion of Market Value was primarily derived using comparable recent market transactions on arms length terms.
