159 Glossary Adjusted earnings per share EPS Interest rate swap Rental value growth Earnings per share based on revenue profit plus profits on trading A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an Increase in the current rental value, as determined by the Companys valuers, over the 12 month period on a like-for-like properties and long-term development contracts.
interest rate obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
are used by the Group to convert oating rate debt to xed rates.
Adjusted net asset value NAV per share NAV per share adjusted to add back deferred tax associated with Investment portfolio Resolution to grant planning consent investment properties and capitalised interest, the adjustment The investment portfolio comprises our wholly-owned investment The formal resolution by a local planning authority to grant arising from the fide-recognition of the bond exchange, together properties together with the properties held for development but planning permission, usually conditional upon the completion of with cumulative mark-to-market adjustment arising on interest excludes Land Securities Trillium properties.
a section 106 or other legal agreement.
swaps and similar instruments used for hedging purposes.
Joint venture Retail Average unexpired lease term An entity in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term This business includes our shopping centres, shops, retail Excludes short-term lettings such as car parks and advertising basis and is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more warehouse properties and assets held in retail joint ventures but hoardings, residential leases and long ground leases.
venturers under a contractual arrangement whereby decisions on financial and operating policies essential to the operation, Balanced scorecard Retail park performance and financial position of the venture require each An approach to strategic management developed in the early A scheme of three or more retail warehouse units aggregating venturers consent.
Robert Kaplan and David Norton to translate an over 4,650m with shared parking.
organisations vision into a set of performance indicators LIBOR distributed among four perspectives: Financial, Customer, Internal Return on average capital employed The London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate charged by Business Processes, and Learning and Growth.
Group profit before interest, plus joint venture profit before tax, one bank to another for lending money.
divided by the average capital employed dened as Book value shareholders funds plus net debt.
Like-for-like portfolio The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported in the Properties that have been in the investment or combined portfolio financial statements.
Return on average equity for the whole of the current and previous financial year.
Group profit before tax plus joint venture tax divided by the CABE average equity shareholders funds.
London Portfolio Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment CABE.
This business includes all London ofces and London retail, but Revenue profit excludes those assets held in the Metro Shopping Fund LP.
Combined portfolio profit before tax, excluding profits on the sale of xed asset and The combined portfolio is our wholly-owned investment trading properties, profits on long-term development contracts, portfolio combined with our share of the value of properties held Mark-to-market adjustment revaluation surpluses, mark-to-market adjustments on interest in joint ventures.
Unless stated these are the pro-forma numbers An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset rate swaps and similar instruments used for hedging purposes, or liability to its market value.
we use when discussing the investment property business.
the adjustment to interest payable resulting from the amortisation of the bond exchange fide-recognition and any Development pipeline Net asset value NAV per share exceptional items.
The Groups development programme together with any Total equity divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue at proposed schemes that are not yet included in the development the period end.
Reversionary or under-rented programme but which are more likely to proceed than not.
Space where the passing rent is below the ERV.
Open A1 planning consent Development programme Planning permission for the retail sale of any goods.
Reversionary yield The Groups development programme comprises projects which The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise once the are completed but less than 95% let: developments on site: Open market value rent reaches the ERV.
committed developments being projects which are approved and Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the the building contract let : and authorised developments those Section 106 agreement sale of an interest in the property would complete projects approved by the Board for which the building contract An agreement, under the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation has not yet been let.
For reporting purposes we retain properties between a local planning authority and a developer negotiated in as determined by the Groups external valuers.
In accordance in the programme until they are 95% let.
the context of granting planning permission.
It provides a means with usual practice, the Groups external valuers report valuations of ensuring that developers contribute towards infrastructure and net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, Development surplus services that the local authority believes to be necessary to including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
Excess of latest valuation over the total development cost TDC.
Contributions may either be in cash or in kind.
Operating properties Diluted gures Properties acquired and managed by Land Securities Trillium as Reported amount adjusted to include the effects of potential Total business return part of its property outsourcing contracts with third parties and shares issuable under employee share schemes.
Dividend per share, plus the increase in adjusted diluted net asset which do not meet the accounting denition of investment value per share, divided by the adjusted diluted net asset value property.
Earnings per share EPS per share at the beginning of the period.
profit after taxation attributable to ordinary shareholders divided Other investment portfolio by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue Total development cost TDC This comprises all other investment properties not included in during the year.
All capital expenditure on a project including the opening book Retail or London Portfolio.
value of the property on commencement of development, Equivalent yield together with all finance costs less residential proceeds.
The internal rate of return from an investment property, based on Outline planning consent the gross outlays for the purchase of a property including This gives consent in principle for a development, and covers Total property return purchase costs, reecting reversions to current market rent, and matters such as use and building mass.
Full details of the Valuation surplus, profit loss on property sales and net rental such items as voids and expenditures but disregarding potential development scheme must be provided in an application for full income in respect of investment properties expressed as a changes in market rents and reecting the actual cash ow rents.
planning consent, including detailed design, external appearance percentage of opening book value of the investment property and landscaping before a project can proceed.
planning permission will lapse if full planning permission is not Estimated rental value ERV granted within three years.
Total shareholder return The estimated market rental value of lettable space as The growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, determined biannually by the Companys valuers.
This will Over-rented assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional normally be different to the rent being paid.
Space that is let at a rent above its ERV.
Exceptional item Passing rent Trading properties An item of income or expense that is deemed to be sufciently Properties held for trading purposes and shown as current assets The annual rental income receivable which may be more or less material to require separate disclosure.
than the ERV see over-rented and reversionary.
Finance lease Turnover rent Public Private Partnership PPP A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
A partnership that brings together, for mutual benefit, a public ownership from the lessor to the lessee.
body and a private company in a long-term joint venture for the Unitary charge purpose of delivering public projects or services.
Flexible accommodation allowance The basic payment received by Land Securities Trillium under a Allowance agreed between a property outsourcing client and property outsourcing contract.
Pre-let Land Securities Trillium, to vacate a given amount of oor space A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a or to expand over the life of the contract.
The area in a property or portfolio, excluding developments, Gearing net which is currently available for letting.
Total borrowings, including bank overdrafts, less short-term Private Finance Initiative PFI deposits, corporate bonds and cash, at book value, plus non-equity A particular form of PPP, that is a government or public authority Weighted average cost of capital WACC initiative to acquire private nancing for public sector shareholders funds as a percentage of equity shareholders funds.
Weighted average of cost of debt and notional cost of equity, infrastructure.
used as a benchmark to assess investment returns.
Gross income yield The annual net rent on investment properties expressed as a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Yield shift percentage of the valuation ignoring costs of purchase or sale.
In the context of the draft legislation for the introduction of REITs A movement negative or positive in the equivalent yield of a in the UK, a REIT must be a publicly quoted company with at property asset.
Head lease least three quarters of its profits derived from a qualifying A lease under which the Group holds an investment property.
Income and capital gains from the property rental business will be exempt from tax but the REIT will A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail Initial yield be required to distribute a significant proportion of those profits space by dividing it into zones parallel with the main frontage.
Annualised net rents on investment properties expressed as a to shareholders.
Corporation tax will be payable on The most valuable zone, Zone A, is at the front of the unit.
Each percentage of the valuation.
successive zone is valued at half the rate of the zone in front of it.
non-qualifying activities in the normal way.
