103 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 GLOSSARY OF TERMS The Group Constant currency results Aegis Group plc and its subsidiaries.
Constant currency results are calculated by restating prior year local currency amounts using current year exchange Aegis Media rates.
The media services division of Aegis Group plc.
Underlying results Synovate Underlying operating profit, underlying profit before tax The market research division of Aegis Group plc.
and underlying profit after tax are operating profit, profit before tax and profit after tax respectively, stated before Billings those items of financial performance that the Group The annualised value of media purchased and or believes should be separately disclosed to assist in the managed on behalf of clients, before agency discounts.
understanding of the underlying performance achieved by the Group and its businesses adjusting items.
Turnover Represents amounts invoiced for media handled by the Such adjusting items are material by nature or amount in Group on behalf of clients, together with fees invoiced for the opinion of the directors and may include impairment media and research services provided.
charges, profits and losses on disposals of investments, amortisation of purchased intangible assets, unrealised Revenue gains and losses on non-hedge derivative financial The value of media and research fees and commission instruments, fair value gains and losses on liabilities in earned by the Group.
respect of put option agreements, and other exceptional items which are material by nature or amount in the Gross profit opinion of the directors, and any related tax thereon, as Media and research income after deduction of all direct appropriate.
Adjusting items may also include specific tax items such Gross margin as the benefit arising on the reduction of certain tax Gross profit stated as a percentage of turnover.
liabilities in a particular half-year period and deferred tax liabilities for tax deductions taken in respect of goodwill, Operating profit where a deferred tax liability is recognised even if such a Gross profit less operating expenses.
liability would only unwind on the eventual sale or impairment of the business in question.
Operating margin Operating profit stated as a percentage of revenue.
Adjusting items are classified as operating, non-operating and financing according to the nature of the underlying Net new business income or expense.
The annualised value of media billings gained less the annualised value of media billings lost.
Goodwill The difference between the fair value of purchase Reported growth consideration of a business as a whole and the Reported growth represents the year on year growth aggregate fair value of its separable net assets.
including the effect of new businesses acquired or disposed of during the year and movements in exchange Minority interests rates.
Partial ownership of subsidiary undertakings by external shareholders.
Organic growth Organic growth represents year on year growth after adjusting for the effect of businesses acquired or disposed of since the beginning of the prior year.
104 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Design by Merchant in collaboration with Ammunition.
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park Communications is certified to ISO 14001:2004 standards for its Environmental Management System and is a CarbonNeutral printer.
The Pantone special inks used in printing this report are made from 100% vegetable based oil.
95% of the cleaning solvents used are recycled for further use.
Electricity used in the printing process is generated from renewable sources and on average 99% of any waste associated with this Cert no.
