87 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Shareholder information Registrars and transfer office Warning about unsolicited investment contacts All matters relating to the administration of shareholdings should be Over the last year many companies have become aware that their directed to Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, telephone within the UK: 0870 162 3100 concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based and from overseas: 44 20 8639 2157: email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
Shareholders that receive duplicate mailings because they have multiple Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, holdings can write to the Registrars requesting that the holdings be offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
com shareholders and following the link to The Share Portal, shareholders can access a If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: range of online services including registering to receive future corporate Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
Registration will require input of investor codes.
Check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Services Shareholders are advised to refer to their share certificates for details.
Share dealing service The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas Compass Group has arranged share dealing services with Capita firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any Registrars which provides a telephone and online share dealing service approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so for UK resident shareholders in Compass Group.
To deal, shareholders that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action must provide details of surname, postcode, date of birth and investor can be considered.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would code set out in share certificates.
To use the service telephone 0870 458 not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services 4577 or visit www.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Inform our Registrars Compliance Department on 020 8639 2041 Compass Group has introduced corporate sponsored Maxi and Mini or email compliance@capitaregistrars.
The ISAs offer UK resident shareholders a simple low-cost and tax efficient way to invest in the Companys shares.
Full details together More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the with a form of application are available from HSBC Trust Company FSA website www.
UK Limited, Corporate Personal Equity Plans & Individual Savings Accounts, 1st Floor, Courtwood House, Silver Street Head, Sheffield Unsolicited mail S1 2BH, telephone 0845 745 6123.
Compass Group is legally obliged to make its register of members available to the public.
As a consequence of this some shareholders Share price information might have received unsolicited mail.
Shareholders wishing to limit the The current price of Compass Group shares is available on amount of such mail should write to the Mailing Preference Service, Ceefax, Teletext, FTCityline operated by the Financial Times, FREEPOST 29, LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
Alternatively, telephone 0906 843 3250 and Compass Groups corporate website.
shareholders may register online at www.
org-uk or request an application form by calling 0845 703 4599.
ShareGift Number of Shares ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders Number of Holders shares held held administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is particularly Shareholder analysis holders % millions % useful for those shareholders that may wish to dispose of a small Type of holder: quantity of shares where the market value makes it uneconomic to Individuals 66,158 91.5 88 4.2 sell on a commission basis.
Further information can be obtained from ShareGift telephone 020 7337 0501 or from its website Institutional & other investors 6,109 8.5 2,011 95.8 www.
Total 72,267 100.0 2,099 100.0 Size of holding: American Depositary Receipts ADRs 1 100 13,841 19.2 1 0.0 Compass Group has an ADR programme.
Each ADR is equivalent to one Compass Group ordinary share and trades under the symbol 101 200 11,758 16.3 2 0.1 CMPGY.
Further information can be obtained from The Bank of 201 500 17,853 24.7 6 0.3 New York, Investor Relations, PO Box 11258, Church Street Station, 501 1,000 11,879 16.4 9 0.4 New York, NY 10286-1258, telephone: within the US toll free 1-888 BNY-ADRs and from overseas 1 212 815 3700, email: 1,001 2,000 8,575 11.9 12 0.6 shareowners@bankofny.
com and from websites: www.
com Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP Hill House 1 Little New Street London EC4A 3TA Financial Advisors Citigroup Citigroup Centre 33 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5LB Legal Advisors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 65 Fleet Street London EC4Y 1HS Registrars Capita Registrars The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Stockbrokers Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited 25 Cabot Square Canary Wharf London E14 4QA Merrill Lynch International Merrill Lynch Financial Centre 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ Designed & produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 Printed in the UK by St Ives Westerham Press This report is printed on paper and board made from virgin wood fibre from elemental chlorine-free pulps ECF sourced from fully sustainable forests in Portugal, Spain and Chile.
The manufacturing mill is fully integrated it owns its own wood supply, manufactures its own wood pulp and operates its own electricity generating plant, and holds the ISO 14001 environmental accreditation.
Our printers are fully accredited to the ISO 14001 environmental management system and are a CarbonNeutral company.
They utilise vegetable based inks and operate a direct computer to plate repro system, eliminating the need for film with its chemicals such as developer and acid fixers.
Registered Office: Compass Group PLC Compass House Guildford Street Chertsey Surrey KT16 9BQ United Kingdom Tel 44 0 1932 573 000 Fax 44 0 1932 569 956 www.
com Annual Review 2006 Group at a glance Our business Market overview and trends How we work Overview We provide contract We work in partnership with our clients, Contract foodservice and support services offer usually on their premises, utilising their significant growth opportunities.
foodservice and support equipment and facilities to provide foodservice services to clients in and support services solutions tailored to the The global contract foodservice market has an needs of consumers.
approximate value of 150 billion with around over 70 countries.
50% outsourced to contractors like Compass and Contracts with our clients are usually based our market grows at around 5% a year.
around one of four models: The support services market including catering, Management fee soft services such as cleaning and hard services All of the operating costs are paid by the such as building maintenance has an approximate contractor and recharged to the client along value of 700 billion.
Circa 35% of this is with an agreed fee.
This type of arrangement is outsourced to contractors with the outsourcing most often used where the client is subsidising market projected to grow at around 10% a year.
Trends Fixed price Both the markets in which we operate have The client pays an agreed price for a specified significant growth potential.
The trend by range of services.
This may be varied, organisations over the last decade to reduce for example, if the number of consumers subsidies and to outsource their foodservice changes considerably.
Clients are moving away from management fee contracts to Profit & loss arrangements where the contractor bears the The foodservice contractor has control over risk.
Approximately 70% of our contracts are the offer to the consumer and sets the price.
now fixed price or profit & loss.
This means that This type of arrangement usually occurs where we have to adopt different operating disciplines there is little or no client subsidy.
that are more retail orientated in order to grow profitability and returns for shareholders.
Concessions The foodservice contractor pays an agreed We are also seeing organisations accelerate percentage of revenue for the right to trade at the consolidation of a range of support services the clients premises.
This type of arrangement such as cleaning and reception as well as catering is widely used in the leisure sector.
We are ideally placed to offer an integrated solution to clients.
Our challenge is to leverage these growth opportunities profitably and sustainably in order to create value for shareholders.
Our market sectors Focused businesses operating in clearly defined Education Where there is a demand we can also offer market sectors.
From nursery schools to the worlds vending across any of our six market sectors.
most prestigious universities, we offer We operate in six clearly defined market sectors: tasty and nutritious food for tomorrows healthy generations.
Business & Industry Vending We are the world leader in providing a Sports & Leisure An integral part of the food and beverage wide range of consumer-facing foodservice From local museums to the most famous operation for most modern organisations.
solutions to people at their place of work.
sporting and iconic cultural venues, we We provide high quality and innovative provide foodservice solutions for consumers vending solutions for customers across the Fine Dining and corporate events.
We have an unrivalled reputation for fine dining in corporate boardrooms and at Defence, Offshore & Remote sites prestigious social and hospitality events In difficult and often inhospitable around the world.
environments we provide an integrated range of foodservice and support services on Healthcare & Seniors offshore oil and gas rigs, major construction This is the most sophisticated and sites and at remote mining locations.
demanding market in which we operate.
Success requires the highest standards of customer service and food safety plus a detailed understanding of the nutritional needs of those we care for.
Global reach Group North America Continental Europe United Kingdom Rest of the World Our aim is to be the premium operator Group revenue Split of revenue Split of revenue Split of revenue Split of revenue in the global contract catering and 10,815m 4,290m 2,863m 1,957m 1,705m support services markets.
2005: 10,073m 2005: 3,761m 2005: 2,830m 2005: 1,982m 2005: 1,500m North America Rest of the World USA Latin America Total operating profit Split of operating profit Split of operating profit Split of operating profit Split of operating profit Canada Argentina Brazil 508m 246m 169m 115m 55m UK and Ireland Chile United Kingdom Colombia 2005: 496m 2005: 218m 2005: 169m 2005: 114m 2005: 53m Republic of Ireland Costa Rica Mexico Continental Europe Peru All figures based on continuing operations.
2005 figures are restated to IFRS.
Austria Venezuela Before exceptional items and including profit of associates.
Belgium Croatia Middle East Cyprus and Africa Czech Republic Algeria Denmark Angola Estonia Azerbaijan Finland Botswana France Egypt Germany Gabon Greece Ghana Hungary Israel Iceland Kazakhstan Italy Malawi Kosovo Mali Latvia Mozambique Lithuania Namibia Luxembourg Nigeria Netherlands Oman Norway Qatar Poland South Africa Portugal Sudan Romania Turkey Slovakia UAE Spain Zambia Sweden Switzerland Asia Pacific Australia Bangladesh China East Timor Hong Kong India Indonesia Japan Malaysia Mongolia New Zealand Papua New Guinea Philippines Russia Singapore Thailand Operating Market sector Operating Market sector Sector operating companies company and region company and region Unrivalled expertise from sector-leading brands.
We are unique in having a sector-focused approach to developing specialised solutions to our clients foodservice and support services needs.
For our clients this has the benefits of giving them access to unrivalled experience, tailored solutions relevant to their specific needs and specialist employee skills.
Where there is sufficient market density in a country we have a portfolio of companies that operate in specific market sectors e. g. Eurest in Business & Industry.
North America Continental Europe United Kingdom Rest of the World In countries that do not yet have critical mass we have a single operating company providing multi-sector solutions e. g. Onama in Italy or Seiyo in Japan.
4 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 01 How our values help drive value 02 Delivering greater shareholder value 03 Thinking and acting like one business 04 The results so far 01 Our values 27 Independent auditors 02 Chairmans statement statement to the 04 Chief Executives members of Compass statement Group PLC 06 Summary operating 28 Consolidated income review statement 15 Acting responsibly 28 Consolidated statement in business of recognised income 16 Summary financial and expense review 29 Consolidated balance 19 Board of directors sheet 20 Corporate governance 30 Consolidated cash flow Chairmans Q&A statement 21 Summary directors 30 Reconciliation of free report cash flow from 22 Summary corporate continuing operations governance report 31 Summary notes to the 23 Summary directors financial statements remuneration report 36 Shareholder information Front cover image Inside front cover image With increased consumer demand We are at the forefront for all-day dining and healthy of developing tasty and eating we are adopting retail nutritious offers for orientated disciplines.
01 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Because of our shared values, everyone in Compass is committed to consistently delivering superior service in the most efficient way to create value for our 01 customers, shareholders and employees.
How our values help drive value We are specialists who help clients either Our values Financial highlights 2006 outsource or establish a foodservice or support These define what, collectively, we believe service, or sometimes both, to suit their needs.
in and govern the way we behave: Group revenue How we do that draws on our global resources Openness, trust and integrity 10,815m 2005: 10,073m and our understanding of different cultures and We set the highest ethical and professional market sectors.
We work in partnership with our standards at all times.
We want all our Total operating profit clients, usually in their premises.
And by using relationships to be based on honesty, respect, their facilities and equipment we keep capital fairness and a commitment to open dialogue 508m 2005: 496m investment to an absolute minimum.
Basic earnings per share Looking at the world map today shows how Passion for quality 11.4p 2005: 10.9p far we have come since 1992.
We have grown We are passionate about delivering superior from a domestic operator to a global player.
food and service and take pride in achieving this.
Free cash flow That journey has given us a great platform We look to replicate success, learn from mistakes to build on and enabled us to benefit from and develop the ideas, innovation and practices 265m 2005: 227m opportunities far and wide.
Making the most that will help us improve and lead our market.
of these opportunities starts, as ever, by being Return on capital employed clear about why we are in business.
Win through teamwork We encourage individual ownership, but work 10.7% 2005: 10.7% Our aim is to be the premium operator in the as a team.
We value the expertise, individuality contract foodservice and support services market and contribution of all our colleagues, working All figures based on continuing operations.
with an outstanding reputation for quality, value in support of each other and readily share 2005 figures are restated to IFRS.
Before exceptional items, including profit of associates.
for money and client and consumer satisfaction.
good practice, in pursuit of shared goals.
Before exceptional items and hedge accounting ineffectiveness.
To achieve this means maintaining our market Responsibility leading positions in the worlds key regions with We take responsibility for our actions, major brands in our chosen business sectors.
But individually and as a Group.
Everyday, it also means applying fresh thinking to the way everywhere we look to make a positive we run our business, re-energising the talents contribution to the health and wellbeing that have made us a leader while looking at new of our customers, the communities we ways of maximising value from our core work in and the world we live in.
Can-do We have to be more disciplined simplifying We take a positive and commercially aware what we do and how we do it.
Focusing on our can-do approach to the opportunities and core contract catering operations.
client relationships by growing the range of our support services.
Maximising synergies for clients, organic profit growth for us and enhanced value for our shareholders.
The whole organisation is focused on achieving this and our vision encapsulates this common purpose.
Quite simply we aspire to be a world-class provider of contract foodservice and support services, renowned for our great people, our great service, and our great results.
02 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Chairmans statement Our priority is to manage your business with the creation of shareholder value 02 firmly at the top of the agenda.
Delivering greater shareholder value Sir Roy Gardner Chairman Our strategy Focused on our contract foodservice business.
Growing our support services business.
Committed to giving our customers superior levels of service.
Focusing on driving cost efficiencies.
03 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 I was delighted to take over as Chairman Management ESS, Compass and various ESS staff.
Though of Compass in July.
Since becoming Chairman I have looked at the these claims would have been resolutely We have a significant presence in the countries management skills needed to meet the future defended we decided that it was in the best and sectors in which we want to trade.
Our needs of the business.
I have begun a process interests of the on-going business and people are passionate about what they do and of re-invigorating the Board.
shareholders to settle these claims without are proud to work for us.
We also continue to prolonged litigation.
In October, with no achieve excellent levels of contract retention During the year Sir Francis Mackay, Chairman, admission of legal liability, we reached final demonstrating that we have a satisfied client base.
and Michael Bailey, Chief Executive, left the settlement of all claims for less than Company.
On behalf of the Board I would 40 million.
We continue to cooperate fully These are solid foundations on which to build.
like to acknowledge their role in establishing with the relevant UN and US authorities in Our priority now is to create value for Compass Group as the global leader in their on-going investigations.
Our people During the year we took the actions necessary In June we appointed Richard Cousins, This has been another tough year for our to improve our future performance.
We have previously Chief Executive of BPB plc, as people.
They have supported one another as we streamlined and reshaped the management our new Group Chief Executive.
Richards have taken the actions necessary to improve our team to better reflect the needs of the business.
track record in operational management, performance and restore our reputation.
They We have improved financial discipline and business transformation and the creation of have also acted professionally to produce the governance right across the Group, giving shareholder value has already been invaluable highest level of customer service.
On behalf of the Board much better visibility as to the in mapping out the Groups future strategy.
the Board I want to record our appreciation performance of the business.
of their continued dedication and commitment.
In December Val Gooding will step down In June we sold our travel concessions business, from the Board after seven years.
On behalf Outlook Select Service Partner SSP, for 1.8 billion.
of the directors I would like to thank Val for The results we have reported for 2006 are a This disposal will enable us to focus on our the enormous dedication and commitment benchmark from which to measure our future contract catering operations and exploit the she has shown to the Group.
Fundamental changes have been significant growth opportunities in support made during the year, including new leadership, services.
Peter Cawdron, who has been a member of a comprehensive review of the business, and the Board since 1993 and is currently Deputy establishing clear strategic priorities for the In November we announced our plan to sell Chairman and Senior Independent Director, future.
We have improved financial discipline our European vending business, Selecta.
As the will retire from the Board at the Annual General and governance across the Group and we are business derives only 9% of its revenue from Meeting in February.
I would like to thank Peter now well placed to leverage the significant our contract foodservice clients, it is not a core on behalf of the Board for his outstanding opportunities our global platform gives us.
These part of our operations.
contribution to the Group and on a personal actions will, in the years ahead, improve our note for the support he has given me since performance and deliver value for shareholders.
These actions provide the basis for improving taking over as Chairman.
I am delighted to welcome two new additions Strategy to the Board.
Sir Ian Robinson, formerly The creation of shareholder value is our priority.
Chief Executive of Scottish Power and Contract foodservice offers attractive and currently Chairman of Ladbrokes plc Sir Roy Gardner sustainable growth potential which, allied to formerly Hilton Group plc and a Director Chairman support services, represents our core activities.
of Siemens Holdings plc will join the Board 29 November 2006 The business model is sound and our focus now as a non-executive director on 1 December.
is on better executing our strategy to deliver His experience of developing international sustainable growth and profits.
We will do this businesses will be enormously valuable to us.
by growing our business in a more disciplined way, continuing to give our customers superior Gary Green will join the Board as an executive Full year dividend levels of service whilst being focused on driving director on 1 January 2007.
He has been at cost efficiencies for the shared benefit of our Compass for over 20 years and has successfully 10.1 pence 3% customers, shareholders and employees.
led the development of our business in North America since 1999.
Sale of SSP Returns to shareholders The Board is proposing a final dividend of Corporate governance 1.8bn 6.7 pence per share for payment in March 2007, The way the Group is managed has been a bringing our full year dividend to 10.1 pence, matter of concern for shareholders.
During the a year-on-year increase of 3%.
Whilst we year I have taken a number of decisive steps to Compass share price performance remain committed to growing the dividend in improve corporate governance.
We have put in vs FTSE 100 2006 real terms, our objective over the medium term place more robust centralised controls to ensure Compass Group is to move the dividend cover more towards the effective decision making.
I have also established 300 FTSE 100 Index two times level.
a sub-committee of the Board to focus on 280 corporate responsibility.
Its terms of reference 260 In June 2006 on completion of the sale of our include looking at all aspects of business 240 travel concessions business, SSP, we commenced conduct, safety, health and environmental a 500 million on the market share buy-back management, and responsible business practice.
As of 30 September 2006 we had 200 purchased shares for cancellation to the value United Nations 180 of 149 million.
This has been an unfortunate episode in the 160 Groups history.
The Board has instituted a 30 09 30 11 31 01 31 03 31 05 31 07 29 09 Once the planned sale of Selecta is completed, number of changes to control procedures as a 2005 2005 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 our aim will be to achieve a balanced use of the result of the lessons we have learned.
In March The FTSE 100 index has been rebased to the Compass net proceeds and this will include an extension 2006 two competing food companies brought Group share price on 30 September 2005 206.25 pence.
of the current share buy-back programme.
US lawsuits totalling some 600 million against 04 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Chief Executives statement Our objective is to maximise shareholder value through delivering profitable and 03 sustainable growth in our chosen markets.
Thinking and acting like one business Richard Cousins Group Chief Executive Profit drivers We are focused on two elements of the income and expenditure account revenue growth and cost efficiencies.
Revenue growth Client sales and Consumer sales marketing and marketing Greater financial performance drives shareholder value Cost efficiencies Food costs Unit costs Above unit overheads 05 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 First impressions our contract foodservice clients.
We have Focus on management and In my first three months I visited 15 of our decided that this business is not a core part of performance MAP largest countries and received presentations on our operations and will be sold.
We will continue I have dismantled the divisional structure so a further 30 key markets.
It is clear to me that to offer European clients an appropriate vending that we have greater visibility of the underlying our customer service is excellent and that our solution when they require it.
New monthly people are committed and passionate about reporting processes and regular business reviews what they do.
We have strong client relationships The sale of Selecta following other disposals with country management teams will ensure and market leading positions in our core such as SSP, Moto and Au Bon Pain and that all of us are constantly focused on the markets.
We also have a global footprint that the gradual withdrawal from a number of same things.
As part of this process the five should enable us to leverage our scale and small countries will mark the end of a phase profit drivers outlined previously are being expertise to develop growth for the future.
From this new, tighter core orchestrated into a global performance Compass will be able to grow in a sustainable framework called MAP.
Local managing Hence my conclusion is that fundamentally way.
Capital expenditure, which three years directors are empowered to run their business this is a good business with a sound strategy.
ago exceeded 300 million a year will, for within clearly defined corporate governance However, the model has been a little the next two-three years, be held at circa rules and MAP.
overstretched and in some parts of the world 2% of revenue a year.
governance and control have been lacking.
The actions that have already been taken to We therefore need to create a more intensive Profit drivers improve financial discipline and governance performance culture.
This implies the need Our objective over the next two-three years will are focusing management on value creation.
to support customers locally but asking our be to drive disciplined profitable growth with the There are three simple questions that managers managers across the world to operate within focus more on organic growth and much less at all levels in the business are beginning to use simple global frameworks.
We seek intelligent on acquisitions.
Within that philosophy we will in their decision making.
Does it fit with our top-line growth and a more disciplined approach drive performance by concentrating upon five strategy?
What are the risks and rewards?
to reducing our global cost base.
simple profit drivers: Does it create value for shareholders?
Very simply we need to build on our strengths Client sales and marketing: winning new Through creating a performance-driven culture and correct our weaknesses.
We have to create business is, and will continue to be, a clear we are increasing the focus and intensity with a management and performance culture that strength for Compass.
However, as we improve which we manage the business to deliver value has at its core the delivery of profitable growth discipline and focus on unit margins, organic for shareholders.
Aligning the growth rates may, for a period, slow a little business around this single unifying objective is before increasing back to trend rates.
We will Conclusion the priority for me and my management team.
work closely with clients to deliver like-for-like 2006 has been a transitional year for Compass revenue growth seeking to balance the needs against which we can benchmark our Business strategy of value for money, efficiency and a fair reward performance.
To be successful we must deliver the highest for a job well done.
In the medium-long term, quality and performance, whilst relentlessly we will work harder to demonstrate to potential By stepping up the intensity with which we driving to be the lowest cost, most efficient clients the benefits of outsourcing.
manage the performance of the business, provider.
Our focus going forward will be and with a disciplined focus on the key profit on the creation of real shareholder value Consumer sales and marketing: we will seek drivers, we are well placed to create and deliver delivered in a disciplined and sustainable way.
a more innovative approach to our consumers sustainable shareholder value.
improving the quality of our offer, restaurant At the moment we trade in too many countries designs and point of sale displays.
Like-forwhere future growth prospects do not offer like volume growth will be an important key adequate returns.
Over the next 12 months we performance indicator and where we face will reduce the number of countries we operate inflationary cost pressures we will seek in to 60-65. reasonable price increases.
Richard Cousins Group Chief Executive Our core business will remain contract Food cost: we spend over 3.5 billion a year 29 November 2006 foodservice.
We are focused on it and excited on food.
Our objective must be to procure the by the opportunity.
The market is some optimal quality and range of food to meet 150 billion in size and, with outsourced the needs of our customers at the lowest cost.
penetration still at around 50%, our market This means having an efficient supply chain grows at about 5% a year.
that leverages our scale whilst being much more disciplined about rationalising our supplier and There is clearly a growing trend amongst product base.
Driving in-unit compliance with some clients to source catering and other approved purchasing lists through a much more support services, such as cleaning, from a single systematic approach to menu planning and provider.
This market, including catering, has portion control will be critical.
a value of around 700 billion, and with circa 35% outsourced, growing at around 10% a year.
Unit costs: we spend nearly 6 billion a year Support services already account for around on unit costs.
We will work closely with clients 10% of our revenue and we are ideally placed and employees to improve labour scheduling Effective decision making to leverage our existing client relationships to and efficiency and to reduce unit overheads.
To help us make the right operational decisions, offer them integrated food and support services.
we use a simple process that confirms value We will only do this, though, where it makes Above unit overheads: we lose too much of genuinely exists.
sense and enhances value for shareholders.
our unit profit to overheads.
We need a simpler model with fewer layers of management and Does it fit with our strategy?
Offering clients an integrated foodservice and less bureaucracy.
This year we have achieved vending solution has been a key competitive our target of 50 million of overhead savings What are the risks and rewards?
Our European and are seeking a similar reduction once again vending business, Selecta, though highly in 2007.
Thereafter, the drive for overhead Does it create value for shareholders?
profitable, only has 9% of its revenues with efficiency will continue.
06 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary operating review worth $47 million in annual revenues and a 10-year extension to Chartwells contract with Florida Atlantic University worth $9 million in annual revenues.
04 North America We continued to focus on profitability and Our business in North America has had another working capital management to drive The results so far excellent year as we continue to leverage the improvements in return on capital employed.
leading positions we have established in each of our chosen market sectors.
We also completed the acquisition of the remaining 51% of Levy Restaurants for Market position and trends $250 million.
Through our portfolio of specialist operating companies we are the largest contract Canteen, the worlds largest route vending foodservice company in the USA and Canada.
company, completed the rollout of its I-vend route accountability and cash control system The largest market in the world, North America which is reducing shrinkage and improving remains a significant opportunity with around labour efficiency.
The most attractive future growth opportunities are in Healthcare Product and service development and Education, where less than 40% of the During the year 203 senior executives have North America contract gains market is outsourced.
been through an intensive two-day training programme, Managing for Value, designed Bon Apptit Management Company and Chartwells In Business & Industry despite the relative to develop their strategic thinking and improve have won a five-year contract with Duke University maturity of the market there are still significant cash management and return on capital worth $10 million in annual revenues.
opportunities to drive volumes and spend per employed in their businesses.
Morrison and Canteen have won a 10-year contract As part of our commitment to tackling childhood with the State University of New York Health Sciences Healthy eating is the dominant consumer obesity we have developed a nutritional awareness worth $7 million in annual revenues.
Concerns over obesity and the programme, Eat, Learn, Live, specifically for In Canada, Eurest won a five-year contract with composition and provenance of foods are our Education sector.
It encourages healthy Ontario Science Centre worth $3 million in continuing to drive consumer purchasing eating through helping students gain a better annual revenues.
Balanced Choices is our global healthy understanding of what foods to eat, the health eating programme designed to help consumers benefits and the link between good nutrition and make the right choices for their chosen academic attainment.
Using iconography on menu cards Split of revenue and packaging, allied to healthy cooking We have signed an exclusive 10-year agreement techniques such as grilling as opposed to with the Dieticians of Canada as sponsor of the 4,290m frying, consumers can select from a range National Nutrition Month which has as its focus 2005: 3,761m of options low in salt, fats and sugar.
700 of our accounts in North America are Split of operating profit now implementing the Balanced Choices As part of our commitment to sustainable Programme and we have trained over 2,800 sourcing, in March we announced a change 246m of our chefs and unit managers to the to our seafood purchasing policy with a 2005: 218m required operating standards.
commitment to buying one million pounds of Before exceptional items and including profit sustainable seafood annually this accounts for of associates.
Overview of the year around 20-25% of our total seafood purchases.
Organic growth was 12% fuelled by significant new business gains across all the sectors.
Outlook Contract retention for the year was 96% with In 2007, we expect to see continuing good major renewals including a five-year extension revenue growth but at lower levels than to Morrisons contract with BJC Health System those seen in 2006.
07 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Delivering on a grand scale.
Sector: Sports & Leisure From pretzel stands to fine dining restaurants, from the worlds leading cultural venues to iconic sporting locations, eating and drinking is an essential part of the visitor experience.
We are the leader in foodservice solutions from up-scale corporate hospitality to grab and go concession stands with the capabilities to cater for 100 or 100,000 visitors.
At the Charlotte Bobcats Arena we have developed a range of offers to meet the needs of over 12,000 basketball fans.
08 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Targeting growth industries with innovative products and services.
Sector: Business & Industry Employees want foodservice offers at their place of work that deliver the choice, quality and value for money available on the high street.
For our clients in growth industries such as financial services, legal and IT we are developing innovative new products and services that respond to the needs of discerning consumers for all-day dining and healthy eating.
09 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary operating review operating margin, particularly in the Business continued & Industry sector.
In France, Switzerland and the Netherlands the actions taken by the new leadership teams to simplify the management structure and the adoption of a shared services Continental Europe approach has stabilised the business and resulted Trading remains challenging, reflecting the in improved performances.
In Italy and Portugal on-going weakness of a number of Continental we have put in place new management teams European economies.
We are focused on who are restructuring the business to reduce improving the performance of poorer operating costs.
performing contracts and on restructuring country management teams to create a robust Product and service development platform for sustainable growth in the future.
In France, working in partnership with renowned Michelin starred chef, Yannick Alleno, Market position and trends we have launched a new brand, Millessence, The contract foodservice market in Europe has targeted at corporate boardrooms and the an approximate value of 43 billion and with Fine Dining sector.
outsourcing at below 30% represents an exciting opportunity.
We have established strong positions In Healthcare, Medirest has introduced two in all the major Continental European markets.
new concepts in the Nordic countries.
Meals Where there is sufficient market density we are for Life has been developed specifically for Continental Europe contract gains sectorising the business to better tailor our offer the residential and long-term care markets to to the specific needs of clients.
respond to the demand for healthy, nutritious In Norway, ESS won a five-year contract with Statoil and high quality food prepared to the very for four site camps, worth over 18 million a year in In the most developed markets, as in the UK highest food hygiene and traceability standards.
and North America, the trend, particularly in Your Private Chef is targeted at meals-onBusiness & Industry, is moving away from client wheels customers to offer a wider choice of In Germany, Eurest won a new contract with Motorola subsidy to profit & loss and fixed price contracts.
We have also with annual revenues of 3 million.
In response we are adopting a more retail introduced steam technology in Sweden and oriented approach to drive consumer volumes the Noorlands University Hospital contract, In Italy, Onama won new contracts with Bergamo and spend per head.
which is being mobilised during January, will be Hospital and 3rd Age Housing in Turin with combined annual revenues of 4 million.
the largest to utilise this revolutionary steam There is growing consumer interest in healthy technology in Continental Europe.
Our global programme, Balanced Choices, is being introduced across Europe In Germany and the Netherlands we have and is being well received by both clients and introduced programmes to reduce absenteeism Split of revenue consumers.
and labour turnover through increasing employee loyalty and satisfaction.
2,863m Overview of the year 2005: 2,830m Organic growth was 2% with flat operating In sports stadiums and arenas in Germany we profit in line with our expectations and reflecting have begun using biodegradable corn cups as Split of operating profit the continuing weakness of a number of major opposed to plastic.
We saw strong growth in the Nordic friendly cups use 35% less fossil fuel to produce 169m countries as a result of the continuing strength and are completely compostable.
2005: 169m of the offshore oil and gas sector and in Spain with double-digit growth in both the Education Outlook Before exceptional items and including profit of associates.
and Healthcare sectors as well as significant In 2007, we expect to see similar levels of overall growth in the senior living market.
revenue growth as we continue to be selective on new business.
With the significant reorganisation In Germany we saw some modest organic activity undertaken in 2006 we would expect to growth but a significant improvement in the begin to see some margin progression.
10 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary operating review In May we appointed Ian El-Mokadem, continued previously Managing Director of Onetel, to run the UK business.
He has a wealth of experience in business strategy and in consumer and retail markets, which will be United Kingdom invaluable as the business responds to the The stabilisation of the UK business is trends in the marketplace.
progressing well under a new leadership team.
The introduction of a simplified and more Product and service development focused business model will underpin the As contract structures move onto a more delivery of improved financial performance.
commercial basis and client subsidies reduce, we are continuing to invest in developments Market position and trends that extend our product portfolio to meet We are the leader in contract foodservice customer needs and drive efficiencies.
in the United Kingdom and have market leading positions in many of the sectors in Using innovative steam pressure technology to which we operate.
cook appetising and fresh food quickly while preserving the nutritional content, is generating Across all the sectors there is increasing demand new growth opportunities in the Education, from customers for options that promote healthy Healthcare and Business & Industry sectors.
In the Education sector we have been United Kingdom contract gains at the forefront of helping schools meet the Though not a substitute for traditional Governments new standards for school meals.
production kitchens it provides a high-quality Medirest secured a seven-year contract worth over Over 60% of the contracts we operate already and cost-effective alternative for schools with 9 million in annual revenue to provide full hotel meet the 2008 nutrient standards and exceed no hot meals service.
In West Sussex Scolarest services at two hospitals in Merseyside for the the guidelines on fresh fruit and vegetables and has won a contract with the County Council to St Helens and Knowsley Hospitals Trust.
We have also launched provide meals for 238 primary schools as they a Putting the Fun into Food Programme to transition from a packed lunch to hot meals Scolarest won a new contract with Westminster City raise the profile of healthy eating in primary service.
When fully mobilised we will provide Council worth over 2 million in annual revenue to and secondary schools.
over four million meals a year.
serve over 1.4 million meals annually at 39 primary and two secondary schools.
In Business & Industry the trend away from client In Healthcare one of the challenges for NHS Leiths won a 10-year contract to provide full subsidy to profit & loss and fixed price contracts Trusts is to provide high-quality nutritious catering services for Beaulieu Enterprises Ltd, is continuing.
Meal times are shortening, meals that increase patient satisfaction and worth 1 million a year in annual revenue.
with the average lunch break now less than aid recovery.
There is also a marked trend Medirest is able to offer clients and patients a Split of revenue towards all-day snacking and this is increasing more extensive choice of hot meals cooked to the demand for grab and go products.
We are currently supplying 1,957m over 10,000 such meals a day across 30 2005: 1,982m Overview of the year hospitals.
To meet demand we have developed Our priority has been to start stabilising the a Cuisine Centre in St Albans capable of Split of operating profit business and build a firm foundation for future producing 35,000 meals a day.
We have made good progress in creating 115m a more robust contract base by renegotiating In Business & Industry steam technology is a 2005: 114m or exiting poorer performing ones.
The impact cost-effective option at client locations where Before exceptional items and including profit of these actions has been offset by new contract the number of on-site staff would not of associates.
gains enabling us to achieve a similar level commercially justify a traditional meal service.
of financial performance to last year.
Outlook The Education sector has again been challenging We expect business to remain challenging in as we have responded to the Governments drive the UK in 2007, particularly in the Education to improve school meals.
There are now clear sector.
We will, however, continue to simplify signs that this sector is beginning to stabilise and the business to generate cost efficiencies and during the summer we won new contracts in focus on improving the margin, particularly Reading, Sheffield, Kent and West Sussex.
11 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Maximising the value of healthy eating.
Sector: Healthcare We are constantly looking for new ways to help hospital patients eat better.
At Londons Charing Cross Hospital we are using revolutionary steam technology to deliver a wider choice of appetising and nutritious meals that aid their recovery.
Patients are eating 36% more food and food going to waste has reduced by one third.
12 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Understanding individual needs, all over the world.
Sector: Defence, Offshore & Remote sites For people working on offshore oil and gas rigs and remote construction and mining sites a hot nutritious meal, a clean bed and a freshly laundered uniform are vital home comforts.
We recognise the importance of these basic, but essential, needs.
Thats why we go to the ends of the earth, literally, to deliver the highest levels of customer support and service.
Most importantly of all we need to do it safely and with consideration for the environment.
13 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary operating review World business.
In Japan we are continuing continued our planned exit from the high street retail restaurant market and this held back organic growth to 4%.
Rest of the World We have seen good profit growth in Australia Organic revenue growth was driven by strong and other countries with remote site operations performances in Australia and Latin America reflecting the buoyancy of the oil, gas and as a result of the buoyant offshore oil and gas extractive industries.
Overall operating profit and remote site mining sectors.
We completed for the Rest of the World has been held back the planned exit from our Middle East military in part by the impact of the nationalisation of catering operations and continued to exit the the extractive industry in Venezuela following high street retail restaurant market in Japan.
Market position and trends China offers significant future growth prospects The contract foodservice market in the Rest and we are very pleased with the development of the World has an approximate value of of our business in this important market.
47 billion with outsourcing a little over 50% During the year we won contracts with Nokia, but with significant opportunities remaining Bayer Polymers, Tianjin Denso Electronics in the Education, Healthcare and Defence, and Foxxcon International.
As planned we Offshore & Remote sites sectors.
have now completed our exit from military Rest of the World contract gains catering operations in the Middle East.
Over the last 10 years we have established a In Australia, we have been awarded a five-year contract presence in those countries that offer attractive Product and service development with the Sydney Central Garrison Support worth over current and future growth prospects.
During Health and safety is the number one priority A$30 million in annual revenues.
this time we have established leading positions for us and our clients in the Defence, Offshore in Australia, Japan, Asia and Latin America & Remote sites sector.
In Australia, we have Medirest in Australia has won contracts for three years and have clients in over 40 countries.
launched the Compass Care initiative to with Jewish Care and Masonic Homes with combined promote excellence in health and safety annual revenues of A$7.5 million.
In the more developed markets, such as management and to facilitate the rehabilitation Australia, we have begun to sectorise our and return to work of ill or injured employees.
In China, Eurest has won three-year contracts with Yew Chung International School of Shanghai Gubei offer to respond to the specific requirements and Hongqiao Campus and the Beijing International of clients in the Healthcare and Education In Japan, we are responding to our clients Singaporean School.
In markets such as China and India increasing focus on the management of their we are continuing to ensure that our business environmental impacts by increasing the number is well placed to respond and benefit from the of our units with ISO14001 Environmental Split of revenue projected growth of these emerging economies.
We now have 360 of our units achieving the required standards.
1,705m The trend towards healthy living is continuing 2005: 1,500m and we are adapting our global healthy eating Also in Japan our Dessert Forest menu programme, Balanced Choices, to meet the development trial designed to boost sales by Split of operating profit different cultural and culinary requirements encouraging customers to select an additional of our consumers.
item has resulted in a 3% increase in sales.
55m The programme will now be rolled out across 2005: 53m Overview of the year all our Business & Industry operations.
We saw organic growth across all sectors up Before exceptional items and including profit of associates.
The Defence, Offshore & Remote Outlook sites sector grew by 24%, as a result of strong In 2007 we would expect to see more moderate performances in Australia and Latin America, revenue growth but would now expect to begin and now represents 35% of the Rest of the to see some margin progression.
14 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Working with local producers, wherever they are in the world.
Sourcing food responsibly We recognise the importance of working with suppliers in emerging markets to build sustainable supply chains.
That is why we are working with local producers to improve their skills and production capabilities to help them develop new markets and support their local community.
We have invested 0.2% of our revenues from Angola in local community projects and are working with the Quenguela community project to source vegetables and eggs for our sites.
15 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Acting responsibly Our responsibilities items so that consumers seeking healthier Business integrity options to suit their particular lifestyle are in business The Compass Group Code of Ethics sets well served.
out our social, ethical and environmental commitment towards each of our stakeholders Culinary tastes vary across the globe, so we Acting responsibly is not new to Compass.
and the communities in which we operate.
do not aim for a consistent approach, but rather We believe that meeting stakeholder The Code is the bedrock of our corporate basic principles that place healthy eating as a expectations is an essential building block responsibility programme.
primary responsibility across the globe.
Priorities for business sustainability and growth in in North America will be very different from shareholder value.
Safety, health and the environment countries in, say the Asia-Pacific regions.
Our number one operational priority is safety, Governance of social responsibility health and environment.
We believe that each Sourcing food responsibly Our tradition of encouraging local ownership of us at Compass Group has a moral obligation The purchasing decisions we make have provides a firm foundation on which to build.
to safeguard each other, our customers and the implications for food production and We believe there is more we can do and have environment by operating a safe, injury free and environmental sustainability.
We expect our this year set up a Corporate Responsibility healthy workplace, serving food that is always suppliers to have the same high social, ethical Committee, chaired by Sir Roy Gardner.
safe to eat and which minimises our impact on and environmental standards as we aspire to.
Its remit is to provide strategic direction and the environment.
guidance on all aspects of business practice Our people and responsibility ensuring consistent We take our environmental responsibilities Our people are our greatest asset and the face implementation everywhere we operate.
seriously, believing that effective environmental Compass presents to the world.
We want them management is in the interests of both our to be motivated and engaged, we value their Solid foundations to achieve business and our clients in whose premises we diversity and are committed to providing them industry leadership operate.
Our Environmental Policy sets out with development and training opportunities In 2006 we have taken steps to improve our our commitment and our Safety, Health and to fulfil their potential.
We also encourage environmental, social and ethical performance.
Environment Forum SHEF promotes policy, employee volunteering to support the We have put in place Speak Up lines so that sets standards and monitors best practice across communities in which they live and work.
our employees can raise any concerns about the Group.
how we conduct our business on a confidential Community basis.
Most significantly, we have reviewed the We asked Trucost PLC to assess our environmental We have a strong track record in community values that are at the heart of Compass.
They performance and our key impacts.
Compass in the Community, guide us on how we conduct business regardless model used by the British Government to select established a decade ago, recognises the best of where we are in the world.
Our values are the KPIs relevant to each sector of British community-based initiatives from across the Openness, Trust and Integrity: Passion for industry they identified greenhouse gases, world.
Projects promote healthy lifestyles, Quality: Win Through Teamwork: Can-Do particularly CO emissions and waste as our tackle social exclusion, improve employability 2 and last, but not least Responsibility, a clear key impacts.
Next year we will set out the and promote sustainability and diversity.
commitment to embedding responsible business actions we will take to better manage our direct Compass in the Community rewards successful practice as part of our culture.
impacts and thereafter we will report annually teams with a donation to support their project.
To help focus our attention we have also set out How are we doing?
a clear framework of responsibilities that are Diet and nutrition External recognition such as inclusion in specific to Compass as well as those which As a global foodservice company we know that the Dow Jones Sustainability Index provides are common to all large businesses.
we have an enormous influence on what our a benchmark for our performance.
Our 20 million consumers a-day choose to eat and commitment to the United Nations Global A future priority for us is to establish a common drink.
As such, our contribution to their diet Compact, the Percent Club and other relevant set of performance indicators.
This will provide and nutrition is our most significant impact.
us with a means to monitor and manage performance at a Group level complementing We are working closely with our clients, In 2007, we will be producing a Corporate existing measures at an operating company level.
suppliers, governments and regulators across Responsibility report which will explain our the world to respond to the emerging public approach to managing our social, ethical, health issues associated with obesity and diet.
environmental and broader economic impacts We aim to provide a wide choice of menu in more detail.
Setting a course for industry leadership Five-year goal Industry leadership in corporate responsibility Developing a leadership position Priority corporate responsibility issues for foodservice companies Diet & nutrition Climate change Local community Salt, sugar, fat Energy & resource Employee volunteering Obesity Transport As an employer Sourcing Local sourcing Confirming our focus Corporate responsibility issues shared by FTSE 100 companies Safety, health Business integrity Stakeholder Supply chain Governance and and environment Employability engagement risk management Diversity Firm foundations 16 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary financial review These are the first full year results prepared and presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
Discontinued operations have been excluded throughout this review, except where otherwise stated.
Andrew Martin Group Finance Director 17 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 The Group achieved 7% organic revenue growth The results of all these businesses are treated Basic earnings per share in 2006 with strong performances in North as discontinued operations and are therefore Basic earnings per share are 13.3 pence America and the Rest of the World regions, but excluded from the results of continuing 2005: 9.0 pence up 47.8%.
Excluding more difficult trading in the UK and Continental operations in 2006.
The 2005 results have been exceptional items and discontinued operations, Europe.
Actions are underway to improve restated on a consistent basis.
The results of the basic earnings per share on an underlying basis, financial performance, with continued focus on Selecta vending business are reported within before hedge accounting ineffectiveness, are delivery of strong free cash flow and improved continuing operations.
returns on capital employed ROCE over the Attributable profit and basic earnings per medium term.
The Group has announced The Group has completed the withdrawal from share are reconciled in the following table.
medium-term 2006-2008 objectives to improve its Middle East military catering operations.
Attributable ROCE by 100 basis points and to generate free The revenue and operating profits before profit Basic earnings per share cash flow from continuing operations over the exceptional items in 2005 from these activities 2006 2005 2006 2005 period of 800 million-850 million.
were 175 million and 34 million respectively.
m m pence pence Change The results of these operations are also treated Reported 285 195 13.3 9.0 47.8% Group performance as discontinued operations and are therefore Discontinued The Groups reported financial summary for the excluded from the results of continuing operations and exceptional items 34 36 1.6 1.7 year ended 30 September 2006 is set out below.
The 2005 results have Hedge accounting been restated on a consistent basis.
ineffectiveness Increase after tax 7 4 0.3 0.2 1 2006 2005 decrease Revenue Underlying 244 235 11.4 10.9 4.6% Continuing operations Overall, the Group delivered revenue growth before exceptional items of 7% on a reported basis, 6% on a constant Revenue 10,815m 10,073m 7.4% currency basis and 7% organic growth Dividends 2 Operating profit 508m 496m 2.4% previously referred to as like-for-like growth.
The recommended final dividend is 6.7 pence per share resulting in a total dividend of 3 Operating margin 4.7% 4.9% 20 bps Operating profit 10.1 pence per share for the year Operating profit from continuing operations 2005: 9.8 pence, a year-on-year increase of Profit before tax 4 including associates is 508 million 3.1% over 2005. Dividend cover for 2006 underlying 363m 344m 5.5% reported 374m 341m 9.7% 2005: 496 million an increase of 2.4%.
Whilst we remain committed to continue to grow the Free cash flow 265m 227m 16.7% Finance cost dividend in real terms, our objective over the Net finance cost for the year is 134 million medium term remains to move the dividend Basic earnings per share 2005: 155 million including 11 million cover more towards the two times level.
4 underlying 11.4p 10.9p 4.6% reported 11.7p 10.7p 9.3% non-cash income on hedge accounting ineffectiveness arising on the revaluation of Acquisitions Total Group interest rate hedging instruments that do not The acquisition of the remaining 51% interest after exceptional items qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 in Levy Restaurants not already held was Basic earnings per share 13.3p 9.0p 47.8% 2005: charge 3 million.
Excluding this completed on 18 April 2006 for $250 million Dividend per ordinary share 10.1p 9.8p 3.1% hedge accounting ineffectiveness, the underlying 134 million.
1 Prior period figures have been restated from net finance cost for the year is 145 million UK GAAP to IFRS.
We currently anticipate The Groups strategic focus continues to be Includes share of profit of associates.
3 Excludes share of profit of associates.
underlying net finance costs to be around on the organic development of its existing core 4 Underlying profit before tax and basic earnings per share 105 million-110 million for 2007 principally businesses.
As a result, only a small number of excludes exceptional items and income of 11 million reflecting a full years benefit of the net disposal minor acquisitions were completed where these 2005: charge 3 million in respect of hedge accounting proceeds received during the course of 2006. reinforced sectoral presence in certain areas.
ineffectiveness and basic earnings per share excludes these items net of tax.
Profit before tax The Group does not currently anticipate any Discontinued operations Profit before tax from continuing operations significant new acquisitions during 2007 and On 15 June 2006, Compass completed the sale before exceptional items is 374 million payments of deferred consideration in respect of its travel concessions catering business, Select 2005: 341 million up 9.7%.
of past acquisitions and the buyout of minority Service Partner, including Creative Host Services interests is currently expected to total around in the US together, SSP, for net consideration On an underlying basis, before hedge 30 million in 2007. after transaction costs of 1,798 million.
SSPs accounting ineffectiveness, profit before tax revenue and operating profits in 2005 were from continuing operations increased by 5.5% Disposal of Selecta 1,804 million and 112 million respectively to 363 million 2005: 344 million.
In November 2006, the Group announced on an IFRS basis.
During the period, the Group its intention to dispose of its Selecta vending also completed the sale of its European Inflight Income tax expense businesses operating in 21 countries in catering business for net consideration after The overall Group tax charge before Continental Europe and in the UK.
transaction costs of 65 million, the RA Patina exceptional items for the year is 113 million public restaurants business in the US and the 2005: 96 million, giving an effective tax rate These businesses generated revenue of Strand Palace Hotel in London for a total of of 30% 2005: 28%.
We expect the Groups 476 million, earnings before interest and tax 85 million and a number of other small travel effective tax rate to average around the 30% EBIT of 45 million and earnings before concessions related businesses for a total of level for the foreseeable future.
interest, tax and depreciation EBITDA of 7 million.
The revenue and operating profits 87 million in 2006.
Net capital expenditure of these businesses in 2005 were 342 million in 2006 totalled 46 million.
18 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary financial review 2006 revenue split by sector % 2006 revenue split by geography % continued North Switzerland 2% Business & Industry 41% America 40% Netherlands 2% Defence, Offshore & Remote 9% UK 18% Japan 5% Education 13% France 8% CAMEA 3% Healthcare 16% Rest of Australia 3% Sports & Leisure 11% Europe 5% Latin Vending 9% Germany 4% America 3% Travel concessions 1% Italy 3% Asia Pacific 2% Spain 2% Pensions and goodwill amortised prior to 30 September Acquisition payments were 167 million The Group now accounts for pensions in 2004, the date at which the net book value of 2005: 121 million comprising the acquisition accordance with IAS 19. goodwill was frozen under IFRS.
Including these of the remaining 51% interest in Levy adjustments, average capital employed for the Restaurants which was completed on Significant one-off contributions were made year, for the continuing businesses, would have 18 April 2006 for $250 million 134 million, to the two main UK defined benefit schemes been 6,294 million 2005: 6,051 million and 8 million from the buyout of half of the during the year totalling 280 million following return on capital employed for the continuing remaining 10% of Onama in Italy, 8 million the disposal of the SSP business and the Strand business would have been 5.9% 2005: 5.9%.
of deferred consideration in respect of prior Palace Hotel.
years transactions and 18 million in respect Financial targets of other sundry acquisitions less 1 million of As a result, the total pensions deficit was The Groups three year targets for the cash acquired.
significantly reduced at 30 September 2006 continuing business for 2006-2008 remain to 282 million 2005: 555 million.
unchanged at: Disposal proceeds net of transaction costs 100 basis points improvement in ROCE: comprises consideration of 1,955 million less The Group has reviewed its pension free cash flow from continuing operations 118 million of cash disposed and 45 million assumptions and continued to move to more of 800 million-850 million.
consideration deferred to future periods, plus prudent assumptions in determining the deficit, 15 million of deferred consideration received including life expectancy assumptions which Cash flow in the year relating to prior years transactions.
have again been increased in 2006.
Free cash flow from the continuing business totalled 265 million 2005: 227 million.
Conclusion For example in the UK, life expectancy The major factors contributing to the increase The successful disposals of the travel concessions assumptions at age 65 for a pensioner has were: 24 million reduction in net capital businesses including SSP and the exit from the been increased to 19.7 years male, 22.6 years expenditure and 44 million lower working Middle East military catering business have female 2005: 17.8 years male, 20.7 years capital outflow, offset by 14 million higher resulted in a more focused Group and leaves female and for non-pensioners life expectancy net interest payments and 29 million higher us in a stronger financial position.
The focus in assumptions have been increased to 20.9 years net tax payments.
the coming year will be on improving underlying male, 23.7 years female 2005: 19.4 years business performance.
Net capital expenditure, which two years ago exceeded 300 million will, for the next The total pensions charge in the year was two-three years, be at a level of around 2% 33 million 2005: 26 million for defined of revenues after the disposal of the Selecta contribution schemes and 35 million vending business.
We are working hard at 2005: 53 million for defined benefit improving our working capital performance and Andrew Martin schemes.
Of the defined benefit scheme costs, now expect to see an average annual outflow Group Finance Director 11 million 2005: 14 million was charged of approximately 20 million.
Given the scale to net finance cost.
of the working capital balances, there are however likely to be fluctuations between years.
Return on capital employed Return on capital employed ROCE is 10.7% The Groups cash tax rate for the year was 2005: 10.7% based on the continuing business 27% 2005: 20%, based on underlying profit before exceptional items, excluding the Groups before tax.
We expect the average cash tax rate minority partners share of total operating to remain at a similar level for the foreseeable profit, net of tax at 30%, and using an average future, but again with some potential capital employed for the year of 3,232 million fluctuations between years.
2005: 3,137 million calculated from the IFRS balance sheet.
The net interest outflow of 174 million in 2006 includes an outflow of 20 million Under UK GAAP, included within average over and above the income statement charge capital employed was goodwill previously written relating to the swap reversal transactions off to reserves, now extinguished under IFRS, carried out in 2004.
19 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Board of directors Reshaping our leadership we have thought long and hard about the leadership skills we need.
It is not just about looking at CVs: it is also about understanding what each personality brings to our business and how the team interacts.
01 Sir Roy Gardner 06 Peter Blackburn CBE Chairman Age 61 Non-executive director Age 65 Appointed Chairman in July 2006 having been appointed Appointed to the Board in April 2002.
He is a nonto the Board as Senior Independent Director in October executive director of SIG plc.
He is a senior advisor to Credit Suisse, President of Northern Foods plc, a past President of the Food and of Carers UK and Chairman of the Apprenticeship Drink Federation and a former Chairman and Chief Ambassadors Network.
He is a former Chief Executive Executive of Nestl UK.
Peter is a member of the Audit of Centrica plc, Chairman of Manchester United plc, and Nomination Committees and was awarded a CBE Finance Director of British Gas plc, Managing Director in 2003 for services to the food and drink industry.
of GEC-Marconi Ltd and a Director of GEC plc and 07 Val Gooding CBE a former non-executive director of Laporte plc.
Non-executive director Age 56 Sir Roy is Chairman of the Nomination and Corporate Appointed to the Board in January 2000.
She is Chief Responsibility Committees, a member of the Executive of BUPA, a non-executive director of Standard Remuneration Committee and received his Knighthood Chartered PLC and a former non-executive director of in 2002 for services to the gas and electricity industries.
BAA plc and Cable and Wireless Communications plc.
02 Richard Cousins She is a member of the Council of the University of Group Chief Executive Age 47 Warwick and co-chair of the Advisory Board of the Appointed to the Board in May 2006 and appointed Warwick Business School.
She is a trustee of the British Group Chief Executive in June 2006.
He was until Museum, Vice President of International Federation of December 2005 Chief Executive Officer of BPB plc, Health Plans and a non-executive director of the Lawn having held a number of positions with that company Tennis Association.
Val is a member of the Nomination since joining it in 1990.
He is a former non-executive and Remuneration Committees and was awarded a CBE director of P&O and his earlier career was with Cadbury in 2002 for services to business.
Val will step down from Schweppes plc and BTR plc.
Richard is a member of the the Board on 31 December 2006.
08 Sven Kado 03 Andrew Martin Non-executive director Age 62 Group Finance Director Age 46 Appointed to the Board in April 2002.
He is Chairman of Appointed to the Board in March 2004.
He was Marsh & McLennan Holdings GmbH and was previously previously a partner with Arthur Andersen and held Chief Financial Officer of Nixdorf Computer AG, Chief senior financial positions with Forte Plc and Granada Financial Officer of Dyckerhoff AG and senior advisor Group PLC.
Following the disposal of the Hotels Division of Principal Finance Group Nomura International.
Sven in 2001, Andrew joined First Choice Holidays PLC as is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
He joined Compass Group in 2004.
He 09 Steve Lucas is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Non-executive director Age 52 in England and Wales and an Associate of the Chartered Appointed to the Board in July 2004.
He is Group Finance Institute of Taxation.
Andrew is a member of the Director of National Grid plc having been previously Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Executive Director, Finance of Lattice Group plc.
He is 04 Gary Green a chartered accountant and has held a number senior Group Managing Director USA, Canada finance positions with Shell International Petroleum and Latin America Age 49 Company and British Gas.
More recently he was Treasurer Appointed to the Board with effect from January 2007. at BG Group.
Steve is Chairman of the Audit Committee Joined the Group in 1986 in a senior finance role in the and is a member of the Remuneration and Corporate UK Division and became a UK divisional director in Responsibility Committees.
Relocated to the USA in 1994 as Chief Finance 10 Sir Ian Robinson Officer of the Groups North American Division and in Non-executive director Age 64 1999 became Chief Executive Officer.
Appointed Chief Appointed to the Board with effect from December 2006.
Executive Officer of the Americas in January 2005.
He is Chairman of Ladbrokes plc formerly Hilton Group 05 Peter Cawdron plc, a non-executive director of Scottish & Newcastle plc Senior Independent Director and and Siemens Holdings plc.
He is a former Chairman Deputy Chairman Age 63 of Amey plc, Chief Executive of Scottish Power plc and Appointed to the Board in November 1993.
He is Chairman non-executive director of ASDA plc and RMC plc.
of GCAP Media PLC and a non-executive director of a Sir Ian is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineers, number of companies, including ARM Holdings PLC, a Fellow of the Institution of Chemical Engineers, Johnston Press PLC, Prostrakan Group PLC, Punch Taverns a member of the Takeover Panel and received his PLC and The Capita Group PLC.
Peter is a former director Knighthood in 2000 for services to the electricity industry.
of Arla Foods UK PLC, Christian Salvesen PLC and Grand Metropolitan PLC.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Peter will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
09 07 05 03 01 10 08 06 04 02 20 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Corporate governance Chairmans Q&A All UK listed companies are required to make disclosures in relation to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Sir Roy Gardner discusses what steps he has taken to improve the Groups corporate governance since becoming Chairman.
Sir Roy Gardner Chairman Q In addition to strengthening the corporate Q The first principle of the Combined Code governance controls my priority this year has A key aspect of corporate governance is the concerns the need for an effective board.
been to ensure that we have a strategy that will means by which a board satisfies itself that a How does the Compass Group Board apply deliver enhanced shareholder value.
My role in companys financial controls and systems of this principle?
strategy development is to probe and challenge risk management are robust and defensible the executive team.
I do this by utilising the and that financial information is accurate A experience and knowledge that different and can be relied on.
How does Compass The Board is ultimately responsible for the good directors bring to the Board.
The directors accept that we are collectively responsible for Now that the strategy is in place the Board A its success.
and I will regularly review how it is being The Board has overall responsibility for the implemented by the Chief Executive and system of internal controls maintained by This is a large business operating across the his team.
The Audit Committee, acting on globe.
It is vital that we have clear lines of sight behalf of the Board, is responsible for regularly so that we can discharge our duties effectively.
Succession planning is also a key responsibility reviewing their effectiveness.
The Chairman We have in place a framework to enable us to of the Chairman.
It is vital that we have a of the Audit Committee reports to the Board exercise control whilst delegating day-to-day strong Board but also a pool of talented on the Committees activities on a regular basis.
decision making to those running the business.
managers that one day will be candidates for positions at the highest levels in the Group.
Each year the Board has a separate session I have taken a number of decisive steps to reviewing key risks and the actions being taken improve corporate governance.
We have Finally I also play a role in shareholder to mitigate and manage them.
put in place more robust centralised controls.
Investor Relations is the This gives the Board better visibility as to responsibility of the Group Chief Executive This year the Board has conducted a review of the performance of the Group.
But the and Finance Director.
However, as Chairman the effectiveness of internal controls.
We have entrepreneurial flair that is essential to I maintain contact with the Groups major made a number of changes to make them more improve profitability and shareholder value shareholders.
I need to know that they are robust and to improve the Boards visibility of has not been stifled.
happy with the performance of the business.
the performance of the business.
More detailed I also need to be in a position to keep the information on the Groups internal controls is In addition to the Nomination, Audit and Board informed of their views.
contained in the corporate governance report Remuneration Committees I have established a on page 24 of the Annual Report.
Its terms Q of reference are to look at all aspects of business There have been a number of changes to the I have established a Corporate Responsibility conduct, safety, health and environmental membership of the Board this year.
As part of its remit it is responsible management and responsible business practice.
these changes mean to the effectiveness of for ensuring compliance with our Code of the Board?
Ethics and investigates all issues in relation The effectiveness of the Board comes from us to business conduct.
We have introduced focusing on the things that really matter.
Having A confidential Speak Up lines covering 86% of absolute clarity as to the distinct roles of the The overriding priority for the Nomination the business to enable employees to raise any Board and the executive management is vital.
Committee was the appointment of a new concerns or alleged breaches of the Code.
Our requirement Q was for an individual with a combination of The Combined Code principles also deal business transformation skills, international with the role of the board chairman.
experience and a strong track record of creating How do you see your role?
We have found this combination in Richard Cousins.
A My key responsibility is to lead the Board and The composition of the Board is also evolving.
make sure that it is doing its job effectively.
It is vital that the independent non-executive directors and executive directors have the skills and experience that reflect the needs of the business.
The appointment of Sir Ian Robinson and Gary Green has begun the process of reinvigoration.
21 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary directors report Business activities, results and development Directors A review of the Groups business activities, results and future Biographical details of the directors are set out on page 19. development can be found on pages 1 to 18 and 28 to 35.
Sir Roy Gardner was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2005 and he succeeded Sir Francis Mackay as Chairman on 1 July 2006.
Richard Principal risks and uncertainties Cousins was appointed to the Board on 2 May 2006 and he succeeded The Board has a pro-active approach to risk management with the aim Michael Bailey as Chief Executive on 1 June 2006.
Sir Ian Robinson of protecting its employees and customers and safeguarding the interests and Gary Green will be appointed to the Board with effect from 1 of the Company and its shareholders.
Alain Dupuis, Michael Bailey and Sir Francis Mackay ceased to be directors on 1 October Compass Group has specific policies in place to ensure that risks are 2005, 31 May 2006 and 30 June 2006 respectively.
Val Gooding will properly evaluated and managed at the appropriate level with the cease to be a director with effect from 31 December 2006.
A risk assessment exercise is carried out across the Group each directors remuneration and interests in Compass Group shares are set year and the outcome is reviewed by the Board bi-annually.
Outlined below is a summary of what the Board considers to be the key Retirement and re-election of directors risks and uncertainties to successful delivery of its corporate objectives Andrew Martin and Peter Cawdron retire from the Board by rotation.
and the activities the Group undertakes to mitigate against these key Andrew Martin will stand for re-election at the 2007 Annual General risks and uncertainties: Meeting.
Peter Cawdron will not seek re-election and will retire at the conclusion of the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Richard Cousins, Description Mitigating activities Sir Ian Robinson and Gary Green are standing for election at the Food safety the Group has in place policies, processes and 2007 Annual General Meeting.
training procedures to ensure compliance with its legal obligations in relation to food hygiene Annual General Meeting and safety.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Client retention our business model is structured so that we are not Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE reliant on one particular sector, geography or client.
People retention and motivation training and development programmes, succession planning and performance management are Summary financial statement designed to align rewards with our corporate objectives and to retain and motivate our best This summary annual review and financial statement does not contain people.
sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results of Health, safety and environment our Safety, Health and Environment Forum SHEF the Group and state of affairs of the Company or the Group, and of promotes policy, sets standards and monitors their policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration, as best practice and reports to the Corporate would be provided by the full annual financial statements and reports.
Purchasing to reduce risk we are focusing on traceability, clear Members who wish to receive full financial statements and reports specification of our requirements to nominated in place of the summary financial statements for the year ended suppliers and the improvement of purchasing 30 September 2006 and all future years should write to the Company compliance by unit managers.
Secretary at the Companys registered office, the address of which is Litigation though we do not operate in a litigious industry we shown on the back cover.
have in place policies and processes in our major countries to mitigate against third-party litigation.
The independent auditors report on the full financial statements of the Reputation the Groups zero tolerance based Code of Ethics governs all aspects of our relationship with our Group for the year ended 30 September 2006 is unqualified and does stakeholders.
The Corporate Responsibility not contain any statement concerning inadequate accounting records Committee investigates any alleged breaches.
or failure to obtain necessary information or explanations.
Dividends A final dividend is proposed for the year ended 30 September 2006 of 6.7 pence per ordinary share payable on 5 March 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 February 2007.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 7 February 2007.
This together with the interim dividend of 3.4 pence per share paid on 7 August 2006 makes a total for the period of 10.1 pence per share.
Environment Information relevant to the Groups responsibilities towards the environment is given on page 15.
The Group used Trucost PLC to identify the environmental impacts that the Board believes are appropriate for an understanding of its performance.
In Trucost PLCs opinion, Compass Group PLC has now identified the material KPIs that it should report against in future annual report and accounts in accordance with Government guidelines.
22 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary corporate governance report The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and Nomination Committee for the year ended 30 September 2006 the Company complied with all The Committee comprises Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, Peter Blackburn, the provisions of the Combined Code.
Peter Cawdron and Val Gooding until 31 December 2006.
The Committee met once during the year.
Board structure The Board currently consists of the Chairman, five independent nonThe Committees primary responsibilities include: carrying out formal executive directors and two executive directors.
Subject to election and selection processes and making recommendations to the Board on the re-election at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, the Board will consist appointment and reappointment of directors, making recommendations of the Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and three to the Board on the suitability of candidates for the role of Senior executive directors.
Biographical details are set out on page 19.
Independent Director and membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Board meets regularly and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
All directors have access to the services of the The Committee met during the year to consider the appointment of Company Secretary.
Any directors wishing to take independent advice a new Chief Executive and the Board accepted the Committees may do so at the Companys expense.
Appropriate training is available recommendation that Richard Cousins be appointed as successor to to all directors on appointment and on an on-going basis as required.
Following the year end, the Board has accepted the Committees recommendations that Sir Ian Robinson and Gary Green The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and the Board be appointed as directors.
has agreed their respective responsibilities.
The Chairman is responsible for the effective functioning of the Board.
The Chief Executive is Corporate Responsibility Committee responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group and is The Committee comprises Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, Richard supported by an Executive Committee which normally meets monthly Cousins, Andrew Martin, Steve Lucas, the Company Secretary, and comprises the executive directors and key senior managers.
Director of Human Resources and Director of Corporate Policy & Communications.
All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement including Peter Cawdron who, The Committees primary responsibilities include: overseeing the having been a director for more than nine years, has decided to retire production of an annual Corporate Responsibility Report, Health, from the Board at the conclusion of the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Safety and Environmental practices, business conduct, the promotion of employee engagement and diversity and community investment.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary, Tim Mason, is responsible for advising the Disclosure Committee Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The directors The Committee comprises the Finance Director, the Company Secretary have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Committee meets as required to deal with matters concerning public announcements and the Companys Audit Committee obligations to the UK Listing Authority.
The Committee comprises Steve Lucas Chairman, Peter Blackburn and Sven Kado.
The Committee met six times during the year.
Relations with shareholders The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with the The Committees primary responsibilities include: reviewing the interim and preliminary final results.
The Chief Executive and the Companys published financial statements and formal announcements Finance Director give presentations of these results to institutional relating to financial performance, reviewing the effectiveness of investors, analysts and the media.
They may also be accessed on the the Companys internal financial controls and risk management Companys website, www.
systems, monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function, recommending the appointment and removal of the external auditors The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with and reviewing the Companys arrangements whereby employees may institutional investors to discuss strategy and financial performance.
in confidence raise any concerns regarding possible wrongdoing.
The Chairman maintains regular contact with the Groups major shareholders.
The Chairman and other non-executive directors are The Committee reviews annually the effectiveness and independence available to meet with investors to discuss corporate governance issues.
of the external auditors and has developed a policy on the provision of These meetings facilitate an on-going understanding of the views and services by the external auditors in order to safeguard their objectivity any concerns of the Companys major shareholders and they are and independence.
Remuneration Committee Other than in exceptional circumstances all directors attend the Annual The Committee comprises Peter Cawdron Chairman, Sir Roy Gardner, General Meeting and are available to answer shareholders questions.
Val Gooding until 31 December 2006, Sven Kado and Steve Lucas.
There is normally a trading update and shareholders are given the The Committee met five times during the year.
The Summary directors opportunity to meet the directors informally afterwards.
remuneration report is set out on pages 23 to 26.
The Company has a dedicated Investor Relations Department and this is a primary point for contact with investors throughout the year.
23 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary directors remuneration report This report summarises the Remuneration Committees policy on The Remuneration Committee determined that the results of the SSP executive remuneration given in the Annual Report for the year business would be excluded from the bonus calculations following its ended 30 September 2006.
A copy of the full report can be accessed sale on 15 June 2006. at www.
The amount of bonus paid to each director is shown in the table on The Committee determines the remuneration and benefits of the page 26, reflecting the maximum achievement of targets for FCF and Chairman, executive directors, Executive Committee members and revenue growth, and achievement between par and maximum for PBIT.
certain other senior executives of the Group.
Its key responsibilities are: to design specific remuneration packages which include salaries, The bonus opportunity for executive directors for the year ending bonuses, incentive payments, pension rights and benefits: 30 September 2007 will be based on the following targets: to review executive directors service agreements: profit before interest and tax PBIT 60% : to ensure that failure is not rewarded and that steps are always taken free cash flow FCF 20% : and to mitigate loss on termination, within contractual obligations: personal target PT 20%.
to review remuneration trends across the Group: and to approve the terms of and recommend grants under the Groups A supplementary condition has been imposed whereby the amount of incentive plans.
FCF and PT bonus payable will be halved unless the Groups minimum PBIT target is achieved.
Policy The aims of the remuneration policy are that: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP the components of the Companys remuneration package Following consultation with and approval by shareholders, the LTIP has continue to be aligned to the business strategy: been the primary form of equity-based incentive for the year ended there is a proper balance between the fixed and variable, and 30 September 2006 and this will continue to be our policy in the year long-term and short-term components of the remuneration package: ending 30 September 2007.
As executive directors will not normally be the various targets for determining performance-related compensation granted share options see below, the potential reward under the LTIP are linked to the Companys key business drivers was increased during 2006. and objectives, and are easily measurable and regularly reviewed: the incentives are easily understood and accepted by shareholders Under the LTIP, executive directors may receive a conditional award and senior executives: and of shares which may vest after a three-year performance period, based the Companys remuneration policy and its various components on performance conditions being met.
With effect from 2006, awards are are in line with best practice in the market.
normally granted at an annual maximum of 150% of base salary, with 200% being reserved for exceptional circumstances.
50% of any LTIP In determining the overall remuneration framework, the Committee award is based on the Groups FCF and 50% of any award on the maintains an active dialogue with shareholder representatives and Groups Total Shareholder Return performance TSR.
The FCF continually monitors developments in best practice.
element focuses executives on the free cash flow objective of business strategy and the TSR element on share price and dividend growth.
Components of executive directors remuneration The total reward package is structured into short-term and long-term FCF portion incentives, and into a division of fixed remuneration and performance- 50% of any award is based on the Groups FCF over a three-year related elements.
The precise FCF target for each award is linked to the Groups wider business targets, and is stretching and set by the Base salary Remuneration Committee at the time of award based on Group Base salaries are rigorously benchmarked, and reflect role, job size, projections and market expectations.
No shares are released unless individual performance and effectiveness.
They are subject to annual the Group achieves threshold performance.
25% of the portion of the review each December with any increases taking effect on 1 January.
award vests on the achievement of threshold performance.
Awards vest on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% where FCF is between Annual performance-related award threshold performance and the outperformance target.
Payment of an annual bonus is based on the achievement of performance targets set by the Committee.
The level of bonus is For awards made in the year ended 30 September 2006, the threshold designed to encourage performance in a manner that the Committee and outperformance targets were 825 million and 900 million considers most contributes to increasing shareholder value and meeting respectively.
For awards to be made in the year ending 30 September corporate objectives.
2007, the Committee has determined that threshold performance will be 950 million and outperformance will be 1,050 million.
The bonus award is made up of basic and enhanced elements: an annual opportunity of up to 75% of base salary based on the TSR portion attainment of results against set targets par performance : The remaining 50% of any award will depend upon growth in the a further opportunity of up to a maximum of 75% of base salary Groups TSR relative to the FTSE 100 companies determined at for overachievement of targets maximum performance.
the outset over a three-year performance period.
TSR is the aggregate of share price growth and dividends paid assuming reinvestment of Performance targets are determined at the start of each financial year.
those dividends in Compass Group shares during the three-year period.
For the year ended 30 September 2006, the bonus opportunity was 100% of the award will vest if TSR performance is in the top quartile based on the following key Group measures: and 25% of the award will vest if performance is at the median.
profit before interest and tax PBIT 50% : free cash flow as determined on page 30 FCF 30% : and Where performance is between the median and top quartile, awards revenue growth 20%.
will vest on a straight-line basis between the 25% and 100% applicable to median and top quartile performances.
No shares will be released if A supplementary condition was imposed whereby no bonus would the Groups performance is below the median.
be payable unless the Groups minimum PBIT target was achieved.
24 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary directors remuneration report continued For awards made since 2004, there is no retesting facility.
In addition, Retirement benefits for awards made in the year ended 30 September 2006 and subsequent The Groups policy is not to offer defined benefit arrangements to new years, any vesting of an award at the end of the performance period is employees at any level.
Incoming executive directors are invited either conditional on the Remuneration Committee being satisfied that the to join the Companys contracted-in money purchase arrangement underlying financial performance of the Group justifies such vesting.
or to take a fixed salary supplement.
The Committee considers FCF and TSR to be appropriate measures At 30 September 2006, there are no executive directors participating in for awards under the LTIP.
FCF focuses on a key business target for the any Compass Group defined benefit pension arrangements.
Richard Group, while the use of TSR aligns the interests of executives with those Cousins elected to receive a 35% salary supplement in lieu of pension.
TSR calculations are periodically undertaken by an external party, Alithos Ltd, and FCF measurements are subject to In the light of the A Day pension legislation, Andrew Martin also took independent audit.
up the 35% salary supplement election with effect from 6 April 2006.
He gave up all rights to his final salary pension, money purchase pension and Other share plans unfunded unapproved pension with effect from 15 March 2004 and ceased Matching Shares Plan MSP to accrue any pension in relation to his employment from this date save for Under the bonus matching shares plan, directors are permitted to invest that which he had built up during his earlier employment with Forte plc, up to 50% of any pre-tax performance related basic and enhanced Granada Group plc and Compass Group PLC between June 1994 and bonus in Compass Group shares.
If the shares are held for three years September 2001.
In connection with these revised arrangements, he and the director continues to be employed by the Group, the director received a payment of 338,895 in respect of his accrued pension scheme may receive a proportion of Matching Shares based on the Group and unfunded pension benefits in relation to the period from 15 March achieving underlying EPS average growth over the period.
For the year 2004 to 31 March 2006, and a payment of 168,450 in respect of his ended 30 September 2006, executive directors elected not to take up accrued money purchase pension for such period.
the opportunity to invest part of their bonus entitlement in the MSP.
For the year ending 30 September 2007, the Committee has decided Andrew Martins pension promises, built up in respect of his earlier not to make the MSP available to directors and executives.
period of service with Granada and Forte on both a funded and unfunded basis, are deferred pensions payable from age 60 which, Share Option Plan SOP revalued at 30 September 2006, amount to 25,694 per annum and In the year ended 30 September 2006, no executive directors were 27,523 per annum respectively.
granted options under the SOP in light of the Committees policy of using the LTIP as the primary long-term equity related incentive.
Sir Francis Mackay retired as a director on 30 June 2006, but as It is not intended to make future grants of options to executive directors, indicated in the 2005 Directors remuneration report ceased to accrue other than in exceptional circumstances which would be fully explained pension benefits from 1 October 2005. to shareholders at the time.
Michael Bailey retired as a director on 31 May 2006, and became Management Share Option Plan MSOP entitled to accrued pension benefits comprising an unfunded pension For executives below executive director level, the Company currently promise to provide for a level of benefits broadly similar to that applying operates the MSOP.
Options are granted at no lower than the market to UK executive directors in the Executive Section of the UK Pension price on the day prior to grant.
They may normally be exercised Plan.
The capital value of these pension benefits was 15,053,000 between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant after equalling the transfer value of his accrued pension benefits as at which they will lapse.
He was entitled to these pension benefits in lump sum form on retirement.
Of this total amount, 1,991,302 has been A performance target geared to the Companys key business measure paid to him in respect of the US element of this pension.
The balance of was introduced into the MSOP during the year with the approval of 13,061,698 accrues a market rate of interest pending payment to him.
shareholders so that options may only be exercisable subject to meeting a FCF target, determined by the Committee at the time of grant.
Chairman For options granted in the year ended 30 September 2006, the target The fee for the Chairman is set by the Committee.
The Chairman is not was the achievement of a FCF target of 825 million in the three-year eligible for pension scheme membership, bonus or incentive arrangements.
period from 1 October 2005 to 30 September 2008.
There is no He is entitled to the provision of life and medical insurance for himself retesting facility.
In the year ended 30 September 2006, approximately and his spouse, financial planning assistance and a fully expensed car.
Non-executive directors Savings-related share option scheme The fee for the non-executive directors during the year ended Executive directors may participate in the Companys all-employee share 30 September 2006 was 50,000 per annum, adjusted where directors plans on the same basis as other employees.
No grants were made held additional responsibilities.
Details of the fees paid to the nonduring the year ended 30 September 2006. executive directors for the year ended 30 September 2006 are set out on page 26.
The base fee has been thoroughly reviewed and benchmarked Shareholding policy by the executive members of the Board and increased to 60,000 per In order that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, annum with effect from 1 October 2006. executive directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal shareholding in the Company of at least 100% of base salary.
New Non-executive directors are not eligible for pension scheme membership, directors will undertake to build up their shareholding within four years bonus, share options or other incentive arrangements.
Non-executive directors have letters of engagement.
They are appointed for an initial period of three years, after which the appointment is renewable at three-year intervals by mutual consent.
Details of their appointments, which are terminable without compensation, are set out in the table.
25 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary directors remuneration report continued Total length Dilution limits of service at All the Companys equity based incentive plans incorporate the 2005 Original date of Letter of 30 September ABI Guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under Non-executive director appointment engagement 2006 all schemes should not exceed 10% over a 10-year period in relation to Sir Roy Gardner 1 October 2005 15 September 2005 1 year the Companys issued share capital or reissue of treasury shares, with Peter Cawdron 3 November 1993 27 October 1993 12 yrs, the further limitation of 5% in any 10-year period on executive plans.
31 March 2004 10 mths The Committee monitors every six months, and prior to the making of Peter Blackburn 10 April 2002 16 May 2002 4 yrs, rev.
31 March 2004 5 mths any award, the effect of potential vesting of options or share awards to ensure that the Company remains within these limits.
Any awards which Val Gooding 4 January 2000 1 January 2000 6 yrs, are required to be satisfied by market purchased shares are excluded rev.
31 March 2004 8 mths from such calculations.
31 March 2004 5 mths No treasury shares were utilised in the year ended 30 September 2006.
Steve Lucas 7 July 2004 17 June 2004 2 yrs, 2 mths As at 30 September 2006, the Companys headroom position was as below: Plan limits headroom Service contracts 5% in 10 years 10% in 10 years Richard Cousins is employed under a service contract dated 23 March 2006 and Andrew Martin under a contract dated 4 May 2005.
They 0.90% 3.09% have rolling service contracts with the Company.
Richard Cousins Headroom contract is terminable by him giving one years written notice or by 0.33% 3.77% Executive the Company giving 24 months written notice, reducing to 12 months notice on 1 May 2007, being 12 months following his appointment, and LTIP 3.77% 0.33% that of Andrew Martin is terminable by him giving six months written notice or by the Company giving one years written notice.
All 2.81% employee In the event of termination by the Company, legally appropriate mitigation factors would be taken into account in determining any IFRS compensation which may be payable.
Since the year ended 30 September 2005, Compass Group has prepared its financial statements under IFRS.
In order to achieve consistency Both contracts will terminate automatically at age 65 or such other age between UK GAAP and IFRS, EPS and other accounting measures as may be determined as the retirement age for executive directors.
used as performance targets for earlier years under equity based On early termination of their contracts, both executives would normally incentive plans have been adjusted.
be entitled to an amount equal to pay in lieu of any period of notice, being basic salary, salary supplement in lieu of pension, benefits or, at Compass Group PLC share prices the Companys discretion, an amount of 10% of salary: and a bonus The mid-market prices of the Companys ordinary shares on equivalent to 75% of salary.
Richard Cousins would be entitled to such 30 September 2005 and 30 September 2006 were 206.25 pence and payment by way of a lump sum.
During the period between these two dates, the market price of the Companys ordinary shares ranged between With the Boards agreement, executive directors may take up one 175 pence and 276.25 pence 21 October 2005 and 26 September 2006. non-executive directorship and may retain any fees.
Total shareholder return Payment to certain former directors The performance graph below shows the TSR for Compass Group over Andrew Lynch the last five financial years.
The graph shows the value of 100 invested Andrew Lynch resigned as a director on 28 September 2005 and left in the FTSE 100 Index.
The Committee considers this to be the most the Group in June 2006 with the sale of Select Service Partner.
Under appropriate comparator group for this purpose as the FTSE 100 index is the arrangements described in the 2005 Directors remuneration report, widely used and recognised, and Compass Group has been a constituent he received a sale-related payment of 200,000 on 31 March 2006 member throughout the period.
and 525,500 at the time of sale, such amount determined by the level of sale proceeds which surpassed expectations.
Compass Group 160 FTSE 100 Index Alain Dupuis 140 Alain Dupuis resigned as a director on 1 October 2005.
He received a termination payment of 430,000 and entered into a three year fixed 120 term service contract at a reduced salary of 200,000 per annum, with no change to his annual bonus opportunity and benefits during the 100 period, and a one-off pension contribution of 335,000 paid at the start of the period.
These arrangements also included a long-term bonus 80 scheme attributable to the performance of the countries for which he 60 had executive responsibility.
The long-term bonus was subject to a ceiling of 4 million.
In the period to 31 July 2006, he earned 40 167,000 and 250,000 by way of salary and annual bonus respectively.
Following a restructure, his service contract was terminated on 31 July 20 2006 26 months before its contractual termination date and under a compromise agreement he received 1,100,000 in settlement of all 0 claims, with two further payments of 250,000 on 31 January 2007 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 and 31 July 2007 respectively, subject to him not having entered into certain categories of employment at the payment dates.
Value of a hypothetical 100 holding 26 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary directors remuneration report continued Directors emoluments The aggregate remuneration of the individual directors of Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2006 was as follows: Annual Salary  1 Salary fee supplement Benefits related bonus payments 2006 2005 Name of director 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Directors in service at 30 September 2006 Executive Richard Cousins appointed 1 May 2006 313 109 11 398 831 Andrew Martin 461 83 79 606 1,229 472 Non-executive Sir Roy Gardner appointed 1 Oct 2005 163 25 188 Peter Blackburn 50 50 50 Peter Cawdron 90 90 90 Val Gooding 50 50 50 Sven Kado2 53 53 53 Steve Lucas 65 65 59 Directors who left during the year Michael Bailey retired 31 May 2006 3 651 110 830 1,591 1,098 Alain Dupuis resigned 1 Oct 2005 4 430 430 462 Sir Francis Mackay retired 30 Jun 2006 5 225 36 261 546 Directors who left during the previous year 1,703 Total 2,121 192 261 1,834 430 4,838 4,583 1 Supplement of 35% of salary paid in monthly instalments in lieu of pension participation.
2 The figure shown for Sven Kado for each of 2005 and 2006 includes a fee of 4,000 in respect of his non-executive directorship of Compass Group Deutschland GmbH.
Michael Bailey was paid no compensation on cessation of his employment.
He was permitted to receive his bonus for the year ended 30 September 2006 pro-rated to his period of employment during the year.
4 Alain Dupuis resigned from the Board on 1 October 2005 and left the Group on 31 July 2006 see page 25.
5 Sir Francis Mackay was paid no compensation on cessation of his employment.
The directors who left during the year ended 30 September 2005 were Andrew Lynch, Clive Grundy and Denis Cassidy see page 25 for details of payments made to Andrew Lynch during 2006.
Beneficial share interests of directors Long-Term 30 Sept 2006 30 Sept 2005 Ordinary shares Options Incentive Plan total total Name of director Number Number Number Number Number Directors in service at 30 September 2006 Richard Cousins 100,000 727,272 827,272 Andrew Martin 110,027 1,018,532 603,055 1,731,614 1,191,008 Sir Roy Gardner 100,000 100,000 Peter Blackburn 5,000 5,000 5,000 Peter Cawdron 24,200 24,200 24,200 Val Gooding 5,502 5,502 5,001 Sven Kado 12,500 12,500 12,500 Steve Lucas There were no incentive plan gains for the year ended 30 September 2006.
27 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Independent auditors statement to the members of Compass Group PLC We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow statement and the related summary notes 1 to 7 together with the summary directors report and summary directors remuneration report.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement with the full annual accounts the directors report and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We report whether the auditors opinion on the full annual accounts was unqualified or qualified.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 06 The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors remuneration report of Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2006 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
The auditors report on the Companys annual accounts was unqualified.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 29 November 2006 28 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 September 2006 Before Exceptional Before Exceptional exceptional items Total exceptional items Total items Note 2 2006 items Note 2 2005 Notes m m m m m m Continuing operations: Revenue 1 10,815 10,815 10,073 10,073 Operating costs 10,309 10,309 9,577 108 9,685 Operating profit 1 506 506 496 108 388 Share of profit of associates 22 Total operating profit 508 508 496 108 388 Finance income 15 15 44 Finance costs 160 160 156 156 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 11 11 3 3 Profit before tax 374 374 341 108 233 Income tax expense 113 44 69 96 1 97 Profit for the year from continuing operations 1 261 44 305 245 109 136 Discontinued operations: Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 3 17 27 10 114 41 73 Profit for the year 278 17 295 359 150 209 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the Company 268 17 285 345 150 195 Minority interest 10 10 14 14 278 17 295 359 150 209 Basic earnings per share 4 From continuing operations 13.7p 5.7p From discontinued operations 0.4 p 3.3p From continuing and discontinued operations 13.3p 9.0p Diluted earnings per share 4 From continuing operations 13.7p 5.7p From discontinued operations 0.4 p 3.3p From continuing and discontinued operations 13.3p 9.0p Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 30 September 2006 2006 2005 Notes m m Fair value movement on cash flow hedges 4 7 Currency translation differences 7 14 Actuarial losses on post-employment benefits 37 157 Tax on items taken directly to equity 3 33 Net loss recognised directly in equity 37 103 Transfer to profit or loss from equity of cumulative translation differences on discontinued activities 2 Transfer to profit or loss from equity on cash flow hedges 6 Net expense recognised in equity 41 103 Profit for the financial year 295 209 Total recognised income and expense for the year 6 254 106 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the Company 248 92 Minority interest 6 14 254 106 29 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 September 2006 2006 2005 Notes m m Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 3,451 4,220 Other intangible assets 152 168 Property, plant and equipment 756 1,657 Interests in associates 39 45 Other investments 9 6 Deferred tax assets 237 198 Trade and other receivables 117 140 Derivative financial instruments 22 44 4,783 6,478 Current assets Inventories 212 253 Trade and other receivables 1,424 1,574 Overseas tax recoverable 10 9 Derivative financial instruments 9 2 Cash and cash equivalents 848 281 2,503 2,119 Total assets 7,286 8,597 Liabilities Current liabilities Short-term borrowings 119 150 Derivative financial instruments 2 20 Current tax liabilities 357 334 Trade and other payables 1,990 2,437 Provisions 65 10 2,533 2,951 Non-current liabilities Long-term borrowings 1,835 2,580 Derivative financial instruments 18 2 Post-employment benefit obligations 282 555 Provisions 242 143 Deferred tax liabilities 18 17 Other liabilities 46 71 2,441 3,368 Total liabilities 4,974 6,319 Net assets 2,312 2,278 Equity Share capital 6 210 216 Share premium account 6 96 94 Capital redemption reserve 6 15 9 Less: own shares 1 Other reserves 6 4,288 4,137 Retained earnings 6 2,303 2,204 Total equity shareholders funds 2,306 2,251 Minority interests 6 6 27 Total equity 2,312 2,278 Approved by the Board of directors on 29 November 2006 and signed on their behalf by Richard J Cousins, Director Andrew D Martin, Director 30 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 30 September 2006 2006 2005 m m Cash generated from operations 754 699 Interest paid 186 161 Interest element of finance lease rentals 3 3 Tax received 4 23 Tax paid 101 91 Net cash from operating activities for continuing operations 468 467 Net cash from operating activities for discontinued operations 29 181 Net cash from operating activities 497 648 Cash flow from investing activities Purchase of subsidiary companies and investments in associated undertakings 167 121 Proceeds from sale of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings 1,807 75 Contribution of disposal proceeds to pension plans 280 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 206 248 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 27 35 Purchase of intangible assets 30 20 Dividends received from associated undertakings 2 4 Interest received 15 4 Net cash from used in investing activities by continuing operations 1,168 271 Net cash used in investing activities by discontinued operations 59 65 Net cash from used in investing activities 1,109 336 Cash flow from financing activities Issue of ordinary share capital 2 1 Purchase of own shares net 148 Net decrease in borrowings 647 32 Repayment of obligations under finance leases 15 16 Equity dividends paid 213 205 Dividends paid to minority interests 11 15 Net cash used in financing activities by continuing operations 1,032 267 Net cash used in financing activities by discontinued operations 1 Net cash used in financing activities 1,032 268 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 574 44 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 281 233 Exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents 7 4 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 848 281 Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations for the year ended 30 September 2006 2006 2005 m m Net cash from operating activities for continuing operations 468 467 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 206 248 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 27 35 Purchase of intangible assets 30 20 Dividends received from associated undertakings 2 4 Interest received 15 4 Dividends paid to minority interests 11 15 Free cash flow continuing operations 265 227 31 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2006 North Continental United Rest of Central America Europe Kingdom the World activities Total 1 Segmental reporting m m m m m m Year ended 30 September 2006 Revenue Total revenue 4,437 3,283 2,805 1,777 12,302 Less: inter-segment revenue 21 17 38 Revenue from external clients 4,437 3,262 2,805 1,760 12,264 Less: discontinued 147 399 848 55 1,449 Revenue from external clients continuing operations 4,290 2,863 1,957 1,705 10,815 Result Total operating profit 247 181 129 49 77 529 Less: discontinued 2 12 15 6 23 245 169 114 55 77 506 Share of profit of associates 112 Segment result continuing operations 246 169 115 55 77 508 Finance income 15 Finance costs 160 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 11 Profit before tax 374 Income tax expense 69 Profit for the year from continuing operations 305 Year ended 30 September 2005 Revenue Total revenue 3,937 3,554 3,254 1,680 12,425 Less: inter-segment revenue 26 5 31 Revenue from external clients 3,937 3,528 3,254 1,675 12,394 Less: discontinued 176 698 1,272 175 2,321 Revenue from external clients continuing operations 3,761 2,830 1,982 1,500 10,073 Result Total operating profit 221 211 193 87 58 654 Less: discontinued 3 42 79 34 158 218 169 114 53 58 496 Share of profit of associates Segment result continuing operations before exceptional items 218 169 114 53 58 496 Exceptional items note 2 2 107 1 2 108 Segment result continuing operations after exceptional items 220 62 113 53 60 388 Finance income 4 Finance costs 156 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 3 Profit before tax 233 Income tax expense 97 Profit for the year from continuing operations 136 32 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2006 continued 2006 2005 2 Exceptional items m m Continuing operations: Charged within operating profit: Impairment of goodwill Italy 107 Loss on disposal of businesses 1 108 Credited charged within income tax expense 44 1 Continuing operations 44 109 Charged within discontinued activities: Profit after tax on disposal of businesses 20 Settlement of UN contract claims and related expenses 39 Middle East military catering business 8 45 Tax credit on discontinued activities 4 Discontinued activities 27 41 Total 17 150 The exceptional tax credits arise in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses and tax deductions in respect of pension prepayments in the UK tax group that originated in previous years.
In 2006, 39 million has been charged to complete investigations and to settle lawsuits for lost profits brought by two competitors of the Group, ES-KO International Inc and Supreme Foodservice AG in relation to contracts awarded to Eurest Support Services by the UN.
The Group has discontinued its military catering operations in the Middle East, which were formerly part of the Rest of the World geographical segment.
In 2006 8 million has been provided to settle claims arising in 2005.
Related asset write-downs and provisions resulted in an exceptional charge of 45 million in 2005.
33 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2006 continued 3 Discontinued operations Following the decision to focus on its core contract catering business the Group disposed of its Inflight catering operations, which operated principally in Continental Europe on 19 December 2005 and its travel concession catering business, Select Service Partner, including Creative Host Services in the US together, SSP on 15 June 2006.
Gross proceeds were 1,865 million and costs incurred were 67 million.
In addition, the Group has discontinued its Middle East military catering operations and withdrawn from or disposed of various other businesses, shown as other below.
Details of net assets disposed of and disposal proceeds are as follows: SSP Other 2006 m m m Goodwill 798 51 849 Intangible assets 10 10 Property, plant and equipment 755 125 880 Investments 538 Inventories 29 9 38 Trade and other receivables 74 49 123 Cash at bank 94 24 118 Gross assets disposed of 1,765 261 2,026 Trade and other payables 208 51 259 Post-employment benefit obligations 10 4 14 Tax 6 6 12 Minority interest 1 5 6 Other liabilities 5 5 Gross liabilities disposed of 225 71 296 Net assets disposed of 1,540 190 1,730 Liabilities retained 88 21 109 Cumulative translation exchange loss recycled on disposals 22 Profit loss on disposal 168 54 114 Consideration, net of costs 1,798 157 1,955 Consideration deferred to future periods 37 8 45 Cash disposed of 94 24 118 Cash inflow from current year disposals 1,667 125 1,792 Deferred consideration relating to previous disposals 1515 Cash inflow from disposals 1,667 140 1,807 SSP Other 2006 2005 m m m m Financial performance of discontinued operations External revenue 1,238 211 1,449 2,321 Operating costs 1,209 217 1,426 2,163 Exceptional operating costs note 2 47 47 45 Profit before tax 29 53 24 113 Income tax expense 7 1 6 40 Profit after income tax from discontinued operations 22 52 30 73 Reported as exceptional note 2 : Profit on disposal of net assets of discontinued operations 170 54 116 Cumulative translation exchange loss 2 2 Profit on disposal before tax 168 54 114 Tax 99 5 94 Total profit after income tax on disposal of net assets of discontinued operations 69 49 20 Profit loss for the year of discontinued operations 91 101 10 73 34 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2006 continued Attributable Attributable profit profit 2006 2005 4 Earnings per share m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 285 195 Add back: loss profit for the year from discontinued operations 10 73 Attributable profit for the year from continuing operations 295 122 Exceptional items net of tax note 2 44 109 Attributable profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items 251 231 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness net of tax 7 4 Attributable underlying profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items 244 235 Ordinary Ordinary shares of shares of 10p each 10p each 2006 2005 millions millions Average number of shares for basic earnings per share 2,147 2,156 Dilutive share options 3 2 Average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 2,150 2,158 Earnings Ordinary per share per share 2006 2005 pence pence Basic earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 13.3 9.0 From discontinued operations 0.4 3.3 From continuing operations 13.7 5.7 Exceptional items net of tax 2.0 5.0 From continuing operations before exceptional items 11.7 10.7 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 0.3 0.2 From underlying continuing operations before exceptional items 11.4 10.9 Diluted earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 13.3 9.0 From discontinued operations 0.4 3.3 From continuing operations 13.7 5.7 Exceptional items net of tax 2.0 5.0 From continuing operations before exceptional items 11.7 10.7 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 0.3 0.2 From underlying continuing operations before exceptional items 11.4 10.9 The calculation of earnings per share is based on earnings after tax and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
The adjusted underlying earnings per share figures have been calculated to show the underlying trading performance of the Group and are based on earnings excluding the effect of goodwill impairment charges, other exceptional items, hedge accounting ineffectiveness and discontinued activities.
35 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Summary notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2006 continued 2006 2005 pence 2006 pence 2005 5 Dividends per share m per share m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders during the year: Final dividend for the prior year 6.5 140 6.2 134 Interim dividend for the current year 3.4 73 3.3 71 9.9 213 9.5 205 A final dividend in respect of 2006 of 6.7 pence per share is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 16 February 2007 giving a total dividend in respect of 2006 of 10.1 pence per share.
These financial statements do not include the accrual for this dividend.
Attributable to equity shareholders of the Company Share Capital Share premium redemption Own Other Retained Minority capital account reserve shares reserves earnings interests Total 6 Reconciliation of movements in equity m m m m m m m m At 1 October 2005 216 94 9 1 4,137 2,204 27 2,278 Total recognised income and expense 12 260 6 254 Issue of shares 22 Fair value of share-based payments 25 25 Share buy-back 6 6 149 149 Transfer on exercise of put options 138 3 10 131 Other changes 1 6 5 210 96 15 4,288 2,090 17 2,536 Dividends paid to Compass shareholders 213 213 Dividends paid to minority interest 11 11 At 30 September 2006 210 96 15 4,288 2,303 6 2,312 7 Contingent liabilities On 21 October 2005 the Company announced that it had instructed Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer to conduct an investigation into the relationships between Eurest Support Services ESS a member of the Group, IHC Services Inc. IHC and the United Nations.
Ernst & Young assisted Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in this investigation.
On 1 February 2006 it was announced that the investigation had concluded.
The investigation established serious irregularities in connection with contracts awarded to ESS by the UN.
The work undertaken by Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and Ernst & Young gave no reason to believe that these issues extended beyond a few individuals within ESS to other parts of ESS or the wider Compass Group of companies.
IHCs relationship with the UN and ESS is part of a wider and on-going investigation into UN procurement activity being conducted by the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York, and with which the Group is co-operating fully.
These investigators have access to sources unavailable to the Group, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and Ernst & Young, and further information may emerge which is inconsistent with or additional to the findings of the Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer investigation, which could have an adverse impact on the Group.
The Group has however not been contacted by or received further requests for information from the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York or the UN in connection with these matters since January 2006.
No provision has been made in the financial statements in respect of these matters and it is not currently possible to quantify any potential liability which may arise.
The directors currently have no reason to believe that any potential liability that may arise would be material to the financial position of the Group.
36 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2006 Shareholder information Registrars and transfer office Warning about unsolicited investment contacts All matters relating to the administration of shareholdings should be Over the last year many companies have become aware that their directed to Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, telephone within the UK: 0870 162 3100 concerning investment matters.
Share dealing service The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised Compass Group has arranged share dealing services with Capita overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors Registrars which provides a telephone and online share dealing and any approach from such organisations should be reported service for UK resident shareholders in Compass Group.
To deal, to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any shareholders must provide details of surname, postcode, date of birth other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with an and investor code set out in share certificates.
To use the service unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under telephone 0870 458 4577 or visit www.
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Full details together with More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the a form of application are available from HSBC Trust Company UK FSA website www.
Limited, Corporate Personal Equity Plans & Individual Savings Accounts, 1st Floor, Courtwood House, Silver Street Head, Sheffield S1 2BH, Unsolicited mail telephone 0845 745 6123.
ShareGift ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders Number of Shares administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is particularly Number of Holders shares held held useful for those shareholders that may wish to dispose of a small Shareholder analysis holders % millions % quantity of shares where the market value makes it uneconomic to sell Type of holder: on a commission basis.
Further information can be obtained from Individuals 66,158 91.5 88 4.2 ShareGift telephone 020 7337 0501 or from its website www.
Institutional & other investors 6,109 8.5 2,011 95.8 Total 72,267 100.0 2,099 100.0 American Depositary Receipts ADRs Size of holding: Compass Group has an ADR programme.
Each ADR is equivalent 1 100 13,841 19.2 1 0.0 to one Compass Group ordinary share and trades under the symbol CMPGY.
Further information can be obtained from The Bank of 101 200 11,758 16.3 2 0.1 New York, Investor Relations, PO Box 11258, Church Street Station, 201 500 17,853 24.7 6 0.3 New York, NY 10286-1258, telephone: within the US toll free 501 1,000 11,879 16.4 9 0.4 1-888 BNY-ADRs and from overseas 1 212 815 3700, email: shareowners@bankofny.
