Notice of Annual General Meeting This Notice and the explanatory statements which Special business ordinary resolutions follow it are important.
If you are in any doubt about Authority to make political donations their contents or the action you should take, you should Resolution 7: to resolve that the Company be and is hereby consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, generally and unconditionally authorised to make donations accountant or other professional adviser authorised to EU political organisations and to incur EU political pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. expenditure each as dened in Part XA of the Companies If you have sold or transferred all your shares in Smiths Act 1985 as amended CA 1985 in an aggregate amount News PLC you should pass this notice and other not exceeding 50,000.
The authority conferred by this enclosures to the person through whom the sale or resolution will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser of the Company or on 6 May 2008, whichever is the earlier.
Resolution 8: to resolve that Smiths News Trading Limited Notice is hereby given that the first Annual General Meeting be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to AGM of Smiths News PLC the Company will be held make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU at The Hilton Hotel, Lydiard Fields, Great Western Way, political expenditure each as dened in Part XA of CA 1985 Swindon, Wiltshire SN5 8UZ on Wednesday 7 February 2007 in an aggregate amount not exceeding 50,000.
The at 11.30am for the following purposes: authority conferred by this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or on 6 May Ordinary business ordinary resolutions 2008, whichever is the earlier.
Report and accounts Resolution 1: to receive the accounts and reports of the Authority to allot shares directors and auditors for the year ended 31 August 2006.
Resolution 9: to resolve that, pursuant to Article 6 of the Companys Articles of Association, the directors be and are Remuneration report hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant Resolution 2: to approve the directors remuneration report to Section 80 of CA 1985, to exercise all the powers of the for the year ended 31 August 2006.
Company to allot relevant securities as dened in Section 80 2 of the said Act up to an aggregate nominal value of Dividend 3,048,665.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Resolution 3: to declare a final dividend of 4p per share next AGM of the Company or on 6 May 2008, whichever is recommended by the directors on the ordinary shares.
the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require Directors relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Resolution 4: to re-appoint Mark Cashmore as a director directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such of the Company.
offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Mark Cashmore joined the Board on 31 August 2006 and on the same date was appointed Chief Executive.
He joined Special business special resolutions WH Smith News in 1999 and was appointed Magazine Sales Disapplication of pre-emption rights Director in 2001 and Sales Director, with responsibility for Resolution 10: to resolve that, pursuant to Article 7 of newspapers and magazines, in 2006. the Companys Articles of Association, but subject to the passing of Resolution 9 above, the directors be and are Resolution 5: to re-appoint Dennis Millard as a director hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 2 of CA 1985 of the Company.
to allot equity securities as dened in section 94 2 of CA 1985 for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Dennis Millard joined the Board on 31 August 2006 and is Resolution 9 above as if section 89 1 of CA 1985 did not Deputy Non-Executive Chairman and Senior Independent apply to such allotment, provided that the power conferred Director.
He is currently a non-executive director and by this resolution: Chairman of the Audit Committees of Debenhams plc a is limited to: and Xchanging B. V. and was formerly Finance Director of i the allotment of equity securities in connection with Cookson Group plc from 1996 to 2005 and Medeva plc from a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders 1994 to 1996.
The Chairman confirms that Dennis Millard where the equity securities are offered to the ordinary continues to make an effective contribution and time shareholders in the proportions as nearly as may be commitment to Board and Committee meetings.
in which they hold ordinary shares but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Auditors directors may deem necessary or expedient in Resolution 6: to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical and authorise the Board to determine their remuneration.
problems arising under the laws or requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange or otherwise in any territory: and ii the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i up to an aggregate nominal value of 457,300: and 97 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting b will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Special business explanatory notes Company or on 6 May 2008, whichever is the earlier, Authority to make political donations: save that the Company may before such expiry make Resolutions 7 and 8 an offer or agreement which would or might require Part XA of CA 1985, amongst other things, prohibits the equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Company and its subsidiaries making donations to EU directors may allot such equity securities in pursuance of political organisations of more than 5,000 in any 12 month such offer or agreement as if the power hereby conferred period unless they have been authorised to make donations had not expired.
The Company has no intention of making donations to political parties.
Market purchases of ordinary shares Resolution 11: to resolve that, pursuant to Article 11 of the However, CA 1985 defines EU political organisations widely.
Companys Articles of Association and section 166 of CA It includes organisations which carry on activities which are 1985, the Company be and is hereby generally and capable of being reasonably regarded as intended to affect unconditionally authorised to make market purchases as public support for a political party in any EU Member State dened in section 163 3 of CA 1985 of any of its own or to inuence voters in relation to any referendum in any EU ordinary shares in such manner and on such terms as the Member State.
As a result, it is possible that the denition directors may from time to time determine provided that: may include bodies, such as those concerned with policy a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares review and law reform or with the representation of the authorised to be purchased is 18,291,993: business community or sections of it, which the Company b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary may see benefit in supporting.
share is 5p exclusive of all expenses : c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary Accordingly, the Company wishes to ensure that neither it share is an amount exclusive of all expenses equal to nor its principal trading subsidiary company inadvertently the higher of: commits any breaches of CA 1985 through the undertaking i 105 per cent of the average of the middle market of routine activities, which would not normally be considered quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the to result in the making of political donations.
The resolutions London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five authorise donations and political expenditure up to an business days immediately preceding the day on aggregate amount not exceeding 50,000 for each company which the ordinary share is contracted to be in the period up to the Companys next AGM or 6 May 2008, purchased: whichever is the earlier.
As required by CA 1985, the ii the price of the last independent trade in the resolutions are in general terms and do not purport to Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock authorise particular donations.
Exchange: and iii the highest current independent bid for the Authority to allot shares: Resolution 9 Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Under section 80 of CA 1985 the directors of a company Exchange at the time of the purchase: and may only allot unissued shares if authorised to do so by the d the authority shall, unless previously varied, revoked or shareholders in general meeting.
This Resolution, if passed, renewed, expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the will authorise the directors to allot unissued shares up to an Company or on 6 May 2008, whichever is the earlier, aggregate nominal value of 3,048,665, representing save that the Company shall be entitled under such approximately one-third of the Companys issued ordinary authority to make at any time before such expiry any share capital as at 12 October 2006.
The authority will expire contract to purchase its own shares which will or might at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or on be executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
6 May 2008, whichever is the earlier.
Although the directors have no present intention of exercising this authority, except By Order of the Board for the purposes of allotting shares under the Companys Mark Charlton employee share schemes, it is considered prudent to Company Secretary maintain the exibility it provides.
12 October 2006 Disapplication of pre-emption rights: Resolution 10 Registered Office: If shares are allotted for cash using the authority given by Wakeeld House, Pipers Way, Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 1RF Resolution 9, section 89 of CA 1985 requires that those shares are offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to the number of shares they already hold.
This Resolution would authorise the directors, pursuant to section 95 of CA 1985, to allot equity securities for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders.
The authority other than in relation to a rights issue would be limited to the issue of equity securities up to a maximum nominal value of 457,300, which is equal to approximately 5 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 12 October 2006, and will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or on 6 May 2008, whichever is the earlier.
98 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting Market purchases of ordinary shares: Resolution 11 Recommendation With the authority of shareholders in general meeting, the The directors consider that each of the proposals Company is empowered by its Articles to purchase its own detailed in this Notice of Meeting will be of benefit ordinary shares in the market subject to the provisions to and in the best interests of the Company and the of CA 1985. shareholders as a whole.
The directors intend to vote in favour of all Resolutions in respect of their In considering the purchase by the Company of its own own beneficial holdings of ordinary shares in the ordinary shares, the directors will follow the procedures laid Company and unanimously recommend other down in CA 1985 and will take into account cash resources, shareholders to do likewise.
capital requirements and the effect of any purchase on appropriate gearing levels.
They will only exercise the Notes authority when satisfied that it is in the best interests of the 1.
Ordinary shareholders who are unable to attend the Company to do so and when it would result in an increase AGM are entitled to appoint one or more proxies who in earnings per share.
need not be shareholders to attend and, on a poll, vote on their behalf.
The proposed authority would be limited to purchases 2.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed for the use of ordinary of up to 18,291,993 ordinary shares, which is equal to shareholders unable to attend the meeting.
Before approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary completing the form shareholders should read the share capital as at 12 October 2006, made through the guidance notes below.
London Stock Exchange at prices not exceeding the higher 3.
Any member with more than one ordinary shareholding of 105 per cent of the average of the middle market registered in his her name should receive only one copy quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange of either the summary annual report or the annual report Daily Official List for the five business days before each and one Form of Proxy.
The Form of Proxy will be valid in purchase, the price of the last independent trade in the respect of all his her holdings.
shares on the London Stock Exchange at the time of the 4.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated purchase and the highest current independent bid for the Securities Regulations 2001 and the Articles of Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange Association of the Company, the Company species that at the time of the purchase.
only those ordinary shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6pm on 5 February The directors wish to emphasise that the maximum number 2007 shall be entitled to attend either in person or by of ordinary shares and the price range are stated merely for proxy and vote at the meeting in respect of the number the purposes of compliance with statutory and the UK Listing of shares registered in their names at that time.
Changes Authority requirements in seeking this authority and should to the register of members after 6pm on 5 February 2007 not be taken as any representation of the terms upon which shall be disregarded in determining the right of any the Company may make purchases.
person to attend and vote at the AGM.
Copies of directors service contracts and non-executive As at 12 October 2006, being the last practicable date directors letters of appointment with the Company or prior to publication of this Notice, there were outstanding any of its subsidiaries, and the register of directors 12,700,095 options to subscribe for ordinary shares, interests in the share capital of the Company are representing 6.9 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary available for inspection at the registered office of the share capital.
If the authority was exercised in full, the options Company during normal business hours on any would represent 7.7 per cent of the Companys issued weekday, except Saturdays and public holidays ordinary share capital.
and at the place of the AGM on 7 February 2007 for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Prior to 1 December 2003, any shares purchased in this 6.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they way would have been cancelled and the number of shares appoint agree, by attending the meeting, that they are in issue reduced accordingly.
However, the Companies expressly requesting and that they are willing to receive Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations any communications including communications relating 2003 have altered the position to permit shares purchased to the Companys securities made at the meeting.
by the Company out of distributable profits to be held as Treasury Shares which may be cancelled, sold for cash or transferred for the purposes of the Companys employee share schemes.
The Company currently holds no Treasury Shares, and it is not intended that any shares purchased pursuant to this authority will be held in treasury.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or on 6 May 2008, whichever is the earlier.
99 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 A419 A4311 A419 Cirencester A419 Notice of Annual General Meeting Guidance notes for completion of Form of Proxy and 7.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies electronic proxy voting through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service 1.
If you are unable to attend the AGM and wish to appoint may do so by using the procedures described in the a proxy to attend and, on a poll, vote on your behalf, CREST manual.
All messages relating to the please complete the enclosed Form of Proxy and return appointment of a proxy or an instruction to a previously it, together with any power of attorney or other authority appointed proxy, which are to be transmitted through or a duly certied copy of such power or authority under CREST, must be received by Lloyds TSB Registrars which it is executed, to the Companys Registrar, Lloyds CREST participant ID 7RA01 no later than 11.30am TSB Registrars, so as to be received no later than on 5 February 2007, or, if the meeting is adjourned, 11.30am on 5 February 2007.
A proxy need not be not less than 48 hours before the time xed for the a shareholder of the Company and the appointment adjourned meeting.
of a proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting in person.
A map of the location of The Hilton Hotel, Lydiard Fields, 2.
You can appoint the Chairman of the Meeting, or any Great Western Way, Swindon, Wiltshire SN5 8UZ, the venue other person, as your proxy.
If you wish to appoint for the AGM, is shown below.
Please note that coffee and tea someone other than the Chairman, cross out the words will be served before the meeting.
the Chairman of the Meeting or on the Form of Proxy and insert the name of your proxy in the box provided.
You can instruct your proxy how to vote on each resolution on which a poll is taken by placing an X in the For, Against or Vote withheld boxes, as appropriate.
If you do not indicate on the Form of Proxy how your proxy should vote, he she can exercise his her discretion as to whether, and if so how, he she votes on each resolution, as he she will do in respect of any other business which may properly come before the meeting.
You must sign and date the Form of Proxy in the boxes A420 Oxford provided.
In the case of joint shareholders, only one need sign the Form of Proxy.
The vote of the senior joint A4259 shareholder will be accepted to the exclusion of the Hilton votes of the other joint shareholders.
For this purpose, seniority will be determined by the order in which the A3102 names of the shareholders appear in the register of Swindon Town Centre members in respect of the joint shareholding.
If the Form M4 Bristol M4 London 16 15 of Proxy is signed by someone else on behalf of the registered holder s, the appropriate power of attorney or A3102 other authority or a duly certied copy of such power or authority under which it is executed must be returned with the Form of Proxy.
A corporation should execute the Form of Proxy under its common seal or otherwise in accordance with section 36A of CA 1985 or by signature on its behalf by a duly authorised officer or attorney whose power of attorney or other authority should be returned with the Form of Proxy.
Alternatively, you can register the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging on to the website www.
co. uk, where full details of the procedure are given.
You will need to have your Form of Proxy to hand when you log on as it has information required in the process.
Electronic proxy voting instructions must be received no later than 11.30am on 5 February 2006.
100 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 A4361 A4361 Devizes A346 Marlborough Company Information Smiths News Head Office We operate 45 distribution Telephone: 0845 1230000 Facsimile: 01793 563601 Website: www.
co. uk centres in England and Bedford Wales serving 22,000 Birmingham Blackpool retailers daily.
Bodmin Bolton Borehamwood Bridgend Bury St Edmunds Cambridge Cardiff Carmarthen Crawley Croydon Gloucester Hammersmith Hereford High Wycombe Hornsey Kidderminster Kings Lynn Lancaster Leicester Liverpool London Travel News Manchester Milton Keynes Newcastle Newport Newton Abbott Northampton Nottingham Oxford Peterborough Plymouth Reading Redditch Redruth Sheffield Slough Stockport Stoke Wednesbury Wigan Wimbledon Worcester This annual report is printed on paper made with elemental chlorine free pulp from sustainable sources.
It is manufactured under an ISO 14001:2004 certied Environmental Management System EMS, showing continuous improvement and evaluation of environmental performance including production, distribution and closing the loop on waste management.
Printed by a company accredited with ISO 9002 and utilising vegetable oil based inks.
101 Smiths News PLC Designed by greymatter williams and phoa Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Smiths News PLC Wakeeld House Pipers Way, Swindon SN3 1RF Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Summary Financial Statement The summary financial statement was approved by the Board on 12 October 2006 Mark Cashmore Alan Humphrey Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director The summary financial statement on pages 18 to 37 are a summary of information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2006.
The Directors Report, Business Review, Accounts and Auditors Report, which is unqualied, are contained in a separate publication entitled Annual Report and Accounts 2006.
These are not the Groups statutory financial statements and other information as required by s240 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
The summary financial statements do not contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Group, and of their policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration, as would be provided by the full annual financial statements and reports and that members requiring more detailed financial information have the right to obtain, free of charge, a copy of the Companys last full financial statements and reports.
Members who wish to receive, free of charge, a copy of the full annual financial statements and reports for the year ended 31 August 2006 or who wish to receive all financial statements and reports in place of summary financial statements for all future years should write to the Company Secretary at: The Company Secretary Smiths News PLC Wakeeld House Pipers Way Swindon Wiltshire SN3 1RF Contents 2 Smiths News at a Glance 4 Chairmans Statement It has been a momentous year 6 Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review for Smiths News.
The business Corporate Responsibility 16 Board of Directors 17 Executive Management Team produced a market-leading 18 Summary Directors Report 21 Corporate Governance performance in a challenging 25 Summary Remuneration Report 32 Group Income Statement 34 Group Balance Sheet trading environment with 36 Group Cash Flow Statement 37 Basis of Preparation Independent Auditors Statement increased profitability, to the Members of Smiths News PLC 38 Information for Shareholders improved service and the 40 Notice of Annual General Meeting 44 Company Information 45 Geographic Coverage successful renewal of key contracts, together with some new contract gains.
Smiths News has a strong heritage.
We plan to build on it, ensuring that we are the preferred wholesaler for publishers and retailers and a benchmark of excellence in the industry.
We aim to give our shareholders a solid return and good prospects for future growth.
1 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Smiths News at a Glance Smiths News is the UKs leading wholesaler of newspapers and magazines.
Right product, right time, right place we work 24 hours a day, 364 days a year to meet the needs of retailers and publishers.
Our publishers Our retailers We distribute newspapers on behalf We serve 22,000 retailers across England of all the major national newspaper and Wales, from the smallest corner publishers, as well as a large number shop to big supermarkets.
We supply of regional daily and weekly newspapers.
magazines and newspapers to large, We distribute magazines for large general retailers as well as smaller, more and small publishers alike.
As well as specialist independent newsagents.
distribution and copy allocation, we Our service to retailers, both independents undertake sales development activities and multiple groups, aims to maximise and provide publishers with sales data sales and availability as well as handling to grow sales.
Our customer service teams take over 70,000 retailer calls a week.
Process Distribution Information and technology We deliver 59 million newspapers and magazines every We have invested 22m in implementing one of the biggest week.
We receive product in bulk from publishers and SAP installations in Europe.
Our sophisticated packing distributors which we then repack and distribute to retailers.
technology and state-of-the-art, hand-held scanning The newspaper and magazine supply chain is one of the and tracking devices enable products to be tracked from fastest moving in the world.
Copy allocation Returns processing We manage copy allocation for magazines and newspapers We handle 6m unsold newspapers and 5.5m unsold to increase sales and availability, and to minimise returns.
Returns are collected from retailers, We take a channel management approach to copy scanned and processed at distribution depots and sent for allocation, focusing on responding to the needs of recycling.
We pride ourselves on the level of recycling we retailers by type such as independent or supermarket.
achieve and are working with publishers and recycling companies to improve further.
Smiths News is We operate We have a 39 per We deliver the UKs largest 45 distribution cent share by value 59 million wholesaler of centres in England of the magazine newspapers and magazines and and Wales, market and a magazines every newspapers by serving 22,000 36 per cent share week 3 billion market share retailers daily by value of the items per annum and by value newspaper market 2 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Smiths News at a Glance Smiths News complements its core activities with four businesses.
These are InStore, NewsWorks, The Returns Company and Connect2U.
InStore NewsWorks The Returns Company Connect2U InStore is Smiths Newss NewsWorks is a customised Launched on 1 September Launched in 2000, eld-based supply chain software package, enabling 2005, The Returns Company Connect2U is a website solution for retailers and Smiths News to provide TRC handles returns that enables retailers to publishers.
Our team of a comprehensive IT processing for retailers and manage their newspaper over 350 merchandisers solution to publishers and manufacturers.
Utilising and magazine orders online.
offers impartial advice and distributors.
NewsWorks modern technology and It offers an efficient and professional consultations offers a full support, thorough processes, TRC cost-effective alternative for independent and multiple maintenance and hosting helps retailers to manage channel of communication retailers.
InStore uses service, 24 hours a day, their returns accurately and, between Smiths News and the latest hand-held data seven days a week, when appropriate, recapture our customers.
Connect2U capture and communication 365 days a year.
It benets their maximum value.
TRC is also a valuable source technology.
Working in directly from our close enjoyed a successful first of information designed partnership with the major working partnership year, winning contracts to keep retailers up-to-date software company SAP, with world-leading from WH Smith Retail with all the latest product InStore has developed technology businesses, and WH Smith Travel Retail news for newspapers a bespoke scheduling and including Oracle, SAP, to handle book returns, and magazines.
In the monitoring package with Business Objects, IBM, entertainment products last year, Connect2U 2 GPRS transmission.
Most recently, underwent a series of provides up-to-the-minute Areas covered by the it agreed to process Ottakars improvements in response data, ensuring fast, accurate NewsWorks solution range book returns on behalf to customer feedback.
from returns processing of Waterstones.
and financial reporting to copy allocation and distribution management.
This year NewsWorks delivered solutions for Comag, one of the biggest magazine distributors in the UK, and Odyssey, a magazine distributor.
A day in the life of Smiths News 3 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Chairmans Statement Brendan Fitzmaurice Smiths News entered a new era as an independent public company on 1 September 2006.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the staff involved in the demerger, at both Smiths News and WH Smith.
Their hard work ensured that the demerger proceeded smoothly and efficiently.
To coincide with this change, Mark Cashmore was appointed as Group Chief Executive and I became Chairman.
I would like to thank all the staff at I am pleased to report a good set of results for Smiths News, Smiths News.
They are the heart of achieved in challenging trading conditions.
Sales including those to WH Smith Retail were up 2 per cent to 1,210.6m a remarkable operation that serves 2005: 1,187.1m and operating profit was up 4.3 per cent millions of customers every day.
These results reect a continuing trend of profit growth from Smiths News.
During recent Brendan Fitzmaurice, Chairman years, the business has shown predictable revenues and a culture of strong cost control, both of which have contributed to steady profit growth and strong cash ows.
The Board has proposed a dividend of 4p per share, subject to approval by shareholders.
The Board intends to adopt a progressive dividend policy, targeting a dividend that would, over time, be broadly covered twice by earnings.
Smiths News has a strong Board with a wide range of experience.
The day begins when publishers start to deliver newspapers to Smiths Newss warehouses.
Our strategy of improving service and efficiency will continue 4 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Chairmans Statement Brendan Fitzmaurice Smiths News continues to be the market leader for the In closing I would like to thank all the staff at Smiths News distribution of newspapers and magazines.
This year we for their hard work in achieving our results this year.
They are renegotiated five major contracts, retaining all our existing at the heart of a remarkable operation that serves millions of territories with Associated Newspapers, Financial Times, consumers every day.
I am looking forward to working with Guardian Newspapers, and Northern and Shell.
In April 2006 everyone in the business to ensure that we build on our our contract with magazine distributor, Frontline, was heritage and full our potential over the coming years.
increased by 50m annualised sales revenue as we won additional territories.
Brendan Fitzmaurice Chairman In July 2006 the Office of Fair Trading issued a draft opinion 12 October 2006 on the status of magazine and newspaper distribution contracts under competition law.
It also announced its intention to review the Newspaper Code of Practice that was established after the Monopolies and Mergers Commission enquiry into newspaper distribution in 1993.
A final opinion is expected in the spring of 2007, together with the outcome of the Newspaper Code review.
We believe the current arrangements serve consumers well, however, for some time our plans have recognised the market is becoming more retailer focused.
Regardless of the outcome, our strategy of improving service and efficiency will not alter and the business is well placed to respond to change and capitalise on opportunities that may arise.
As an independent company, Smiths News has a strong Board with a wide range of experience.
I am delighted that by appointing Dennis Millard, Anthony Cann and John Worby we have assembled a skilled and knowledgeable group of non-executive directors.
They supplement the executive directors, Mark Cashmore and Alan Humphrey Group Finance Director.
Stock is checked and despatched to the packing teams, who pack each Newspapers are loaded and customer consignment.
5 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review It has been a momentous year for Smiths News.
Despite tough trading conditions we increased our profits, improved our service to publishers and retailers, and secured new contracts that give us a strong foundation for the future.
In addition, on 31 August we completed the demerger of the Retail business of WH Smith PLC from the Group, a process that could easily have diverted focus from our core objectives.
It is a tribute to everyone in the business that our performance remained on track in all the key areas.
We have grown operating profit by 4.3 per cent on revenues We plan to build on it, ensuring up only 2 per cent.
Earnings per share from continuing operations at 15.1p is up 6.3 per cent and we delivered that we are the preferred wholesaler 27.5m of free cash ow.
This is a good performance in of publishers and retailers and challenging market conditions.
a benchmark of excellence in the Smiths News has a strong heritage.
We plan to build on it, industry as a whole.
ensuring that we are the preferred wholesaler of publishers and retailers and a benchmark of excellence in the industry Mark Cashmore, Group Chief Executive as a whole.
In doing so, we aim to give our shareholders a solid return and good prospects for future growth.
This is an exciting time for the business.
As an independent public company we are better placed to develop and deepen our relationships with publishers and retailers, as well as pursuing new opportunities.
Service levels have improved across all our core Key Performance Indicators.
Newspapers and magazines are delivered to retailers.
We intend to strengthen our position by using our technology and service record to build strong commercial relationships 6 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review Company objectives: We aim to: Smiths News aims to be the best Improve service at all levels.
We will measure progress with transparent performing news wholesaler for Key Performance Indicators KPIs, satisfaction surveys retailers, publishers and shareholders.
We will share the results with our customers, using measurement as a tool for We plan to achieve this by following continual improvement.
clear, focused strategies that benefit Improve efficiency all the stakeholders in the business.
We will use our technology to create new efficiencies and we will manage change in partnership with our retailers and publishers.
Leverage our technology to create a real difference between our competitors and ourselves.
We aim to offer publishers and retailers the UKs most exible and responsive information systems.
Secure our contracts renewing these as they come up for tender, and winning new business in areas where a profitable return can be made.
Value our staff so we develop and maximise the potential of our people, ensuring that they share in our success.
Develop new revenues building on the skills, technology and characteristics of the business.
Each delivery is scanned on Unsold magazines and arrival at the shop to record newspapers are loaded its delivery time.
Smiths News offers the UKs most exible and responsive information systems 7 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review Improved service means fewer errors and less time spent Summary of progress in 2006 rectifying mistakes.
Good service is an important factor The business has made good progress in keeping costs under control, especially when it is underpinned by a clearly dened programme of cost in the year to 31 August 2006. reduction and process efficiency.
This is an important aspect of our business strategy and one that has already Service levels have improved across all delivered results.
our core Key Performance Indicators, The business continues to nd new and more efficient and our insistence on transparency ways of operating.
This year we consolidated newspaper throughout the business has improved marketing into two centres of excellence, and we trialled and established a similar model for customer services.
We the consistency of standards across our expanded the scope of sales-based replenishment for our network.
But we are not complacent: larger retail customers and are planning to do more.
We achieved substantial cost savings across our head office, improvement is a continual process and beyond this we are talking to publishers and retailers, and we will strive for further progress looking at the supply chain as a whole, to nd ways that we can simplify process and eradicate waste.
We intend to strengthen our position by using our technology We have contracts in place for 81 per cent of our business over the next four years, with the remainder operating on and service record to build strong a rolling basis.
This year we secured new contracts with commercial relationships that are Associated Newspapers, Financial Times, Guardian Newspapers, Northern and Shell and the magazine difficult to copy and which will enhance distributor Frontline.
We retained all our existing business our position in the supply chain.
and won new contracts in Derby.
In April 2006 we won additional business from Frontline worth 50m annualised sales revenue.
Our staffs commitment and focus has been fundamental to our success.
This year we introduced a new objective-setting and appraisal process, ensuring that targets throughout the organisation match our overall strategy.
The management bonus system was also realigned to ensure rewards more closely reect performance.
Newspapers and magazines are separated as they are unloaded from vehicles.
Every consignment of unsold newspapers is scanned.
Good service helps to keep costs under control 8 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review Key Performance Indicators Risks and uncertainties We have identied the following Key Performance Indicators Smiths News operates in large and stable markets.
to measure our operational progress.
Financial indicators Revenues are relatively predictable and with strong cost are listed in the Financial Review.
control we believe the risks to the business can be mitigated.
Our assessment of the major risks to the achievement Measure of our objectives are as follows.
Newspaper pack accuracy Magazine pack accuracy Changes in the regulatory environment On time delivery Current investigations by the OFT into the status of exclusive Newspaper returns collection on time distribution contracts continue to provoke uncertainty.
The Magazine returns processing accuracy review of the Newspaper Code could also affect the current arrangements for distributing newspapers.
The above measures have been identied as being the most important aspect of our service to our customers.
The newspaper and magazine industry has long been We improved performance in all of these areas during the subject to review by the regulatory authorities.
Indeed, the year, operating above targeted levels.
review of publisher contracts has been under way for over two years.
Smiths News has played a full part in the Markets consultation process.
The newspaper and magazine markets are worth over 4 billion annually.
We expect the newspaper market to In July 2006 the Office of Fair Trading issued a draft opinion generate modest revenue growth, with price increases on the status of magazine and newspaper distribution offsetting declines in the volumes of copies sold.
It also announced its intention to review the Newspaper Code of Practice that was The magazine market is characterised by innovation and established after the Monopolies and Mergers Commission new launches.
The recent switching from monthlies to enquiry into newspaper distribution in 1993.
A final opinion weeklies reects changing consumer purchasing habits is expected in the spring of 2007, together with the outcome and we have seen all the major publishing houses investing of the Newspaper Code review.
heavily in the weeklies market.
Our view is that despite the change in mix, we will continue to see overall growth in the Smiths News maintains that the current arrangements serve total magazine market, albeit at lower levels than in recent consumers well.
For some time our plans have recognised years.
Additionally, over the next 12 months, our base sales the market is becoming more retailer focused.
As the largest will increase following recent contract wins.
wholesaler, in markets that favour scale, Smiths News is well placed to respond to change.
Regardless of the outcome, our strategy of improving service and efficiency will not alter and the business is well placed to capitalise on opportunities that may arise.
Customer service teams take calls for order Every consignment of unsold alterations, extra copies, magazines is scanned.
9 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review Retail sales Contract renewal A sustained reduction in retail sales would have an adverse Publishers could seek alternative routes to market effect on revenues.
We believe this risk is limited: our core markets of newspapers We have 81 per cent of our revenues contracted for an and magazines have proved resilient, with price increases average of four years, with the remainder operating on sustaining value growth and offsetting volume declines in a rolling basis.
Our contracts incorporate Service Level some categories.
Agreements to ensure publisher needs are met.
Publisher investment Alternative media The market is driven by publisher investment and innovation.
Publishers could switch investment into alternative media.
Any significant switching of investment to other media could Free newspapers have introduced additional competition into have an adverse effect on sales and growth opportunities.
the market, particularly in London and major conurbations.
Magazine publishers continue to invest in new products Despite these developments, the market has proved and we anticipate a number of launches in the year ahead.
very resilient to new media and we believe the long term Newspaper publishers have consistently shown innovation prospects for print media remain good.
in the format and promotion: they continue to invest in print plants, demonstrating their commitment to the long term The risks faced by the business, including those referred future of print media.
to above, are covered more fully in the Smiths News prospectus which is available on the Companys website.
Staff We employ approximately 4,300 staff and 1,400 delivery contractors nationwide.
Smiths News aims to be an equal opportunities employer and we select staff solely on merit, irrespective of race, sex, age, disability, marital status or religion.
We are committed to providing a comprehensive training and development programme for our staff.
Sales Centres manage copy allocation for publishers and retailers, optimising sales and availability of newspapers and magazines.
10 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review Corporate responsibility NewsWorks provides IT systems solutions for publishers Smiths News recognises a positive approach to corporate and wholesalers.
This year we completed the development responsibility will benefit all stakeholders of the business.
of a sales and marketing system for the magazine As part of WH Smith PLC we played an active part in the distributor, Odyssey.
As an independent business we will continue to follow good practice and will develop policies and strategy Outlook more particular to the business.
Further details can be found The newspaper and magazine distribution markets continue in the Corporate Responsibility section of this report and on to provide opportunities for growth and development.
combination of a resilient marketplace, a programme of cost savings and efficiencies, and a strong market position New business opportunities underpins the Boards confidence in the underlying progress Independence brings a number of opportunities for Smiths of Smiths News in its first year as a public company.
It will enable the business to work more closely with customers in our primary market of newspapers and magazines as well as in new ventures.
We have a clear strategy to grow the core business and we will not be distracted from this, but we will also look for opportunities to use our skills in additional markets.
Our new venture, The Returns Company, has established itself this year having secured a contract with WH Smith Retail for processing book and stationery returns.
It has also agreed with Waterstones to process book returns from Ottakars stores during its integration into the Waterstones estate.
Following the successful completion of this initial work, we will be looking to broaden the business opportunities.
Magazines are trunked Magazine deliveries continue to newspaper locations from publishers.
We have a clear strategy to grow the core business 11 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance and management The principles of corporate responsibility Accountability for corporate responsibility CR issues sits are important to our business.
Smiths at the highest levels within the business, with a named senior executive responsible for each CR area and for News seeks to manage the impact our the implementation of relevant policies.
Performance is business has on society and the reviewed every four months by the Internal Audit Committee.
Annual performance reviews are then submitted to the environment: we work to maximise Board Audit Committee.
the positive impact wherever we can.
Marketplace We also recognise that effective Smiths News is committed to responsible business management of social, environmental practices and to fostering good relationships with all of our commercial partners, whether they are retailers and ethical issues can help us to identify or publishers distributors.
and manage risks and develop new Customer service standards commercial opportunities.
We are committed to delivering high levels of customer satisfaction and this underpins everything we do.
We carry out regular customer surveys to assess customer service standards.
The survey results form the basis of the customer service action plan with performance incentives for individual employees based on delivery of the required improvements.
During 2005, we introduced a rigorous programme of transparent KPIs.
The KPIs were agreed with publishers distributors and retailers and the results have shown real improvements.
Performance measures include timely delivery, accuracy of supplies and returns, and product tracking to and from stores.
Smiths News is committed to pursuing responsible business practices.
12 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Supporting small businesses in areas of social need Health and safety Our business plays an essential role in supporting rural The Board is committed to maintaining high standards communities.
We provide a high quality of service to all of health and safety in the business.
retailers, whether large multiples or small independent newsagents.
In this way, we play a vital role in supporting The health and safety policy states that all employees have businesses operating in rural communities, enabling local a responsibility for health and safety but that managers and people in these areas to have full access to the news.
Operations Director Graeme Underhill is responsible for advising the Board Condentiality and business best practice on health and safety issues, compliance with the policy and As a wholesaler we hold a significant amount of ensuring that suitable support is available to the businesses.
information that is potentially commercially sensitive to our publishers and retailers.
We operate according to strict The Management team monitors key safety performance guidelines to ensure robust compliance to condentiality indicators and produces a six-monthly report for the Board and wider competition law.
All senior managers receive detailing trends, performance and recommendations.
training to ensure compliance and this is reinforced by We have a properly constituted Health and Safety Committee appropriate internal audit procedures.
that comprises employees representatives, management, trade union representatives and officials.
Workplace We want all our employees to contribute as much as they Accidents and injuries can to the business and its success.
Our specialist training 2006 2005 2004 and development team helps staff develop the skills to deliver their objectives and enables people to reach their Major injuries 6 87 potential.
Our equal opportunities policies outline our Injuries resulting in over 61 62 84 commitment to the principle that all employees should three days absence from work be treated with respect and dignity, and that peoples hospitalisation differences should be valued and recognised in everything All RIDDORS 67 70 91 that we do.
Reportable under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and We have an employee forum with representation at all levels Dangerous Occurrence Regulations.
of the business local, regional and national.
This forum is supported by training and communication, and is used to consult and communicate with staff.
Accidents by type 1 September 2005 31 August 2006 Manual handling 43% Striking xed object 7% Struck by moving falling object 20% Slip trip fall 21% Fall from height 4% Hand tools 5% 13 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Business Review Corporate Responsibility This year, the total number of reportable accidents was Energy reduced by 4 per cent, which is in line with the Health and During the year, we have reduced energy consumption Safety Executives strategy for businesses to reduce by 11 per cent to 24,631,000 Kwh.
Each incident is taken very seriously and measures are introduced to avoid similar occurrences.
Our focus on this area will continue in 2006 07 with the This will continue to be an area of focus in the coming year.
planned launch of an energy-saving campaign to reduce energy consumption across the business.
This will include During the year, over 300 managers have been trained so site audits and the implementation of improved energythey can provide safety training to their staff, with a particular efficiency controls on site.
In addition, automatic meteremphasis on manual handling training, which represents reading devices will be introduced to ensure we have the largest proportionate cause of accidents.
This will enable us to pinpoint problem sites quickly and then take the necessary actions Environment to reduce energy consumption.
The environmental impacts of the Smiths News businesses fall into three main areas: Transport electricity and gas used to operate our offices and We continue to work to optimise the efficiency our distribution centres distribution network, recognising that improved efficiency fuel used to distribute our products helps to reduce fuel consumption and emissions while disposal of unsold products and waste generated also contributing to improved service.
We have replaced a large part of our van eet with new Our environmental policy outlines our commitment to hired vehicles, enabling this resource to be tailored to local improve energy and fuel efficiency, to reduce waste and needs while also using the latest and most fuel-efficient increase recycling.
We recognise that, as well as reducing vehicles.
The eet is regularly serviced to ensure it is our environmental impact, this can also contribute to greater operating efficiently.
We will continue to seek ways to optimise distribution We recognise that in order to implement our environmental routes to reduce mileage and fuel consumption.
As part of policy effectively, all our staff need to understand fully this process we monitor closely developments in alternative the role they can play in helping us to meet our objectives.
This year we launched a trial Environmental Champions project at two sites, Plymouth and Newport.
As part of the trial, an Environmental Champion has been appointed at each site and provided with all the information needed to encourage colleagues to follow best practices in terms of energy efficiency and waste reduction.
If the trial is judged to be successful, it will be rolled out to other sites next year.
14 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Waste Community Transit packaging, namely cardboard and polythene, Our staff around the country play an active part in the local is a major waste component for our business and has been communities in which we operate.
Their actions are often a focus for our waste management programmes this year.
on a small scale, but the cumulative effect is significant.
We have introduced cardboard compactors and recycling For example, this year senior members of the Trade programmes at larger locations.
6.2 per cent of our waste is Marketing team took part in a community challenge to plan now recycled.
Overall we have also achieved an 11 per cent and create a garden for a school in Swindon.
Their task was reduction in the amount of waste sent to landll, reducing designed to help the school, but it was also part of a teamvolumes to 5,220 tons.
building and personal and professional skills development programme for Smiths News staff.
The children came up Any newspapers or magazines that retailers do not sell are with ideas for the garden and the Smiths News team worked collected and brought back to our distribution centres for with the PTA to raise the funds before getting their hands recycling.
Any gifts attached to magazines are segregated in dirty actually creating the garden itself.
Teachers and children the fide-inking process at the recycling mill.
This ensures that were delighted with the results, as were Smiths News staff the maximum amount of bre is extracted for recycling.
who had built a valuable link in the local community while developing project management and team working skills.
This year we have expanded the scope of our sales-based replenishment systems.
This process ensures the number Smiths News is also an active supporter of the NewstrAid of magazines or newspapers a retailer receives is aligned to Benevolent Society, also known as Old Ben.
The charity their typical sales levels.
The system has improved the level provides essential assistance to colleagues from across the of sales and reduced unsolds.
We are in regular contact with news trade who are in personal difficulty in their lives and in publishers to keep them updated on levels of unsold product need of special assistance.
This year, teams from Smiths so that they can take this into account when planning future News took part in several fundraising events to support print runs, again reducing wastage.
NewstrAids work, ranging from a charity golf tournament to sponsored walks.
Popular childrens TV character Mr Tumble opened the new garden built by Smiths News staff at Robert Le Kyng school in Swindon.
15 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Board of Directors Chairman Brendan Fitzmaurice joined the Board and became Chairman on 31 August 2006.
He started his career with WH Smith in 1960 as a trainee manager with WH Smith Retail and joined WH Smith News in 1985 as Magazine Sales and Marketing Manager.
He became Managing Director of the WH Smith News business in 2001.
Deputy Chairman Dennis Millard joined the Board and became Deputy Chairman on 31 August 2006.
He is also the Senior Independent Director.
He is a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committees of Debenhams plc and Xchanging plc.
He was Finance Director of Medeva plc from 1994 to 1996 and Cookson Group plc from 1996 to 2005.
He was a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Exel plc from 2003 until 2005.
Executive directors Mark Cashmore, Group Chief Executive joined the Board on 31 August 2006.
He started his career with Pernod Ricard before moving to United News and Media.
After joining United News and Media in 1989, he held senior positions in a number of news distribution businesses, including Sales Director of United Magazine Distribution, USM and Seymour.
He joined WH Smith News in 1999 and 1 4 1 Brendan Fitzmaurice was appointed Magazine Sales Director in 2001 and Sales 2 Mark Cashmore 2 5 3 Anthony Cann Director with responsibility for newspapers and magazines, 4 Dennis Millard 3 6 5 Alan Humphrey in 2006.
6 John Worby Alan Humphrey, Group Finance Director joined the Board on 31 August 2006.
He has been Finance Director of Our Price, Waterstones, WH Smith High Street Retail and WH Smith News in a career with WH Smith that has spanned 28 years.
He left WH Smith in 2000 to be Finance Director of Waterstones, now owned by HMV Media, before rejoining WH Smith as Finance Director of WH Smith News in November 2002.
Non-executive directors Anthony Cann is a non-executive director and joined the Board on 31 August 2006.
He is a solicitor and was the worldwide Senior Partner of Linklaters, an international law rm, from 2001 until September 2006.
John Worby is a non-executive director and joined the Board on 31 August 2006.
He is a chartered accountant and was previously Group Finance Director and Deputy Chairman of Uniq plc formerly Unigate plc.
He is the Senior Independent Director of Cranswick plc and a non-executive director of Genus plc and is the Chairman of the Audit Committee of both companies.
Board Committees Audit Committee John Worby Chairman Anthony Cann Dennis Millard Nominations Committee Dennis Millard Chairman Anthony Cann Brendan Fitzmaurice Remuneration Committee Anthony Cann Chairman Dennis Millard John Worby 16 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Executive Management Team Executive directors Mark Cashmore, Group Chief Executive joined the Board on 31 August 2006.
After joining United News and Media in 1989, he has held senior positions in a number of news distribution businesses, including Sales Director of United Magazine Distribution, USM and Seymour.
He joined WH Smith News in 1999 and was appointed Magazine Sales Director in 2001 and Sales Director with responsibility for newspapers and magazines, in 2006.
Alan Humphrey, Group Finance Director joined the Board on 31 August 2006.
Mark Charlton, Company Secretary joined WH Smith News in 1993 having previously worked in the regional Press.
Mark was appointed as Business Planning Director in November 2000, with responsibility for strategic planning and regulatory issues.
Mark was appointed Company Secretary on 31 August 2006.
Graeme Underhill, Operations Director joined WH Smith News at the age of 17.
He managed a number of depots before moving to head office in 1997 as Project Manager for the Business Process Review.
Graeme held various senior central roles including SAP Project Manager 1 1 Mark Cashmore and Operations Development Manager before becoming 2 Alan Humphrey 2 5 3 Graeme Underhill Operations Director in 2001.
3 6 4 Jon Bunting 5 Mark Charlton Richard Webb, Information Systems Director joined the 7 4 6 Richard Webb 7 Glenn Leech WH Smith graduate scheme in 1987.
He worked at a number of warehouse locations before moving to head office in 1994, since when his responsibilities have included IS SAP Project Manager and Business Systems Manager.
Richard was appointed IS Director in April 2004.
Jonathan Bunting, Commercial Director joined the WH Smith graduate scheme in 1994.
Between 1994 and 2001 he held various sales and marketing managerial roles before being appointed Trade Marketing Director in 2002.
In his role as Commercial Director, Jon has responsibility for our trading relationships with publishers and retailers.
Glenn Leech, Human Resources Director joined WH Smith News in November 2004 from Ford Motor Company.
Glenn spent seven years at Ford, during which time he held a number of managerial positions in Employee Relations, HR Business Operations and as an HR Project Manager.
Glenn was appointed as Human Resources Director in November 2004.
17 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Summary Directors Report This report has been prepared following the demerger of the Change of name WH Smith Retail business from the WH Smith Group on The Company was incorporated with the name Brightway 31 August 2006 and includes information in respect of Services Limited on 2 August 2004 and changed its name the period up to and including 31 August 2006 when to Smiths News PLC and became a public liability company Old WH Smith was the holding company of the WH Smith on 23 June 2006.
Group and prior to the current Board being appointed as directors of the Company.
Share capital In order to facilitate the demerger of the WH Smith Retail The following denitions apply throughout this report unless business, the Company increased its authorised share the context requires otherwise: capital on 23 June 2006 by the creation of one redeemable preference share of 50,000.
On 6 July 2006 the Company means Smiths News PLC, a public limited shareholders of the Company resolved that the authorised company incorporated in England and Wales with registered share capital of the Company should be increased by the number 5195191. creation of 1,094,999,000 ordinary shares of 1 each and 40 deferred shares of 1.
The share capital was then Group means the Company and its subsidiaries and reorganised by consolidating and subdividing the issued subsidiary undertakings: and unissued ordinary share capital into 300,000,000 ordinary shares of 365p each.
On 31 August 2006 the New WH Smith means WH Smith PLC, a public limited Company completed a reduction of its capital in order to company incorporated in England and Wales with registered create sufficient distributable reserves for the demerger to number 5202036 and which became the holding company take place: the nominal value of each ordinary share in the of the WH Smith Retail business following the demerger: Company was reduced from 365p to 5p.
Old WH Smith means the Company formerly known as Demerger WH Smith PLC, a public limited company incorporated in At an Extraordinary General Meeting of Old WH Smith held England and Wales with registered number 471941 and on 2 August 2006, shareholders approved the demerger of which was the holding company of the WH Smith Group the WH Smith Retail business from the WH Smith Group.
prior to the demerger: The WH Smith Retail business is shown as a discontinued business in the Companys accounts.
The Board of WH Smith Group means Old WH Smith and its subsidiaries Old WH Smith set up a sub committee to ensure that the and subsidiary undertakings: demerger process was carefully managed and completed in accordance with the agreed timetable for the demerger.
WH Smith News means the business carried on by The steps required to implement this proposal included Old WH Smith prior to the demerger, and by the Company the insertion of the Company as a new holding company following the demerger, of wholesaling and distributing between Old WH Smith and its shareholders via a scheme newspapers and magazines to retailers and supplying of arrangement, a reduction of share capital of the Company, other services to publishers and retailers: and the demerger of the WH Smith Retail business by a dividend in specie of Old WH Smith and in exchange the issue to WH Smith Retail business means the business carried shareholders of shares in New WH Smith and a subsequent on by Old WH Smith prior to the demerger and by reduction of capital of New WH Smith.
New WH Smith following the demerger of retailing through High Street and Travel Retail Outlets.
The demerger became effective on 31 August 2006 with New WH Smith being admitted to the Official List of the Principal activities and Business Review UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock The principal activities and future prospects of the Group, Exchange on 1 September 2006. and a review of the development and performance of the business of the Group including a list of the principal risks As part of the demerger, the Company took on 70m and uncertainties facing the Group, are set out in the 50m at 31 August 2006 and a further 20m on Business Review on pages 6 to 15.
Company results The Group Income Statement for the year ended 31 August 2006 is shown on page 32.
18 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Summary Directors Report Major shareholders Corporate responsibility At 12 October 2006, the Companys share register of The Board recognises the importance of the social, ethical substantial shareholdings showed the following interests and environmental issues facing the Companys businesses in 3 per cent or more of the Companys ordinary shares: and is committed to achieving a high standard of corporate responsibility.
Further details can be found in the section Holder Number % on corporate responsibility on pages 12 to 15 and on the Standard Life Group 21,369,449 11.68 Companys website www.
Silchester International Investors Limited 19,470,192 10.75 Political and charitable donations Deutsche Bank AG 9,189,711 5.02 Charitable donations during the year ended 31 August 2006 Legal & General Group Plc 6,020,122 3.29 totalled 68,500 2005: 50,000.
In addition, the Company Grantham, Mayo, facilitated the sale of charitable products which gave rise Van Otterloo & Co LLC 5,512,244 3.01 to further donations of 334,529 2005: 286,000 and also made donations in kind with an estimated value of 105,000 Dividends 2005: 180,000.
Employees are encouraged to give their The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend time and skills for the benefit of a variety of charitable causes.
for the year of 4p per ordinary share on 9 February 2007 to members on the Register at the close of business on It is the Companys policy not to make political donations 12 January 2007. and no political donations or EU political expenditure were made in the year 2005: nil.
This final dividend, together with the final dividend of 6.2p recommended by New WH Smith on 12 October 2006 and Payment policy for suppliers the interim dividend of 5.1p per ordinary share paid on 15 The Companys policy for the payment of suppliers, which June 2006 by Old WH Smith, makes a total dividend paid complies with the CBI Code of Practice for Buyers, is to to the shareholders of Old WH Smith assuming they have agree the terms of payment in advance in line with normal retained the shares in the Company and New WH Smith trade practice and, provided a supplier performs in accordance they received pursuant to the demerger of 15.3p per with the agreement, to abide by such terms.
The Companys ordinary share for the year ended 31 August 2006. trade creditors gure as at the balance sheet date was equivalent to 32 days 2005: 36 days based on average The directors intend to adopt a progressive dividend policy daily amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year.
which will, over time, aim to target a dividend which would be broadly covered twice by earnings.
Directors The names of the directors as at the date of this report, Employees together with biographical details, are set out on page 16.
The Group employs approximately 4,300 people throughout All the current directors, Brendan Fitzmaurice, Dennis Millard, the United Kingdom and it is proud of its long history of being Mark Cashmore, Alan Humphrey, Anthony Cann and John regarded as a responsible and respected employer.
Worby were appointed as directors on 31 August 2006.
The following served as directors in the financial year ended 31 Employees are kept well informed of the performance and August 2006: objectives of the Group through personal briengs and email and the Companys open management style encourages SDG Registrars Limited was appointed as a director on employees to contribute to the development of the business.
2 August 2004 and resigned on 23 June 2006: The Company intends to operate an Inland Revenue Ian Houghton was appointed as a director on 21 June 2006 Approved Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme and resigned on 26 June 2006: Sharesave Scheme which provides employees with the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company.
Alan Stewart was appointed as a director on 21 June 2006 and resigned on 31 August 2006: The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture that is free from discrimination and harassment John Barton was appointed as a director on 26 June 2006 and will not permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
and resigned on 31 August 2006: The Company gives proper consideration to applications for employment when these are received from disabled Mike Ellis was appointed as a director on 26 June 2006 and people and employs disabled people whenever suitable resigned on 31 August 2006: vacancies arise.
Should an employee become disabled when working for the Company, efforts are made to continue Luke Mayhew was appointed as a director on 26 June 2006 their employment and retraining is provided if necessary.
and resigned on 31 August 2006: MT Rainey was appointed as a director on 26 June 2006 and resigned on 31 August 2006: Kate Swann was appointed as a director on 26 June 2006 and resigned on 31 August 2006: Robert Walker was appointed as a director on 26 June 2006 and resigned on 31 August 2006.
19 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Summary Directors Report Alan Stewart was appointed as a director of New WH Smith Annual General Meeting on 21 June 2006.
Robert Walker, John Barton, Mike Ellis, The first Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held Luke Mayhew, MT Rainey and Kate Swann were appointed at The Hilton Hotel, Lydiard Fields, Great Western Way, directors of New WH Smith on 26 June 2006.
Swindon, Wiltshire SN5 8UZ on 7 February 2007 at 11.30am.
The Companys Articles of Association require that at the The Notice of Annual General Meeting is set out on pages first three Annual General Meetings AGM following the 40 to 43 and contains 5 items of special business.
demerger, one third of the directors shall retire from office Explanatory notes relating to the special business are set but shall be eligible for re-appointment.
At each AGM out on pages 41 and 42. thereafter any director then in office who has been appointed by the Board since the previous AGM or has held office Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors for three years or more since he was appointed or last Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report re-appointed by the Company in general meeting shall confirms that: be eligible for re-appointment.
1 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are Dennis Millard was appointed to the Board as a nonunaware: and executive director on 31 August 2006 and pursuant to 2 the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have the Companys Articles of Association retires and, being taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant eligible, offers himself for election at the AGM.
Dennis audit information and to establish that the Companys Millard has been appointed for a term of three years auditors are aware of that information.
terminable on three months notice by either side in accordance with his letter of appointment.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Mark Cashmore was appointed to the Board on 31 August Companies Act 1985.
2006 and pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association retires and, being eligible, offers himself for election at the Auditors AGM.
Mark Cashmore has a contract of service which may A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as be terminated by the Company giving one years notice auditors to the Company and to authorise the directors or by Mark Cashmore giving nine months notice.
to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the Company at 31 August 2006 This Report was approved by the Board on 12 October 2006. are shown on page 31.
By Order of the Board The Company has executed deeds of indemnity for Mark Charlton the benefit of each director of the Company and each Company Secretary person who was a director of the Company during the 12 October 2006 year, in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the Company or of associated companies.
These provisions are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as dened by section 309B of the Companies Act 1985 and are currently in force.
Old WH Smith gave similar indemnities which were in force throughout the year.
20 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Corporate Governance The Board of the Company is committed to high standards The Board manages the Company through a formal of corporate governance.
schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
These include overall management of the Company: approval of strategic This report has been prepared following the demerger of plans including acquisitions and disposals: approval of the the WH Smith Retail business from the Company on 31 Companys commercial strategy and operating and capital August 2006.
Prior to the demerger, Old WH Smith was the expenditure budgets: approval of the financial statements, holding company of the WH Smith Group and the Board of material agreements and non-recurring projects: treasury Old WH Smith was responsible for the management of the policy: control, audit and risk management: remuneration: Companys activities covered by this report.
The current and, corporate responsibility.
It also delegates specic Board was appointed at the close of business on 31 August responsibilities to the Board Committees detailed below, 2006 and has been responsible for the management of the the role and responsibilities of each Committee being set Companys activities since that time.
out in formal terms of reference which are available on the Companys website and from the Company Secretary This report describes how the principles of good governance on request.
and best practice as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2003 the Code has been applied All directors have access to the advice and services by the Board of Old WH Smith during the financial year of the Company Secretary and may take independent ended 31 August 2006.
The current Board intends to operate professional advice at the Companys expense in the in a broadly similar manner for the current financial year.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information, Board and Committee papers being Having regard to representations made by the Board of sent out several days before meetings take place.
Old WH Smith in respect of the period up to 31 August 2006, the Board confirms that the Company has, except as All newly appointed directors receive induction training on described at the end of this report, applied the principles joining the Board which is tailored to meet the needs of the and complied with the provisions of the Code throughout individual.
The Board of Old WH Smith carried out a formal the financial year ended 31 August 2006. evaluation of its performance in September 2006.
Each director of Old WH Smith completed an extensive The Board questionnaire covering Board and committee procedures On 12 October 2006, the Board comprised the and effectiveness and their own contribution to discussions Chairman, two executive directors and three independent and decision making.
The non-executive directors met non-executive directors.
Short biographies of each of the separately to review the Chairmans performance and directors, which illustrate their range of experience, are provided feedback to him and the Chairman reviewed the set out on page 16.
There is a clear division of responsibility contribution of each of the directors in separate individual at the head of the Company: Brendan Fitzmaurice sessions.
The results of the evaluation were considered by Chairman being responsible for running the Board and the Board of New WH Smith in October 2006.
The Board Mark Cashmore Group Chief Executive being responsible confirms that it intends to undertake a review of its for implementing Group strategy.
Dennis Millard Deputy performance on an annual basis.
The Chairman intends to Chairman has been nominated by the Board as the Senior hold evaluation meetings with each of the non-executive Independent Director.
The Board structure ensures that no directors at least once per year.
individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
The Companys Articles of Association require that at the On 31 August 2006, Brendan Fitzmaurice replaced Robert first three Annual General Meetings following the demerger, Walker as Chairman and, as he was formerly the Managing one third of the directors shall retire from office but shall be Director of the WH Smith News business, he did not meet eligible for re-appointment.
At each Annual General Meeting the independence criteria set out in the Code.
There were thereafter, any director then in office who has been appointed a number of other changes to the composition of the by the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting Board during the year and these are set out in the Summary or has held office for three years or more since he was Directors Report on pages 19 and 20.
All of the non-executive appointed or last re-appointed by the Company in general directors who served during the year and up to the date of meeting, shall retire and be eligible for re-appointment.
The this report meet the independence criteria set out in contracts of service of the executive directors and letters of the Code.
appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during During the year the Board of Old WH Smith met 12 times, normal business hours on any weekday, except Saturdays it is proposed that the Board will normally meet ten times and public holidays, and at the place of the Annual General a year.
Meetings on 7 February 2007 for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
21 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Corporate Governance Board Committees Chairman did not use external consultants given that he was Audit Committee previously Managing Director of WH Smith News but did, as The Audit Committee, which intends to meet at least three part of this process, review his other commitments.
times a year, comprises John Worby appointed Chairman 31 August 2006, Anthony Cann appointed 31 August 2006 Remuneration Committee and Dennis Millard appointed 31 August 2006, all of whom Details of the composition and terms of reference of the are independent non-executive directors.
Mike Ellis Remuneration Committee are contained in the Summary Chairman to 31 August 2006, John Barton and Luke Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 31.
Mayhew were members of the Committee until their resignations on 31 August 2006.
Attendance at Board Committee meetings The following table shows the number of Board and The Committees terms of reference, which are available on Committee meetings of Old WH Smith held during the the Companys website and from the Company Secretary on year ended 31 August 2006 and the attendance record request, set out the responsibilities of the Committee, which of individual directors.
include monitoring the integrity and clarity of the financial Board Committee meetings statements and any formal announcements relating to the meetings Companys financial performance and reviewing any Audit  financial reporting issues and judgements which ations eration they contain: reviewing the consistency of, and any changes No.
of meetings 12 5 1 5 to, accounting policies, the application of appropriate Robert Walker 12 1 accounting standards and the methods used to account Kate Swann 11 1 for significant or unusual transactions: reviewing the Alan Stewart 12 effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk John Barton 10 5 1 5 management systems: reviewing the effectiveness of the Mike Ellis 12 5 Companys internal audit function and approving the internal Luke Mayhew 12 5 5 audit plan: making recommendations as to the appointment, terms of engagement and remuneration of the external MT Rainey 10 4 auditors: assessing the external auditors independence, Robert Walker, Kate Swann, Alan Stewart, John Barton, Mike Ellis, Luke Mayhew objectivity and effectiveness: approving the annual external and MT Rainey resigned as directors of the Company on 31 August 2006. audit plan and reviewing with the external auditors the nature, scope and results of their audit and any issues The Board has met twice since 31 August 2006 and raised by them: developing and implementing the all the directors attended both meetings.
In addition, Companys policy on the engagement of the external the Remuneration Committee has met twice and the Audit auditors to supply non-audit services: and reviewing Committee has met once since 31 August 2006.
These the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise meetings were attended by all committee members.
concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters whistleblowing.
Directors remuneration Full details of the Companys remuneration policy and Nominations Committee individual directors remuneration are contained in the The Nominations Committee, which will meet as required, Summary Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 31. comprises Dennis Millard appointed Chairman 31 August 2006, Anthony Cann appointed 31 August 2006, and Risk and internal control Brendan Fitzmaurice appointed 31 August 2006.
Robert The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys Walker Chairman to 31 August 2006, John Barton, system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, MT Rainey and Kate Swann were members of the whilst the role of management is to implement the Boards Committee until their resignations on 31 August 2006. policies on risk and control and provide assurance on compliance with these policies.
Such a system is, however, The Committees terms of reference, which are available on designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure the Companys website and from the Company Secretary to achieve business objectives, and can only provide on request, set out the responsibilities of the Committee, reasonable and not absolute assurance against material which include keeping under review the structure, size and misstatement or loss.
composition of the Board and making recommendations with regard to any changes: giving full consideration to succession i Risk planning: evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for experience of the Board: preparing a description of the role identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks and capabilities required for any particular Board appointment: faced by the Company including those risks relating to and, identifying and nominating for approval by the Board social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process was candidates to ll Board vacancies as they arise.
in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and meets the requirements The appointments of Anthony Cann, Dennis Millard and of the revised guidance entitled Internal Control Guidance John Worby on 31 August 2006 as directors of the Company for Directors on the Combined Code issued in September were made following searches conducted by the Company 1999.
The Audit Committee has kept under review the and external consultants and recommendations made by the effectiveness of the system of internal control and has Committee.
The Board in appointing Brendan Fitzmaurice as reported regularly to the Board.
22 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Corporate Governance The key features of the risk management process for the the Board established an organisation structure with financial year to 31 August 2006 were as follows: clearly dened lines of responsibility and approval each business conducted an annual risk assessment controls identifying transactions requiring approval by based on identied business objectives which were the Board or by the Approvals Committee.
The Finance reviewed and agreed by its management board.
Risks Director was responsible for the functional leadership were categorised into strategic, operational, financial and development of the Companys finance activities: and compliance and were evaluated in respect of their there was a comprehensive system for budgeting and potential impact and likelihood.
These risk assessments planning and for monitoring and reporting the were updated and reviewed quarterly by the risk performance of the Companys business to the directors.
committees within each business and were reported to Monthly results were reported against budget and prior the Business Risk Steering Committee and the Executive year, and forecasts for the current financial year were and Audit Committees: regularly revised in the light of actual performance.
a group wide risk assessment was also undertaken by These cover profits, cash ows, capital expenditure the Group internal audit function, which considered all and balance sheets: areas of potential risk across all systems, functions the Company established a uniform system of and key business processes.
This risk assessment investment appraisal: together with the business risk assessment forms the executive management dened the financial controls basis for determining the internal audit plan.
Audit and procedures with which each business is required to reports in relation to areas reviewed were discussed comply.
Key controls over major business risks included and agreed with the business risk committees and reviews against performance indicators and exception Audit Committee: and reporting and each business was required to prepare the Group internal audit team met annually with senior monthly management accounts: and executives in order to complete a formal certication of routine reports were prepared to cover treasury activities the effectiveness of internal controls.
These reports were and risks, for review by senior executives, and annual submitted to the respective business risk committee.
reports were prepared for the Board covering treasury Certicates were also provided by each business risk policies, insurance and pensions.
committee to the Audit Committee, to assist the Board in conducting its annual review of internal controls in b Non-financial controls compliance with Turnbull guidance.
The Company established a wide range of non-financial controls covering areas such as health and safety, ii Internal control environment, ethical trading, employment and business a Financial controls continuity the effectiveness of which was regularly reviewed The Company has an established framework of internal by the executive management and the Board.
The key financial control, the effectiveness of which was regularly elements for the financial year to 31 August 2006 were reviewed by the executive management and the Board.
as follows: The key elements of this for the financial year to 31 August a corporate responsibility strategy was approved by 2006 were as follows: the Board, including objectives and targets to address the Board was responsible for overall Company strategy, the impact our activities had on the environment, for approving revenue and capital budgets and plans, workplace, marketplace and community: for approving major acquisitions and disposals and for clear accountability for corporate responsibility issues determining the financial structure of the Company were dened at Board and operational level: including treasury and dividend policy.
Monthly results, the Company appointed a Corporate Responsibility variances from plan and forecasts were reported to Committee to take responsibility for reviewing performance the Board: in delivering corporate responsibility objectives: the Audit Committee assisted the Board in the annual updates were submitted to the Board on each discharge of its duties regarding the Companys financial aspect of corporate responsibility: statements, accounting policies and the maintenance the Board was committed to maintaining high standards of proper internal financial controls.
The Committee of health and safety in all its business activities.
These provided a direct link between the Board and the external standards were set out in the Companys Health and auditors through regular meetings: Safety Policy which was regularly reviewed by the Board.
the internal audit function advised and assisted business The Risk Management team worked with the business management to establish and maintain adequate financial to assess health and safety risks and introduce systems controls and reports to the Board and Audit Committee to mitigate them.
All notied accidents were investigated on the effectiveness of those controls: and targets were set to reduce the level of incidence: routine financial reviews were held between the Finance the Board approved an Environmental Policy which set Director and business finance directors and other out the Companys objectives and specic targets which executives and their staff.
These were held regularly are reviewed annually: for all businesses: 23 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Corporate Governance Shareholders vote on each resolution on a show of hands, the Board was committed to ensuring reasonable unless a poll is validly called, and after each such vote the standards among its suppliers and approved an Ethical number of proxy votes received for, against, and withheld is Trading Code of Conduct setting out the standards it announced.
The proxy gures are made available in writing expected its suppliers to adopt.
This policy covers health at the end of the meeting, announced to the London Stock and safety, child labour, working hours, discrimination Exchange and published on the Companys website.
and the environment: the Company was committed to ensuring that its The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and personnel meet good standards of integrity and concerns of major shareholders.
The Chief Executive and competence.
The Companys systems cover the Finance Director update the Board following meetings with recruitment, training and development of personnel, major shareholders and analysts briengs are circulated to an appropriate division of responsibilities and the the Board.
When requested to do so, the Chairman, Senior communication of company policies and procedures Independent Director and other non-executive directors throughout the organisation: and attend meetings with major shareholders.
The Senior Business Recovery Plans existed to enable the Independent Director is available on request to attend business to continue in the event of a disaster with meetings with major shareholders.
Compliance with the Combined Code Auditor independence Throughout the year ended 31 August 2006 the Company The Board is satisfied that Deloitte & Touche LLP has has complied with the Code, except as follows: adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is maintained.
2.2 Chairman Board has also adopted a formal policy on the Companys Brendan Fitzmaurice does not meet the independence relationship with its auditor in respect of non-audit work.
criteria set out in the Code as he was formerly Managing The auditors may only provide such services provided Director of WH Smith News.
The Board believed that that such advice does not conict with their statutory appointing Brendan Fitzmaurice as Chairman was in the responsibilities and ethical guidance.
The Audit Committee best interests of the Company and shareholders as his Chairmans pre-approval is required before the Company appointment provided for continuity during this period uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out of transition.
7.1 Re-appointment of directors Going concern The Articles provide that at the first three Annual General The directors consider that the Company has adequate Meetings following the demerger, one-third of the directors resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
shall retire from office but shall be eligible for re-appointment.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis This provision was included in the Articles, as a result in preparing the accounts.
of the demerger, to provide an even spread of director re-appointments and hence not all directors are standing Relations with shareholders for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is understood.
This is achieved principally through the annual report and accounts and the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, a range of corporate information, including all Company announcements and presentations, is available to investors on the Companys website www.
Formal presentations were made as part of the demerger of the WH Smith Retail business and are made to institutional shareholders following the announcement of the Companys full year and interim results.
The Board recognises that the Annual General Meeting is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer any questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is contained in the annual report which is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Those shareholders who have elected to receive electronic communication receive notice of the availability of the annual report on the Companys website.
24 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Summary Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with the in respect of the Companys pension schemes and Allen & Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Overy LLP also provided the Company with other legal Part A of the report, which is not subject to audit, sets out services.
Tanith Dodge, WH Smith Group Human Resources the Companys remuneration policy.
Part B, which has been Director, Julia Davenport, WH Smith Group Head of Reward, audited, provides details of the remuneration, pensions and Ian Houghton, Company Secretary of WH Smith Group, and share incentives of the directors for the year ended also materially assisted the Committee prior to the demerger 31 August 2006.
This report has also been prepared and Glenn Leech, Human Resources Director, and Mark following the demerger of the WH Smith Retail business Charlton, Company Secretary, have also materially assisted from the Company on 31 August 2006 and includes the Committee following the demerger in carrying out its information in respect of Old WH Smith for the period up duties, except in relation to their own remuneration.
until 31 August 2006 when Old WH Smith was the holding company of the WH Smith Group.
The current members Remuneration policy of the Remuneration Committee were appointed on The Companys remuneration policy aims to encourage 31 August 2006. a performance-based culture, attract and retain high calibre executive directors and align executive directors and Part A Unaudited shareholders interests.
In forming this policy the Committee Remuneration Committee has adopted the principles set out in Section B of the The Remuneration Committee of Old WH Smith met Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
five times in the year ended 31 August 2006.
John Barton Chairman to 31 August 2006, Luke Mayhew and MT Rainey The aims of the policy are achieved by providing a were members of the Committee until their resignations on remuneration package, comprising salary and benets, 31 August 2006. positioned at the median of a comparator group of peer companies, pension provision and performance related The current Remuneration Committee, which intends benets.
Any payments made to executive directors other to meet at least three times a year, comprises three than salary are not pensionable.
The performance related independent non-executive directors, Anthony Cann benets, which consist of an annual performance bonus Chairman, Dennis Millard and John Worby.
and long term incentives, account for a significant proportion of total remuneration.
Following the demerger of the The Committees terms of reference, which are available on WH Smith Retail business on 31 August 2006, the Company the Companys website and from the Company Secretary has commissioned Mercer to undertake a review of on request, set out the responsibilities of the Committee remuneration to determine the appropriateness of the which include determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration of executive directors and other senior broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive executives in the changed circumstances of Smiths News directors and certain other senior executives: in determining as an independent listed company.
such policy to take into account all factors which it deems necessary, the objective of such policy being to ensure that Expected relative value of future annual remuneration executive management are provided with appropriate package for executive directors incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, Fixed Performance-related in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual Annual Long term contributions to the success of the Company: approving Name Salary bonus incentives the design of, and targets for, any performance related pay Mark Cashmore 34% 33% 33% schemes operated by the Company and approving the total Alan Humphrey 39% 31% 30% annual payments made under such schemes: reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board a Mark Cashmore can earn up to 100 per cent of salary for maximum and shareholders: determining a policy for and scope of performance and Alan Humphrey can earn up to 80 per cent of salary for maximum performance under the Annual Bonus Plan.
pension arrangements for executive directors and other b The value placed on long term incentives assumes maximum performance senior executives: ensuring that contractual terms on and comprises the value of shares awarded under the Smiths News LTIP.
termination, and any payments made, are fair to the c The above table does not include the value of other benets and employer pension contributions.
individual, and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised: and, in At an Extraordinary General Meeting of Old WH Smith held consultation with the Chairman and or Chief Executive as on 2 August 2006, shareholders approved the adoption of appropriate, determining the total individual remuneration three new employee share plans by the Company based on package of each executive director and other senior the existing Old WH Smith share plans.
The new employee executives, including bonuses and share incentives.
share plans are the Smiths News Sharesave Scheme, the Smiths News Executive Share Option Scheme and the During the year the Committee received external advice Smiths News LTIP together the New Smiths News and services from its independent adviser, Mercer Human Employee Share Plans.
The Company has also adopted Resource Consulting Mercer, and, following the demerger the following Old WH Smith share plans in respect of options of the WH Smith Retail business, the Committee has also and awards which are outstanding under those plans held received advice from Mercer as its external independent by participating employees of the Company, the WH Smith advisor.
During the year the Committee also received advice Executive Share Option Scheme 1999, the WH Smith 2004 from an independent law rm, Allen & Overy LLP who were L-TIP and the WH Smith 2004 Management Investment appointed by the Company, in respect of share schemes.
Plan together the Old WH Smith Share Plans.
None of Mercer also provided the Company with actuarial advice the Old WH Smith Share Plans will be operated again by the Company.
25 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Summary Remuneration Report Participants in the Old WH Smith Share Plans will receive Long term incentives replacement options and awards for their existing options The New Smiths News Share Plans are as follows: and awards over Old WH Smith shares which will have the Smiths News LTIP same intrinsic value at the time of exchange.
In calculating Under this plan, approved by shareholders of Old WH Smith the intrinsic value of Old WH Smith prior to the demerger in August 2006, executive directors and key senior executives the value of Old WH Smiths shares will be taken as that may be awarded each year conditional entitlements to average of their prices on the London Stock Exchange ordinary shares in the Company in the form of nil cost over any five consecutive dealing days of trading over options or, in order to retain exibility and at the Companys the 30 dealing days immediately before the demerger.
discretion, a cash sum linked to the value of a notional In determining the exercise price of an exchanged option award of shares up to a value of 200 per cent of base salary.
for the Companys employees, the value of the Companys The vesting of awards will be subject to the satisfaction of shares will be taken as that average of their prices on the performance conditions which will be determined by the London Stock Exchange over any five consecutive dealing Committee at the time of grant.
days of trading over the 30 dealing days immediately after the demerger that most closely reects the value of Old Share option schemes WH Smith prior to the demerger.
The Company operates two types of share option scheme both of which were approved by shareholders The Remuneration Committee of Old WH Smith determined of Old WH Smith in August 2006: that the performance condition in respect of all options a an Executive Share Option Scheme which is used to granted up to and including November 2003 would be grant options to executives up to an annual limit of satisfied as at the date they were due to be measured.
The exercise of options is It also determined that the performance criteria for all other conditional upon the achievement of a performance target exchanged options and awards will be the same as the which is determined by the Board at the time of grant: and old performance conditions but relate to the performance b an Inland Revenue Approved Save-As-You-Earn of the Company.
share option scheme the Sharesave Scheme.
The Sharesave Scheme is open to all UK employees who The fees paid to non-executive directors are determined by have completed one years service and who enter an the Chairman and the executive members of the Board and approved savings contract for a term of three or five take into account the required time commitment and the fee years.
The maximum amount which can be saved payments for non-executive directors of similar organisations.
is 250 per month, the total savings at the end of the Non-executive directors do not participate in any bonus or term being used to purchase shares at 80 per cent share schemes.
of their market value at the start of the savings contract.
Salary and benets The Old WH Smith Share Plans are as follows: The salaries of executive directors are generally reviewed WH Smith Deferred Bonus Plan in September.
When conducting this review, the Committee The Deferred Bonus Plan, under which executive directors takes into account a range of factors including the Companys and senior executives received 30 per cent of their annual performance, market conditions, the prevailing market rates bonus in ordinary shares of Old WH Smith and could invest for similar positions in a comparable group of companies, the a further 25 per cent of their annual bonus in ordinary shares responsibilities, individual performance and experience of of Old WH Smith which would be matched on 1:2 basis after each executive director and the level of salary increases three years or on a 1:1 basis after five years, subject to awarded to employees throughout the Company.
Executive continued employment, was not operated during the year directors also receive taxable benets including the provision ended 31 August 2006.
Following the sanction of the of a company car and private medical insurance.
scheme of arrangement by the Court on 25 August 2006, Mark Cashmore received 3,930 Old WH Smith shares with Annual Bonus Plan a market value of 18,854 and Alan Humphrey received For the year under review, Kate Swann and Alan Stewart had 6,113 Old WH Smith shares with a market value of 29,327. the opportunity to receive an annual bonus up to a maximum This Scheme was not adopted by the Company as all of 125 per cent of base salary.
The executive directors awards were released to participants on 25 August 2006. participate in an annual bonus plan which is designed so that the level of bonus paid is dependent on the achievement WH Smith 2004 Management Investment Plan of a profit before tax and after interest target and personal Participants in this plan who held Old WH Smith shares that performance.
No bonus is paid unless the minimum profit they were required to hold to participate in the Management target is achieved.
Investment Plan Investment Shares have received both Company and New WH Smith shares as a result of the For the year ending 31 August 2007, Mark Cashmore will be demerger.
Kate Swann and Alan Stewart will be required to able to earn a bonus of up to a maximum of 100 per cent of continue to hold both the Company and New WH Smith shares base salary and Alan Humphrey will be able to earn a bonus whilst other participants employed by the Company will be of up to a maximum of 80 per cent of base salary.
required either to continue to hold both the Company and New WH Smith shares or sell the shares of New WH Smith and purchase with the proceeds of that sale net of taxes and dealing costs shares in the Company by 30 November 2006.
If a participant does not continue to hold the relevant Investment Shares for the duration of the performance period, a matching award will only be capable of vesting on a pro rata basis, and will lapse if the minimum investment amount is not 26 Smiths News PLC retained during the performance period.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Summary Remuneration Report The performance conditions to which matching awards are Accordingly, the performance conditions for awards granted subject have been adjusted by the Old WH Smith Board to be in the year ended 31 August 2006 were as follows: equivalent to the performance conditions that attached to the a the performance condition applying to one-half of the matching awards prior to the demerger.
The existing EPS award shares was based on real growth in the adjusted performance condition requires that the EPS of Old WH Smith earnings per share of Old WH Smith over the three years grows by RPI plus 20 per cent per annum over the performance ending 31 August 2008 the Performance Period period for vesting at threshold performance and growth of RPI and would have vested if the following targets had plus 30 per cent per annum over the performance period for been achieved: vesting at maximum performance.
The EPS of Old WH Smith Annual rate of growth in Adjusted for the purposes of the performance condition in the base Earnings per Share of Old WH Smith year was 18.5p.
The EPS performance condition has been compounded annually in excess amended so that it relates to the performance of the Company of growth in RPI over the Performance Period Proportion exercisable and that, based on an assumed level of RPI for the performance period of 3 per cent per annum the threshold EPS Below 3% Zero for the Company will be 11.4p and the maximum EPS will be 3% 30% 14.5p for the year ended 31 August 2007.
9% or more 100% Between the above points Pro rata between The existing Total Shareholder Return TSR performance 30% and 100% condition measures the TSR of Old WH Smith against the TSR on a notional investment in the FTSE All Share General For these purposes Adjusted Earnings per Share will Retailers Index over the TSR performance period.
The TSR be determined by reference to fully diluted earnings per performance condition has been amended so that at the end share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of the performance period the market capitalisation of the adjusted as considered appropriate by the Committee Company and New WH Smith plus reinvested dividends paid to ensure that a consistent approach is taken to such over the whole of the performance period whether paid by measurement of earnings per share, particularly in the Old WH Smith, New WH Smith or the Company are added transition period to international accounting standards.
together to determine the percentage of Matching Awards that vest.
In this way, the value of the TSR of Old WH Smith b the performance condition applying to the remaining over the period up to the demerger will be added to that of half of such an award was based on Old WH Smiths the combined New WH Smith and the Company for the TSR performance against a comparator group of other remainder of the performance period.
companies over the Performance Period and would have vested if the following targets had been achieved: Matching Awards will normally vest on 31 January 2008.
75 per cent of a Matching Award that vests will become TSR performance ranking exercisable immediately on vesting and will remain exercisable at end of Performance Period Proportion exercisable for a period of 24 months.
The remaining 25 per cent will Below median Zero become exercisable 12 months after vesting and will remain Median 30% exercisable for a period of 12 months.
Upper quartile 100% Between the above points Pro rata between WH Smith 2004 L-TIP 30% and 100% All outstanding awards under the L-TIP held by the Companys employees will be exchanged for new awards WH Smith Executive Share Option Scheme 1999 over the Companys shares.
The Remuneration Committee All outstanding options under the approved part of the of Old WH Smith determined that the exchanged awards will WH Smith Executive Share Option Scheme 1999 the be subject to performance conditions which are the same as 1999 Scheme became exercisable from 25 August 2006 the performance conditions in respect of Old WH Smith.
to 29 August 2006 as a result of the demerger.
The performance condition for awards granted in the year All outstanding options held by the Companys employees ended 31 August 2005 was based on the relative TSR of under the unapproved part of the 1999 Scheme will be Old WH Smith over a xed three-year period compared exchanged for new options over the Companys shares.
against the FTSE All Share General Retailers sector, increasing As soon as practicable after the demerger, the Company will on a straight line basis from 40 per cent for median performance grant replacement options Exchanged Options under the to full vesting if Old WH Smith was in the top decile.
unapproved part of the 1999 Scheme in exchange for the existing options Old Options over Old WH Smith shares.
Following extensive consultation with shareholders regarding In respect of each Old Option exchanged, the total value the Management Investment Plan performance targets, of the shares under an Exchanged Option and the total the Remuneration Committee of Old WH Smith adopted amount payable to exercise an Exchanged Option will a combination of financial and market based measures.
It believed that such a combination of targets was best suited to the needs of Old WH Smith and its shareholders.
In respect of all Old Options granted up to and including November 2003, the Remuneration Committee of Old WH Smith has determined that the related performance conditions will be satisfied as at the date they are due to be measured.
27 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Summary Remuneration Report Therefore, Exchanged Options granted in respect of those Performance graph Old Options will not be subject to further performance Cumulative TSR Growth since 31 August 2001 conditions.
Any Exchanged Options granted in respect of Old Options which were granted after November 2003 will be subject to the same performance condition but relate to the performance of the Company.
This performance condition is measured over a xed three-year period and the proportion that will become exercisable increases on a straight-line basis from 40 per cent for adjusted EPS growth of RPI plus 9 per cent to 100 per cent for adjusted EPS growth of RPI plus 15 per cent.
The Committee believes that EPS growth is the most appropriate measure of the Companys underlying financial performance.
WH Smith Group Executive Option Scheme All outstanding options under the WH Smith Group Executive Option Scheme became exercisable from 25 August 2006 to 24 February 2007 as a result of the demerger.
WH Smith Sharesave Scheme 1999 All outstanding options under the WH Smith Sharesave a The graph illustrates the combined TSR performance of the Company and Old WH Smith on a cumulative basis with dividends reinvested as at the Scheme 1999 became exercisable from 25 August 2006 end of each of the last five financial years compared with the FTSE General to 24 February 2007 as a result of the demerger.
Retailers Sector Index over the same period.
b Old WH Smith was a member of the FTSE General Retailers sector and, as such, this sector was considered to be the most appropriate comparator Personal shareholdings group upon which a broad equity market index is calculated.
Executive directors are encouraged to build up and hold a significant shareholding in the Company.
WH Smith Employees Share Trust 1999 and Smiths News Employees Share Trust Contracts of service As part of the demerger the Old WH Smith Employees Share The contract dates and notice periods for each executive Trust Old WH Smith Trust will be split in proportion to the director are as follows: Trusts obligations to the Company and WH Smith as at the date of the demerger.
Notice Notice Date period by period by of contract Company director The Smiths News Employees Share Trust will be used to facilitate the acquisition of ordinary shares in the Company Mark Cashmore 4 July 2006 1 year 9 months for the purpose of satisfying awards and options granted Alan Humphrey 4 July 2006 1 year 9 months under the Companys Share Plans including the Old Alan Stewart 3 March 2005 1 year 9 months WH Smith Share Plans.
The Trust is a discretionary trust, Kate Swann 2 July 2003 1 year 9 months the sole beneciaries being employees including executive a Alan Stewart resigned as a director of the Company on 31 August 2006. directors and former employees of the Company.
The He was appointed as a director of New WH Smith on 21 June 2006.
Trustee is Hill Samuel Offshore Trust Company Limited, an b Kate Swann resigned as a director of the Company on 31 August 2006. independent professional trustee company based in Jersey.
She was appointed as a director of New WH Smith on 26 June 2006.
It is the Companys policy to enter into contracts of employment The number of shares held in the Old WH Smith Trust at with executive directors which may be terminated at any time 31 August 2006 was 7,712,263. by the Company upon twelve months notice and upon nine months notice by the executive director.
In the event of a Pensions change of control of the Company there is a provision in each The Company operates two types of pension scheme, executive directors contract which provides for a payment of a dened benefit pension scheme, Smiths News Pension liquidated damages of 95 per cent of salary and benets if the Trust, and a dened contribution pension scheme, Smiths contract is terminated in breach of the notice period.
No executive directors are members circumstances, the Committee believes that any question of of the Smiths News Pension Trust.
compensation should be decided upon at the appropriate time rather than in advance so that the principle of mitigation is The executive directors participate in Smiths News applied in the particular circumstances.
Under this scheme an executive director may contribute up to an amount equivalent to 5 per cent of The Chairman, who has a letter of appointment, is appointed salary which is then matched by the Company.
In addition, for an initial term of two years, which may be terminated at a pension supplement equivalent to 25 per cent of salary is any time by the Company or upon at least three months also payable which may be taken as an additional pension notice by the Chairman.
contribution or as an addition to basic pay.
For the year to 31 August 2006 the total contribution for Kate Swann was The non-executive directors, who have letters of appointment, equivalent to 35 per cent of salary and for Alan Stewart was are appointed for an initial term of three years, which may be 30 per cent of salary.
terminated at any time upon three months written notice on either side, and are subject to review thereafter.
28 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Summary Remuneration Report External appointments The Company believes there are significant benets to the individual and the Company from executive directors accepting non-executive directorships in other organisations.
Each executive director may accept one non-executive directorship of a publicly quoted company provided that it is not a chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
Non-executive directorships must not conict with the interests of the Company.
The executive directors may retain the fees from their external directorship.
The fees received in respect of the financial year ended 31 August 2006 by the executive directors in respect of their non-executive directorships are shown in the table below: Received Retained Directorship 000s 000s Alan Humphrey Shelter Trading Limited Kate Swann The British Land Company plc 17 17 Alan Stewart Games Workshop Group plc 30 30 Part B Audited Directors Remuneration Following the demerger of the WH Smith Retail business from the Company, the table below sets out the remuneration of the directors of Old WH Smith and the Company for the year to 31 August 2006: Annual Benets, Year to Salary performance pension supplement 31 August fees bonus and other payments Total 2005 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Robert Walker 200 200 119 Kate Swann 494 618 180 1,292 1,280 Alan Stewart 306 352 90 748 359 John Barton 49 49 45 Mike Ellis 42 42 18 Luke Mayhew 38 38 4 MT Rainey 38 38 33 Former directors 1,190 Total 000s 1,167 970 270 2,407 3,048 a Each directors remuneration as a director of the Company can be ascertained by applying time apportionment from the date of their appointment set out in the Summary Directors Report on pages 19 and 20. b Benets and other payments relate mainly to the provision of a company car, private medical insurance and any salary supplement paid in respect of pension entitlement.
c Robert Walker was a director of Old WH Smith on 1 September 2005 and was appointed as Chairman of the Company on 26 June 2006 and resigned on 31 August 2006.
Robert Walker was appointed as a director of New WH Smith on 26 June 2006.
Robert Walkers remuneration for the period of his appointment as Chairman of the Company is included in the above table.
d Kate Swann was a director of Old WH Smith on 1 September 2005 and was appointed as a director of the Company on 26 June 2006 and resigned on 31 August 2006.
Kate Swann was appointed as a director of New WH Smith on 26 June 2006.
Kate Swanns remuneration for the period of her appointment as a director of the Company is included in the above table.
e Alan Stewart was a director of Old WH Smith on 1 September 2005 and was appointed as a director of the Company on 21 June 2006 and resigned on 31 August 2006.
Alan Stewart was appointed as a director of New WH Smith on 23 June 2006.
Alan Stewarts remuneration for the period of his appointment as a director of the Company is included in the above table.
f John Barton was a director of Old WH Smith on 1 September 2005 and was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 26 June 2006 and resigned on 31 August 2006.
John Barton was appointed as a director of New WH Smith on 26 June 2006.
John Bartons remuneration for the period of his appointment as a director of the Company is included in the above table.
g Mike Ellis was a director of Old WH Smith on 1 September 2005 and was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 26 June 2006 and resigned on 31 August 2006.
Mike Ellis was appointed as a director of New WH Smith on 26 June 2006.
Mike Elliss remuneration for the period of his appointment as a director of the Company is included in the above table.
h Luke Mayhew was a director of Old WH Smith on 1 September 2005 and was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 26 June 2006 and resigned on 31 August 2006.
Luke Mayhew was appointed as a director of New WH Smith on 26 June 2006.
Luke Mayhews remuneration for the period of his appointment as a director of the Company is included in the above table.
i MT Rainey was a director of Old WH Smith on 1 September 2005 and was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 26 June 2006 and resigned on 31 August 2006.
MT Rainey was appointed as a director of New WH Smith on 26 June 2006.
MT Raineys remuneration for the period of her appointment as a director of the Company is included in the above table.
j Ian Houghton was appointed as a director of the Company on 21 June 2006 and resigned on 26 June 2006.
Ian Houghton did not receive a fee in respect of this appointment.
k Brendan Fitzmaurice was appointed as Chairman of the Company following close of business on 31 August 2006.
Brendan Fitzmaurice did not receive any remuneration as a director in the financial year ended 31 August 2006 but is paid a fee of 110,000 per annum as Chairman of the Company.
l Mark Cashmore was appointed as an executive director of the Company following close of business on 31 August 2006.
Mark Cashmore did not receive any remuneration as a director in the financial year ended 31 August 2006 but is paid a salary of 225,000 per annum.
m Alan Humphrey was appointed as an executive director of the Company following close of business on 31 August 2006.
Alan Humphrey did not receive any remuneration as a director in the financial year ended 31 August 2006 but is paid a salary of 180,000 per annum.
n Anthony Cann was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company following close of business on 31 August 2006.
Anthony Cann did not receive any remuneration as a director in the financial year ended 31 August 2006 but is paid a fee of 35,000 per annum.
o Dennis Millard was appointed as a non-executive director and Deputy Chairman of the Company following close of business on 31 August 2006.
Dennis Millard did not receive any remuneration as a director in the financial year ended 31 August 2006 but is paid a fee of 50,000 per annum.
p John Worby was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company following close of business on 31 August 2006.
John Worby did not receive any remuneration as a director in the financial year ended 31 August 2006 but is paid a fee of 40,000 per annum.
29 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Summary Remuneration Report Directors pensions Dened contribution scheme The following executive directors were members of a dened contribution scheme during the year ended 31 August 2006: Employee contribution Employer contribution % of salary 000s % of salary 000s Mark Cashmore 15 17 5 7 Alan Humphrey 58 5 8 Alan Stewart 515 5 15 Kate Swann 3.9 19 5 24 This rate applied from 1 May 2006 prior to this date the rate was 10%.
a Mark Cashmore and Alan Humphrey participate in Smiths News Pensionbuilder.
b Kate Swann and Alan Stewart resigned as directors of the Company on 31 August 2006. c Executive directors receive a pension supplement which may be taken as an additional pension contribution or as an addition to basic pay, this payment if taken as an addition to basic pay is included in the table of Directors Remuneration under the heading Benets, pension supplement and other payments.
d The dependants of executive directors are eligible for payment of a lump sum in the event of death-in-service equivalent to four times salary.
Long term incentives Conditional share award Kate Swann received an award of 141,315 ordinary shares on 4 November 2003.
Following the capital reorganisation of Old WH Smith on 27 September 2004, this award increased to 142,415 Old WH Smith shares.
Of these, 71,208 Old WH Smith shares with a market value of 260,265 were released and sold on 21 October 2005 and the balance of 71,207 Company and New WH Smith shares will be released, subject to continued employment with New WH Smith, in October 2006.
Old WH Smith Management Investment Plan Details of the conditional matching awards in the form of nil-cost options to acquire ordinary shares of the Company and New WH Smith granted to executive directors under the Management Investment Plan are as follows: 31 August Market price Exercise 2005 on date of period 31 August or date of Date of grant see note c 2006 appointment grant pence below Mark Cashmore 46,668 46,668 03.11.04 343 01.02.08-31.01.10 Alan Humphrey 97,728 97,728 03.11.04 343 01.02.08-31.01.10 Alan Stewart 412,179 412,179 26.04.05 359 01.02.08-31.01.10 Kate Swann 717,778 717,778 03.11.04 343 01.02.08-31.01.10 a Kate Swann and Alan Stewart resigned as directors of the Company on 31 August 2006. b These awards will only vest to the extent that the performance targets as set out on page 27 are satisfied.
c To the extent that an award vests, 75 per cent will be exercisable immediately following the vesting date 31 January 2008 and 25 per cent will be exercisable one year later.
Awards will cease to be exercisable on 1 February 2010.
b The high and low middle market prices of an Old WH Smith ordinary share during the year were 496.5p and 327p respectively.
c Kate Swann and Alan Stewart resigned as directors of the Company on 31 August 2006. d Executive share options can only be exercised if the performance target is satisfied.
The Remuneration Committee of Old WH Smith deemed that the performance condition set out on page 28 for options granted on or before 20 November 2003 was met for the three-year period ended 31 August 2006. e Any Exchanged Options granted in respect of Old Options which were granted after November 2003 will be subject to a performance target that relates to the performance of the Company.
f Mark Cashmore was granted an approved executive share option over 7,751 Old WH Smith shares on 7 December 1999 and exercised and sold them as a result of the demerger on 25 August 2006.
The market price on 25 August was 479.8p and the gain was 7,193. g Mark Cashmore was granted a sharesave option over 2,945 Old WH Smith shares, at an option price of 251.20p, on 4 June 2003 and 662 Old WH Smith shares, at an option price of 284.40p, on 2 June 2004.
Mark Cashmore exercised his June 2003 sharesave option and sold 2,945 Old WH Smith shares on 15 August 2006.
The market price on 15 August was 475p and the gain was 6,591.
Mark Cashmore exercised a reduced option over 443 Old WH Smith shares in respect of his sharesave option granted in June 2004 as a result of the demerger on 25 August 2006 and the option lapsed in respect of the remaining 219 shares.
The market price on 25 August was 479.8p and the gain, which was subject to tax, was 866. h Alan Humphrey was granted an approved executive share option over 8,823 Old WH Smith shares on 3 November 2004 and exercised and sold them as a result of the demerger on 25 August 2006.
The market price on 25 August was 479.8p and the gain, which was subject to tax, was 12,335. i Kate Swann was granted an approved executive share option over 8,733 Old WH Smith shares on 20 November 2003 and exercised and sold them as part of the demerger on 25 August 2006.
The market price on 25 August was 479.8p and the gain, which was subject to tax, was 11,903. j Kate Swann was granted a sharesave option over 3,491 Old WH Smith shares, at an option price of 271.40p, on 1 June 2005 and exercised a reduced option over 1,209 Old WH Smith shares as a result of the demerger on 25 August 2006 and the option lapsed in respect of the remaining 2,282 shares.
The market price on 25 August was 479.8p and the gain, which was subject to tax, was 2,501. k The total gains made by all directors on the exercise of share options under the Old WH Smith Executive Share Option Scheme was 31,431 and under the Old WH Smith Sharesave Scheme was 9,958. l Alan Stewart was not granted any options under the Old WH Smith share option schemes.
m No options have been granted to or exercised by directors between 1 September 2006 and 12 October 2006.
Directors interests in shares The beneficial interests of the directors and their immediate families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below: 31 August 2005 31 August 2006 or date of appointment Anthony Cann Mark Cashmore 19,594 19,594 Brendan Fitzmaurice 19,343 19,343 Alan Humphrey 37,387 37,387 Dennis Millard John Worby There has been no change in the directors interests shown above between 1 September 2006 and 12 October 2006.
Interest in shares under WH Smith Employees Share Trust 1999 The executive directors, being potential beneciaries of the WH Smith Employees Share Trust, were each treated as at 31 August 2006 as being interested in 7,712,263 ordinary shares held by the Trustee of that Trust.
The shares held in the Trust will be used to satisfy awards and options granted under the Companys and New WH Smiths share schemes including the Old WH Smith Share Plans.
By Order of the Board Anthony Cann Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 12 October 2006 31 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Group Income Statement for the year ended 31 August 2006 m 2006 2005 Continuing operations Revenue 1,095 1,074 Operating profit 34 33 Finance costs 2 1 profit before tax 32 32 Income tax expense 6 7 profit after tax from continuing operations 26 25 profit for the year from discontinued operations 32 22 profit for the year 58 47 Earnings per share Basic continuing operations 15.1p 14.2p Diluted continuing operations 15.0p 14.0p Basic 33.7p 26.6p Diluted 33.5p 26.3p Non GAAP measures 1 Equity dividends per share 4.0p 1 Dividend per share is the final proposed dividend.
Revenue Revenue from continuing operations increased by 2 per cent to 1,211m 2005: 1,187m.
Underlying sales growth was 1.1 per cent.
Underlying sales 1 m 2006 2005 Growth growth Revenue Reported revenue 1,095 1,074 1.9% 2 Sales to WH Smith PLC 116 113 2.6% Total revenue 1,211 1,187 2.0% Comprising: Newspapers 629 620 1.4% 2.3% Magazines 532 520 2.3% 0.9% Other 50 47 6.3% 6.3% Total revenue 1,211 1,187 2.0% 1.1% 1 Underlying sales growth excludes publisher contract gains and one-off prior year book promotions.
2 Smiths News sales to the Retail business are reported as inter-segment sales to discontinued operations and are not included in reported revenue.
Newspaper sales increased by 1.4 per cent on last year.
Underlying newspaper sales growth was 2.3 per cent, driven by price increases which more than offset volume declines.
Total magazine sales were up 2.3 per cent in the year.
In April 2006 we won additional business with the magazine distributor Frontline, equating to circa 50m of annualised revenue, which more than compensated for the loss of some Bauer business in April 2005.
The underlying magazine sales growth excluding these contract changes was down 0.9 per cent year on year.
32 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Group Income Statement for the year ended 31 August 2006 profit for the year m 2006 2005 Operating profit 34 33 Finance costs 2 1 Income tax expense 6 7 profit after tax from continuing operations 26 25 1 profit for the year from discontinued operations 32 22 profit for the year 58 47 1 Discontinued operations comprise the demerged WH Smith PLC for both years and the Publishing business in the prior year, which were all individual segments.
Operating profit from continuing operations of 34m 2005: 33m is up 4.3 per cent.
Gross margin reduced by 2m in 2006 largely due to margin dilution arising from the renewal of contracts and a change in the sales mix.
Operating costs reduced by 3m compared to 2005.
These cost savings have been achieved through process consolidation, greater efficiency and tight cost management.
profits on property transactions were 1m 2005: nil.
Central costs of 5m 2005: 4m included share-based payments, dened benefit pension service charges and central overheads.
Finance costs Finance costs for 2006 have increased by 1m in the year due to increased pension interest.
Taxation The tax charge for the year was 6m 2005: 7m.
The effective tax rate on continuing activities was 20 per cent benefiting from settling some of the outstanding prior year issues.
This compares to 23 per cent in 2005.
We anticipate that our effective tax rate will continue to be lower than the standard rate in the medium term.
Earnings per share and dividend Smiths News generated basic earnings per share from continuing operations of 15.1p 2005: 14.2p per share.
The Board has proposed a dividend of 4.0p per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the dividend will be paid on 9 February 2007 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 12 January 2007.
Discontinued operations Following the demerger of the Retail business on 31 August 2006, the results of the Retail business have been classied as discontinued operations for both the year ended 31 August 2005 and 2006.
The profit after tax from the discontinued business was 32m 2005: 22m.
An exceptional charge after tax of 12m in relation to costs associated with the demerger were charged against the discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement.
A 3m exceptional gain after tax was also recognised in the year against discontinued operations as a result of post retirement medical benefit liabilities being settled.
Basic earnings per share including the discontinued business was 33.7p 2005: 26.6p per share.
33 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Group Balance Sheet as at 31 August 2006 m 2006 2005 Non-current assets Goodwill 15 Other intangible assets 3 18 Property, plant and equipment 19 219 Deferred tax assets 16 57 38 309 Current assets Inventories 12 162 Trade and other receivables 70 111 Cash and cash equivalents 11 46 93 319 Total assets 131 628 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 118 303 Current tax liabilities 15 27 Obligations under finance leases 1 6 Bank overdrafts and other borrowings 45 Short term provisions 5 134 386 Non-current liabilities Bank loans and other borrowings 50 37 Retirement benefit obligation 49 103 Deferred tax liabilities 2 16 Long term provisions 1 12 Obligations under finance leases 2 14 Other non-current liabilities 8 104 190 Total liabilities 238 576 Total net liabilities assets 107 52 Total equity Called up share capital 9 660 B share reserve 2 C share reserve 8 ESOP reserve 7 34 Revaluation reserve 3 Other reserve 280 278 Retained earnings 171 309 Total equity 107 52 34 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Group Balance Sheet as at 31 August 2006 The Groups net liabilities are 107m at 31 August 2006.
Retirement benefit obligation The prior year comparative of 52m net assets included In September 2005, the Trustees of the Pension Trust the discontinued operations, which were demerged on adopted a new investment policy in order to substantially 31 August 2006. reduce the volatility in the fund.
The assets in the investment fund were restructured in order to adopt this policy.
This Smiths News PLC is nanced through a mixture of debt, involved the assets being invested such that they are comprising a term loan and revolving credit facility, finance expected to alter in value in line with changes in the pension leases and equity.
liabilities a Liability Driven Investment LDI policy.
On 26 June 2006, Smiths News entered into a 100m facility On the date of demerger, 31 August 2006, the assets and agreement with Alliance and Leicester Commercial Bank plc, liabilities of the Pension Trust and WH Smith Retirement Barclays Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and The Royal Bank Savings Plan were split between Smiths News and the of Scotland plc comprising a 50m term loan facility, and a WH Smith Retail business by way of a sectionalisation, and 50m revolving credit facility.
At 31 August 2006, the Group are expected to be apportioned 35 per cent to Smiths News had drawn down 50m of the term loan facility.
and 65 per cent to WH Smith Retail.
Each section contains the accounts of members who are or were employed by the At 31 August 2006 net debt of 42m comprised 11m relevant business.
cash, 50m oating rate debt and 3m finance leasing.
Subsequent to 31 August 2006 the Group drew down 20m At 31 August 2006, the Smiths News gross dened benefit from the available revolving credit facility to fund a one-off pension deficit under IAS 19 was 49m, approximately 25m contribution to the Smiths News section of the 34m net of related deferred taxes.
On 1 September 2006, a one-off contribution of 25m was made to the Smiths News section of the Pension Trust.
In addition to the one-off payment Smiths News has agreed with the Trustees to make aggregate ongoing pension deficit funding payments of approximately 5m each year for the next five years.
35 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Group Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31 August 2006 m 2006 2005 Net cash inows outows from operating activities 105 22 Investing activities Interest received 2 4 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 10 2 Proceeds on disposal of subsidiary 222 Proceeds on settlement of loan notes 11 Non-operating disposal costs 3 10 Net cash in subsidiaries disposed 66 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 26 29 Purchase of intangible assets 5 3 Net cash outows inows from investing activities 77 186 Financing activities Interest paid 7 6 Dividend paid 25 21 Repayments of obligations under finance leases 6 6 New bank loans raised net of nancing costs 49 61 Repayments of borrowings 76 Derivative cash movements 1 C share dividend paid on capital reorganisation 143 Purchase of shares for employee share schemes 12 Money returned to ESOP Trust after share capital reorganisation 5 Issue of shares to satisfy employee share schemes 6 2 Repurchase of equity component of C shares 3 62 Net cash outows from nancing activities 63 182 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents continuing operations 4 6 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents discontinued operations 27 12 Net cash in subsidiaries disposed discontinued operations 66 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents in year 35 18 Opening net cash and cash equivalents 46 64 Closing net cash and cash equivalents 11 46 Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt funds m 2006 2005 Net debt funds at beginning of the year 56 35 IAS 39 B and C shares reclassied as financial liabilities 7 Decrease in cash and cash equivalents 35 18 Decrease increase in debt 39 63 Net movement in finance leases 17 10 Net debt at end of the year 42 56 The statutory cash ows for both the years ended 31 August 2006 and 31 August 2005 are for the total Group including discontinued operations.
36 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Basis of Preparation Independent Auditors Statement to the Members of Smiths News PLC formerly Brightway Services Limited Demerger of Retail businesses We have examined the summary financial statement Smiths News PLC completed the separation from the of Smiths News PLC, which comprise the summary Retail business on 31 August 2006.
The results of the income statement and balance sheet, together with the Retail business are classied in the financial statements summary directors report and summary directors as discontinued operations for the years ended 31 August remuneration report.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as On demerger, Smiths News PLC declared a dividend in a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies specie, in which the existing shares in the former WH Smith Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might PLC which owned the Retail business were transferred state to the Companys members those matters we are by Smiths News PLC to New WH Smith PLC a newly required to state to them in an auditors report and for no incorporated company so that New WH Smith PLC became other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we the holding company of the Retail businesses.
In exchange do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than for this transfer, New WH Smith PLC allotted and issued to the Company and the Companys members as a body, for Smiths News PLC shareholders, one New WH Smith PLC our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the share, credited as fully paid, for each Smiths News PLC opinions we have formed.
On 1 September 2006, New WH Smith PLC changed its name to WH Smith PLC.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Review and Summary Financial Statement in accordance The Group has prepared its financial statements under with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility International Financial Reporting Standards for the year is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the ended 31 August 2006.
Comparative information for the year Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement with the ended 31 August 2005 has been restated with the exception Annual Financial Statements, the Directors report and the of deferring the implementation of IAS 32 and 39 on financial Report on directors remuneration and related matters instruments until the year commencing 1 September 2005. and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We report whether the auditors opinion on the full annual accounts was unqualied or qualied.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 06, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the Annual Financial Statements, the Directors report and the Report on directors remuneration and related matters of Smiths News PLC for the year ended 31 August 2006 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
The auditors report on the Companys annual accounts was unqualied.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 12 October 2006 Notes: Neither an audit nor a review provides assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular whether any changes may have occurred to the financial information since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 37 Smiths News PLC and dissemination of financial information differs from Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 legislation in other jurisdictions.
Information for Shareholders Company Secretary and Registered Office Financial calendar Mark Charlton, Smiths News PLC, Wakeeld House, Pipers Financial year end 31 August 2006 Way, Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 1RF.
Results announced 12 October 2006 Annual report posted mid-December 2006 Smiths News PLC is registered in England and Wales Final dividend ex-dividend date 10 January 2007 Number 5195151.
Final dividend record date 12 January 2007 AGM 7 February 2007 Company website Final dividend payment date 9 February 2007 This summary report and the full annual report and accounts, Half-year end 28 February 2007 together with other information, can be found on the Smiths Interim results announced April 2007 News PLC website at www.
Interim dividend ex-dividend date May 2007 Interim dividend record date May 2007 Annual General Meeting Interim dividend payment date June 2007 The AGM will be held at The Hilton Hotel, Lydiard Fields, Financial year end 31 August 2007 Great Western Way, Swindon, Wilstshire SN5 8UZ on Results announced October 2007 Wednesday 7 February 2007 at 11.30am.
The Notice of AGM on pages 40 to 43 sets out the business to be The dividend dates shown above are in respect of the transacted.
Ordinary shareholders who wish to attend the Companys ordinary shares of 5p.
meeting should detach the Attendance Card from the Form of Proxy and present it at the Registrars desk on arrival.
Share dealing services The Company has arranged for Shareview Dealing, Form of Proxy a telephone and internet share dealing service offered A Form of Proxy is enclosed for those ordinary shareholders by Lloyds TSB Registrars, to be made available to UK unable to attend the AGM.
To be effective it must be shareholders wishing to buy or sell the Companys shares.
completed and lodged with the Companys Registrar, For telephone dealing call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am Lloyds TSB Registrars, by not later than 11.30am on and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing 5 February 2007. log on to www.
You will need your shareholders reference number shown on your Electronic proxy voting share certicate.
You may if you wish register the appointment of a proxy for the meeting electronically, by logging onto the website JPMorgan Cazenove provides a postal share dealing service www.
Full details of the procedure are given for private investors who wish to buy or sell the Companys on the website.
You will need to have your Form of Proxy to shares.
Further details are available from JPMorgan hand when you log on as it has information required in the Cazenove, telephone 020 7155 5155. process.
CREST members may appoint a proxy electronically via Lloyds TSB Registrars ID 7RA01.
ShareGIFT If you only have a small number of shares which are Registrar uneconomic to sell, you may wish to consider donating If you have any enquiries about your shareholding in Smiths them to charity under ShareGIFT, a charity share donation News PLC or wish to advise of a change of address, please scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
contact Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, A ShareGIFT transfer form may be obtained from Lloyds TSB West Sussex BN99 6DA telephone 0870 600 3970.
Further information about the scheme can be textphone facility for shareholders with hearing difficulties is found on the ShareGIFT website at www.
In addition, Lloyds TSB Registrars provide a range of shareholders information online at www.
co. uk to register for this service you will need your shareholders account number which can be found on the Form of Proxy.
Electronic communications If you wish to receive future Smiths News annual and interim reports electronically rather than in paper format, you can arrange this at www.
38 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Information for Shareholders 5 UK Capital Gains Tax The cost of your shareholding of ordinary shares of 55 9p is Demerger 31 August 2006 calculated by multiplying the original cost of your ordinary Following the demerger of New WH Smith on 31 August shares of 50p by 0.90714.
2006, in order to calculate any chargeable gains or losses arising on the disposal of shares after 31 August 2006, the The cost of the B shares is calculated by multiplying the 13 original tax base cost of your ordinary shares of 2 18p original cost of your ordinary shares of 50p by 0.09286. adjusted if you held your shares at 24 September 2004 and 22 May 1998 to take into account the capital reorganisations March 1982 values of 27 September 2004 and 26 May 1998 respectively see 31 March 1982 base values per share: below will be apportioned between the shareholdings Arising from of ordinary shares of 20p in New WH Smith and ordinary an original shares of 5p in Smiths News in the ratio of 0.69585 and shareholding of 0.30415 respectively.
A ordinary B ordinary shares shares Capital reorganisation 27 September 2004 Ordinary shares of 5p 26.93p 22.25p If you acquired your shareholding on or before 24 September WH Smith PLC ordinary shares 2004, in order to calculate any chargeable gains or losses of 20p 61.62p 50.92p arising on the disposal of shares after 24 September 2004, Old WH Smith B shares 7.94p 6.56p 5 the original tax base cost of your ordinary shares of 55 9p Old WH Smith C shares 22.42p 18.53p adjusted if you held your shares as at 22 May 1998 to take into account the capital reorganisation of 26 May 1998 3 Old WH Smith 5 4% cumulative see below will have to be apportioned between the preference shares of 1 each 42.50p 13 shareholdings of ordinary shares of 2 81p and C shares 1 Old WH Smith 5 8% redeemable resulting from the capital reorganisation.
unsecured loan stock 33.25 13 The cost of your shareholding of ordinary shares of 2 81p is calculated by multiplying the original base cost of your 5 ordinary shares of 55 9p adjusted where necessary to take into account the capital reorganisation of 26 May 1998 referred to above by 0.73979.
The cost of the C shares is calculated by multiplying the 5 original base cost of your ordinary shares of 55 9p again adjusted where necessary, to take into account the capital reorganisation of 26 May 1998 referred to above by 0.26021.
Capital reorganisation 26 May 1998 If you acquired your shareholding on or before 22 May 1998, in order to calculate any chargeable gains or losses arising on the disposal of shares after 22 May 1998, the original tax base cost of your ordinary shares of 50p will have to be apportioned between the shareholdings of ordinary shares 5 of 55 9p and redeemable B shares resulting from the capital reorganisation.
39 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting This Notice and the explanatory statements which Special business ordinary resolutions follow it are important.
problems arising under the laws or requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange or otherwise in any territory: and ii the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i up to an aggregate nominal value of 457,300: and 40 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting b will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Special business explanatory notes Company or on 6 May 2008, whichever is the earlier, Authority to make political donations: save that the Company may before such expiry make Resolutions 7 and 8 an offer or agreement which would or might require Part XA of CA 1985, amongst other things, prohibits the equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Company and its subsidiaries making donations to EU directors may allot such equity securities in pursuance of political organisations of more than 5,000 in any 12 month such offer or agreement as if the power hereby conferred period unless they have been authorised to make donations had not expired.
41 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting Market purchases of ordinary shares: Resolution 11 Recommendation With the authority of shareholders in general meeting, the The directors consider that each of the proposals Company is empowered by its Articles to purchase its own detailed in this Notice of Meeting will be of benefit ordinary shares in the market subject to the provisions to and in the best interests of the Company and the of CA 1985. shareholders as a whole.
42 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting Guidance notes for completion of Form of Proxy and 7.
You must sign and date the Form of Proxy in the boxes provided.
The vote of the senior joint shareholder will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint shareholders.
For this purpose, seniority will be determined by the order in which the names of the shareholders appear in the register of members in respect of the joint shareholding.
If the Form of Proxy is signed by someone else on behalf of the registered holder s, the appropriate power of attorney or other authority or a duly certied copy of such power or authority under which it is executed must be returned with the Form of Proxy.
43 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Company Information Smith News PLC Wakeeld House Pipers Way Swindon, SN3 1RF United Kingdom Telephone 0845 123 0000 Facsimile 01793 563601 Website www.
co. uk Media Relations Telephone 01793 563516 This report is printed on paper made with elemental chlorine free pulp from sustainable sources.
Designed by greymatter williams and phoa 44 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Geographic Coverage Smiths News Head Office We operate 45 distribution Telephone: 0845 1230000 Bedford centres in England and Birmingham Blackpool Wales serving 22,000 Bodmin Bolton retailers daily.
Borehamwood Bridgend Bury St Edmunds Cambridge Cardiff Carmarthen Crawley Croydon Gloucester Hammersmith Hereford High Wycombe Hornsey Kidderminster Kings Lynn Lancaster Leicester Liverpool London Travel News Manchester Milton Keynes Newcastle Newport Newton Abbott Northampton Nottingham Oxford Peterborough Plymouth Reading Redditch Redruth Sheffield Slough Stockport Stoke Wednesbury Wigan Wimbledon Worcester 45 Smiths News PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Smiths News PLC Wakeeld House Pipers Way, Swindon SN3 1RF
