Explanatory notes to notice of annual general meeting Resolution 8 Authority to issue shares Resolution 10 Purchase of own shares Resolution 11 Political donations This resolution authorises the Board, for a This resolution, which will be proposed as a This resolution authorises the Board to period of 15 months from 8th February 2007 special resolution, seeks authority for the make donations under Section 347C of the or to the end of the next Annual General Directors to purchase the Companys own Act.
Any donations to political organisations Meeting whichever is the earlier, to allot shares.
The Directors are of the opinion that or political expenditure by a company in ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal it would be advantageous for the Company excess of an aggregate of 5,000 must be value of 11,000,000, consisting of to be in a position to purchase its own authorised by the Companys shareholders.
44,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 25 pence shares through the London Stock Exchange, There is no present intention to make cash each and which represents approximately 33 should market conditions and price justify donations to any political party.
of the total ordinary share capital such action.
The proposed authority would Company as part of its normal business in issue on 8th December 2006 the last enable the Company to purchase up to a activity may wish to have contact with practicable date prior to the publication of maximum of 13,200,000 Ordinary Shares, political parties to ensure that they are this document.
The Company does not being 10 per cent.
of the issued ordinary aware of the key business issues affecting currently hold any shares as treasury shares share capital on 8th December 2006 the its business.
Under the Act, the definition of within the meaning of Section 162A of the latest practicable date prior to the political expenditure is extremely wide and Act Treasury shares.
Save in respect of publication of this document, with a stated may be construed as covering such areas of the issue of new Ordinary Shares pursuant upper limit on the price payable which the Companys normal business activities.
It to the share incentive schemes, the Directors reflects the requirements of the Listing is therefore considered appropriate that a currently have no present intention to allot Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
resolution be put to shareholders in general relevant securities but the Directors believe Purchases would only be made after the terms.
The Company will disclose in its it to be in the interests of the Company for most careful consideration, where the annual report, in compliance with the Act, the Board to be granted this authority to Directors believed that an increase in any expenditure or donations in excess of enable the Board to take advantage of earnings or net assets per share would 200 which is within the ambits of the appropriate opportunities which may arise result and where purchases were, in the definitions of the Act.
opinion of the Directors, in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Resolution 9 Disapplication of pre-emption Directors consider that it is prudent to obtain the proposed authority, although the rights Board does not yet have the intention to This resolution, which will be proposed as a implement this strategy.
special resolution, seeks to disapply the pre-emption right provisions of Section 89 of The total number of options to subscribe for the Act in respect of the allotment of equity equity shares that are outstanding on 8th securities including a sale of treasury December 2006 the latest practicable date shares pursuant to rights issues and other prior to the publication of this document is pre-emptive issues or offers and in respect 3,788,285.
of of other issues of equity securities including the issued share capital at that date.
If the sales of treasury shares for cash up to an Company were to purchase the maximum aggregate nominal value of 1,650,000, number of ordinary shares permitted being approximately 5 per cent.
of the pursuant to the authority under this issued ordinary share capital on 8th resolution, then these options would December 2006 the last practicable date represent 3.17 per cent.
of the reduced prior to the publication of this document.
If issued share capital excluding any approved by shareholders, this power will treasury shares.
expire 15 months after the passing of this The Act permits companies to hold shares resolution or, if earlier, at the end of the acquired by way of market purchases as next Annual General Meeting.
The Directors described above in treasury, rather than have no present intention of exercising their having to cancel them.
The Company would authority pursuant to this disapplication, consider holding any of its own shares that but, as in previous years, they consider it it purchased pursuant to the authority desirable that they have the flexibility to act conferred by this resolution as treasury in the best interests of the Company when shares.
This would give the Company the opportunities arise.
ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively, and would provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends would be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights would attach to treasury shares.
Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 page 84 Shaftsbury Cover AW2.
qxd 21 12 06 12:32 Page 2 Shaftesbury at the heart of Londons West End.
Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 Design SG Design | Photography Arnhel fide Serra | Print Beacon Press annual report 2006 Shaftsbury Cover AW2.
qxd 21 12 06 12:31 Page 1 Shaftesbury PLC Pegasus House, 37 43 Sackville Street, London W1S 3DL Tel: 020 7333 8118 Fax: 020 7333 0660 email shaftesbury@shaftesbury.
