Notice of annual general meeting an aggregate nominal amount of February 2007 if earlier save that the Notice Is Hereby Given that the Twenty-First 11,000,000 consisting of 44,000,000 Company may before such expiry Annual General Meeting of Shaftesbury PLC Ordinary Shares of 25 pence each, such make an offer or agreement which the Company will be held at Pegasus House, authority to expire at the conclusion of would or might require equity 37 43 Sackville Street, London W1S 3DL, on the next Annual General Meeting or 15 securities to be allotted after such Thursday 8th February 2007 at 12 noon for months from 8th February 2007 if earlier expiry and the Directors may allot the following purposes: save that the Company may before such equity securities in pursuance of expiry make an offer or agreement which such offer or agreement as if the would or might require relevant power conferred hereby had not Ordinary Business securities to be allotted after such expiry expired.
This power is in substitution 1.
To receive and adopt the audited financial and the Directors may allot relevant of all unexercised existing powers statements for the year ended 30th securities in pursuance of such offer or given for the purposes of section September 2006, and the reports of the agreement as if the authority conferred 95 1 of the Act.
THAT the Company is hereby 2.
To approve the report on Directors 9.
THAT, the Directors be and they are hereby unconditionally and generally authorised Remuneration for the year ended 30th empowered pursuant to section 95 of the to make market purchases as defined September 2006.
Act to allot equity securities within the in section 163 3 of the Act of Ordinary meaning of section 94 of the Act : Shares of 25 pence each in the capital 3.
To declare a final dividend for the year of the Company provided that: ended 30th September 2006 of 3.73p per a. for cash pursuant to the authority Ordinary Share payable on 16th February conferred by Resolution 8: or i. the maximum number of Ordinary 2007 to holders of Ordinary Shares Shares of 25 pence each hereby b. by way of the sale of treasury shares registered at the close of business on authorised to be purchased is within the meaning of section 162A of 26th January 2007.
the Act, for cash, as if, in either case, of the issued share capital of the 4.
To re-elect P J Manser as a Director subsection 1 of section 89 of the Act Company as at 30th September 2006 : of the Company.
did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be ii.
the minimum price, exclusive of 5.
To re-elect J R K Emly as a Director limited to the allotment of equity expenses, which may be paid for of the Company.
securities: each such Ordinary Share is 0.25: 6.
To re-appoint  i. in connection with a rights issue or iii.
the maximum price, exclusive of LLP as auditors of the Company from the open offer or other issue or offer to expenses, which may be paid for end of the Meeting until the end of the ordinary shareholders other than each such Ordinary Share is an next general meeting at which financial the Company on the Company's amount equal to not more than 5 per statements are laid before the Company.
Register of Members on a fixed record cent.
above the average of the middle 7.
To authorise the Directors to agree the date in proportion as nearly as may market quotations for such share as remuneration of the auditors.
be to the respective numbers of derived from the Daily Official List of Ordinary Shares of 25 pence each the London Stock Exchange for the five Special Business held by them subject to such business days immediately preceding exclusion or other arrangement as the day on which the share is To consider and, if thought fit, pass the the Directors may deem necessary contracted to be purchased: following resolutions as ordinary resolutions or expedient in relation to fractional in the case of resolutions 8 and 11 and as iv.
unless previously renewed, varied entitlements or legal or practical special resolutions in the case of resolutions or revoked, the authority hereby problems under the laws of, or 9 and 10: conferred shall expire at the conclusion requirements of any recognised of the next Annual General Meeting of 8.
"THAT, in substitution for all previous regulatory body or any stock the Company or 15 months from 8th authorities pursuant to section 80 of the exchange, in any territory: and February 2007 if earlier: and Companies Act 1985 the ""Act"", which ii."
otherwise than pursuant to are hereby revoked, but without prejudice v. the Company may make a contract to subparagraph i above up to an to any allotment of securities pursuant purchase its own shares under the aggregate nominal value of thereto, the Directors be and they are authority hereby conferred prior to the 1,650,000 consisting of 6,600,000 hereby generally and unconditionally expiry of such authority which will or Ordinary Shares of 25 pence each, authorised in accordance with section may be executed wholly or partly at the and shall expire at the conclusion of 80 of the Act to exercise all powers of the expiry of such authority, and may make the next Annual General Meeting of Company to allot relevant securities as a purchase of its own shares in the Company or 15 months from 8th defined in section 80 2 of the Act up to pursuance of any such contract Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 page 82 Notice of annual general meeting Notes: 11.
THAT the Company and any company 7.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction 1.
"A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to which is or becomes a subsidiary of the made using the CREST service to be valid, the appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and vote Company during the period to which this appropriate CREST message a ""CREST Proxy instead of him."
"A proxy need not be a member of Instruction"" must be properly authenticated in resolution relates be and is hereby the Company."
A form of proxy for use by members accordance with CRESTCo's specifications and is enclosed.
Forms of proxy must be lodged with authorised pursuant to Section 347C of must contain the information required for such the Registrar not less than 48 hours before the the Act to make: instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes i. donations to EU political organisations the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment 2.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a to the instruction given to a previously appointed not exceeding 100,000 and member from attending and voting in person at proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so the Meeting.
as to be received by the issuer's agent ID 7RA01 ii.
to incur EU political expenditure not 3.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the by the latest time s for receipt of proxy exceeding 100,000: Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
specifies that only those shareholders registered For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken provided that any such donations and or in the Register of Members of the Company as at to be the time as determined by the timestamp EU political expenditure made or 6.00 p. m. on 6th February 2007 shall be entitled to applied to the message by the CREST Applications attend and vote at the Meeting in respect of the Host from which the issuer's agent is able to incurred by the Company does not number of shares registered in their name at that retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the exceed an aggregate of 100,000 in the time.
Changes to entries on the Register of manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any period ending at the conclusion of the Members after 6.00 p. m. on 6th February 2007 change of instructions to proxies appointed shall be disregarded in determining the rights of Company's next Annual General Meeting through CREST should be communicated to the any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
or 15 months from 8th February 2007 if 4.
The Register of Directors' Interests in the earlier: provided further that the CREST members and, where applicable, their Company kept under section 325 of the Act and CREST sponsors or voting service providers should Company shall not use the authority copies of Directors contracts of service may be note that CRESTCo does not make available granted other than in continuation of its inspected at the registered office and place of special procedures in CREST for any particular Annual General Meeting of the Company during business activities and that the messages.
Normal system timings and limitations normal business hours on weekdays public will therefore apply in relation to the input of Company's policy of making no direct holidays excepted from the date of this notice CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility contributions to political parties shall until the conclusion of the Annual General of the CREST member concerned to take or, if remain unchanged.
the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting 5.
Biographical details of the Directors standing for service provider s, to procure that his CREST re-election are set out on page 37 of the Annual sponsor or voting service provider s take s such Report.
By Order of the Board action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or Penny Thomas system by any particular time.
In this connection, proxies through the CREST electronic proxy CREST members and, where applicable, their Secretary appointment service may do so for the Annual CREST sponsors or voting service providers are General Meeting to be held on 8th February 2007 referred, in particular, to those sections of the 8th January 2007 and any adjournment s thereof by using the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of procedures described in the CREST Manual.
the CREST system and timings.
Pegasus House CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members 37 43 Sackville Street The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy who have appointed a voting service provider s, London W1S 3DL Instruction in the circumstances set out in should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities service provider s, who will be able to take the Regulations 2001. appropriate action on their behalf.
The Vote Withheld option on the Form of Proxy is provided to enable a member to abstain on any particular resolution.
It should be noted that an abstention is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against a particular resolution.
Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 page 83
