Section 6 Additional Annual Report and 83 Workspace Group PLC information Accounts 2006 Glossary of terms Adjusted NAV per share is NAV excluding deferred tax on IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd, a Company that revaluation surpluses, capital allowances, and the fair value of produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
Adjusted net assets are shareholders funds excluding deferred tax on revaluation surpluses, capital allowances and the fair value of Market rental values see ERV.
Net assets per share NAV are shareholders funds, divided by the Comparator IPD Index is a benchmark index computed by IPD of number of shares in issue at the period end excluding shares held comparable properties in comparable locations to those held by in the ESOT.
Net rents are current rents excluding any contracted increases and Core portfolio like-for-like portfolio are those properties that after deduction of inclusive service charge revenue.
have been held throughout the year and which are not subject to significant redevelopment or refurbishment works.
Occupancy percentage is the area of space let divided by the total net lettable area excluding land used for open storage.
Diluted NAV per share is NAV adjusted for the effect of those shares potentially issuable under convertible loan stock or employee share Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale schemes.
of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups Earnings per share EPS is the profit after taxation divided by the external valuers.
weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Diluted and Adjusted EPS are determined as set out under NAV.
Profit before tax PBT is income less all expenditure other than taxation.
Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT is the trust created by the Group to hold shares pending exercise of employee share options.
REIT Real Estate Investment Trust is a tax transparent property investment vehicle as announced by HM Treasury in 2005 06 and Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and due to come into being on 1 January 2007. reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce based upon the timing of the income received.
Rent per sq ft is the current net rent divided by the occupied area.
Estimated rental value ERV or market rental value is the Groups Reversion is the increase in rent estimated by the Groups external external valuers opinion as to the open market rent, which on the valuers, where the net rent is below the current estimated rental date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a value.
The increases to rent arise on rent reviews, letting of vacant new letting or rent review.
space and expiry of rent free periods or rental increase steps.
Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net assets.
Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
It is Income Statement trading earnings PBT etc is that element of calculated by dividing the ERV by the valuation.
earnings PBT etc that arises from trading activity alone.
It therefore excludes other items below.
SEE means Social Ethical and Environmental matters.
The Group produces a separate SEE report titled Sustainability Report 2006.
Income Statement other items include profits and losses together with their related taxation on sales of investment properties and Small and Medium Sized Enterprises SMEs are those businesses items of a non trading nature such as: valuation adjustments arising with a turnover of less than 1m p. a. or staff of less than 50.
Most from the fair valuing of investment properties and derivative financial Workspace customers are SME businesses with staffing of up to 20. instruments, adjustments arising from the treatment of head lease payments as interest: and certain adjustments arising from the Total Shareholder Return TSR is the return obtained by a estimation of the cost of employee share based payments.
shareholder calculated combining both share price movements and dividend receipts.
Initial yield is the net rents generated by a property or by the portfolio as a whole expressed as a percentage of its valuation.
Valuation Surplus and growth rate is measured as the valuation surplus for the year divided by the total value of the portfolio Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable is covered before revaluation.
Section 6 Additional Annual Report 84 Workspace Group PLC information and Accounts 2006 Publications index Workspace publishes, both on its website and in hard copy, a wide range of documents to assist customers, investors and other interested parties.
Listed below are the principal documents ordered in relation to the sections of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Should you need assistance in accessing any of this material please contact the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office details on page 62.
Section in Annual Report Title of supporting documents Description Section 1 Driving our business forward Section 2 Leading in a Customer Charter Our pledge to our customers growth market Investorshome thedifference customercharter Small Business Links Information for small businesses on Investorshome thedifference smallbusinesslinks where to get help Corporate Responsibility Statements Bi-annual policy reports with annual Investorshome corporatepolices csrstatement archive updates on achievement against targets Expansions Details of properties under development Expansionshome and acquisition requirements TradeLink Enabling communication, promotion Customerhome and trade throughout the Workspace customer community FYI Quarterly customer newsletter Changing Environments Book tracking history of a selection of Workspace properties Dynamic Environments Book describing the activities of a of range Workspace SME customers Recyclopedia Guide to recycling of business waste Beginners Guide to Finding the Right Business Space Self-help guide to finding accommodation for SMEs My Life, My Work, My Space Book documenting experiences of our customers in their own words Property Information Particulars for each Workspace Propertysearchhome property including description, photos, virtual tours and maps Customer Survey Summary 06 Presentation of the findings of the Investorhome documentsearch companypresentations annual Workspace Customer Survey 2006 Section 3 Strategy for growth Sustainability Report 2006 Report which details Workspaces approach to sustainable practice allied to The London Plan.
The Leathermarket and Kennington Park presentation Presentation outlining the potential Investorhome financialreports companypresentations for Kennington Park using the Leathermarket as an example Section 4 Financial statements Analysts Contact details for analysts who have Investorhome sharerelated analysts produced research for Workspace and Investorhome financialreports companypresentations company presentations to analysts and investors.
Risk Management Assessment of risks and Workspaces Investorshome financialreports riskmanagement approach to them Annual Accounts Archive of Workspace Annual Report Investorshome financialreports annual&quarterlyresults and Accounts Quarterly Statements Archive of Workspace Quarterly Report Investorshome financialreports annual&quarterlyresults and Accounts Section5 Shareholder reporting Corporate Governance Self assessment of compliance with Investorshome corporatepolicies corporategovernance 2003 code Board Committees Terms of Reference Approved Committee Terms of Investorshome corporatepolicies corporategovernance Reference for Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Board Delegations Corporate Governance Audit of Investorshome corporatepolicies corporategovernance Compliance and Matters Reserved for Full Board Section6 Additional information Press Releases Archive of Workspace press releases Investorshome pressoffice Published document Published on website workspacegroup.
co. uk An indicative route to the relevant web page is given in orange text Key investor publications: 1.
The Beginners Guide to finding the right business space 3.
The Report has been printed on Arctic Volume.
The pulp used to produce this paper has been sourced from carefully managed forest, according to strict environmental, social and economic standards.
All of the mills hold the ISO 14001 environmental accreditation and report in accordance to the Eco Management and Audit Scheme EMAS.
Photography by Andy Stewart Designed by Carnegie Orr Workspace Group PLC Magenta House 85 Whitechapel Road London E1 1DU T 020 7247 7614 F 020 7247 0157 W workspacegroup.
co. uk @ If you require information regarding business space in London, call 020 7247 7614 or visit workspacegroup.
