Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report 66 Workspace Group PLC reporting and Accounts 2006 Board and committee reports Board of directors The Board has established Remuneration and Audit Committees, The normal Board complement of the Company comprises four each of which consists exclusively of the three independent nonexecutive directors a Chief Executive, a Finance Director, an executive directors.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Tony Operations Director and a Property Director, whose responsibilities Hales, the Chairman of the Company and also includes the three are described on page 61 and four non-executive directors, three of other non-executive directors.
The terms of reference of these whom are independent of management under the 2003 Code and committees are available from the Company Secretary or may be free from any personal business or other relationship with the Group.
accessed through the Investor Relations area of the Groups website The fourth non-executive director is the Chairman.
The Chairmen of the Board Committees will be attending the Companys Annual General Meeting and will be As with all executive director appointments, the non-executives have available to answer questions from shareholders.
been recruited through external search advisers by the Nomination Committee, each bringing a complementary range of skills and The Board has nominated directors with specific responsibilities in experience to the Board.
Tony Hales, as Chairman, is not regarded as key business areas.
These extend to social, environmental ethical independent under the terms of the 2003 Combined Code.
He brings issues: health and safety: staff equal opportunities, remuneration, an extensive background as a former Chief Executive of a FTSE 100 training and development : customers and suppliers: community Company, non-executive experience in various companies and public involvement and investor relations.
These nominated directors report agencies as well as expertise in marketing and brand development, regularly to the Board.
and in managing a fide-centralised property portfolio.
John Bywater is the most recently appointed non-executive director June 2004 and The full Board of Directors meets on a fixed bi-monthly frequency has extensive direct property and development expertise, as well as with further ad hoc meetings as necessary.
Regular quarterly experience in the intensive management of retail centres.
Bernard meetings are held of the Audit Committee, whilst the Remuneration Cragg joined the Board in 2003 and will be considered for reappointed Committee has at least four fixed meetings a year.
The following table for a further three year term at the AGM.
He has a wide general shows the number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings management experience.
However, as a chartered accountant, again held in 2005 06 and the number attended by the respective members.
with FTSE 100 background, he was recruited as Chairman of the In addition to these formal meetings, directors meet alone and with Audit Committee as he would bring recent relevant financial advisers to conduct the business of these committees as required.
It is in the Companys policy to have at least one non-executive director who is a member of a recognised Board meetings held and attended accounting body on the Groups Audit Committee.
Finally, Chris Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Pieroni is the longest serving non-executive director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and designated senior independent From March 2005 to director.
At the time of appointment in 2000 among other skills, March 2006 he was recruited to provide both analytical property and economic Number held 6 5 1 5 background experience to the Board, as well as his experience in reviewing remuneration and rewards.
Recruitment of a replacement A Hales 6 1 non-executive director is currently underway whilst, on the retirement of Chris Pieroni, Bernard Cragg will become the designated senior H Platt 6 independent director.
M Carragher 6 J P Marples 6 All directors have written contracts and in the case of non-executive R M Taylor 6 directors these specify those corporate matters that are reserved for decision by the full Board, together with the rights of individual J Bywater 5 5 1 5 directors to seek independent professional advice and services paid B Cragg 6 5 1 5 for by the Company.
Committees of the Board share these rights of C Pieroni 6 5 1 5 access to independent advice.
All directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to indicates not a member of that Committee.
the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a Chairman and Chief Executive Board matter.
Executive directors have one-year rolling contracts of The Chairmanship of the Company is drawn from the non-executive employment whilst non-executive directors are appointed by the full directors.
There are clearly defined roles for the Chairman and Chief Board for a term not exceeding three years.
Details of the directors Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, contract terms are given on page 74. securing its effectiveness, setting its agenda, ensuring compliance with the Groups strategy and that it is regularly reviewed.
He is not All directors have induction training on joining the Board including involved in an executive capacity in any of the Groups activities.
briefings on the Companys business and visits to estates.
The effectiveness of the Chairman is reviewed by the Board annually.
Resources are provided for the continued training and development The Chairman will be considered for re-appointment for a further of all directors.
three year term at the AGM.
The non-executive directors meet at least annually without the The Chief Executive is responsible for the delivery of the strategic and executive directors and on such other occasions as deemed financial objectives of the Group.
Company Secretary Board sub-committee and executive board responsibilities All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Board retains full and effective control over the Groups activities.
It has reserved a number of matters for its exclusive consideration and approval.
These include but are not restricted to the establishment and constitution of Board Committees, identification of strategic objectives, approval of business plans, budgets and financial reports, acquisition of properties valued 5m or more and significant capital projects, provision of guarantees and treasury arrangements, stock issuance and risk management policies.
More routine day-today matters are delegated by the Board to an Executive Board comprising the executive directors.
Full details of matters reserved for the full Board are provided on the Groups website.
Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report and 67 Workspace Group PLC reporting Accounts 2006 Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Audit Committee The Nominations Committee is responsible for the selection The Audit Committee, chaired by Bernard Cragg, a chartered and appointment of all directors, and taking an overview of the accountant, meets at least quarterly, with the external auditors, general staffing and management of the business including Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director in attendance by succession planning.
At least twice a year, the external auditors attend part of the Audit Committee meeting without the presence of management All appointments in the Group are open to internal candidates as well for confidential and independent discussions and have direct access as being subject to external recruitment.
In this manner, the Group to the Chairman of the Committee at their discretion.
The Audit can, whilst offering staff the opportunity for progression, ensure that Committee reviews the annual accounts, the preliminary financial where no natural internal candidates present themselves positions results announcement and other financial statements prior to are covered by quality candidates.
These principles apply to senior submission to the Board, considering the compliance with accounting management and Board appointments also.
However, it is a key standards, and that disclosures are fair, balanced and appropriate.
objective of the Company that each director should have one or more It is pleasing to note that the Groups financial reporting was, once members of staff whose skills and abilities could make them suitable again, recognised in the BDO Stoy Hayward Property Accounts for progression over time to the Board.
Awards by the award of Bronze Standard for its 2005 Annual Report.
In addition, last years Annual Report was joint winner of the During the latter part of the year the Committee has commenced a Proshare award for the Best Annual Report and Accounts for Private search for a new non-executive director to replace Chris Pieroni who, Investors, outside the FTSE 100. having served six years retires this year.
In line with company policy, assistance is being obtained from an executive search agency The Committee also considers the requirement for, scope and extent specialising in this field.
Candidates will be shortlisted and of an internal audit programme.
It reviews the effectiveness of the interviewed by the Nominations Committee and the Chief Executive.
external audit and makes recommendations to the Board on the Candidates for final selection will meet with other members of the appointment and remuneration of the auditors.
The Audit Committee Board and be introduced to the Groups business before a final considers all papers presented to the Board on risk assessment and selection and appointment is made.
internal check and control and receives the report of the newly formed Risk Committee of senior managers.
The Chairman of the The Committee reviewed the proposed re-appointment of Audit Committee reports to the Board on matters discussed at Audit Messrs Tony Hales and Bernard Cragg and recommended their Committee meetings.
The Groups auditors report to the Committee re-appointment to the Board.
In addition, during the year the annually confirming the independence of all staff concerned with the Committee looked at succession, leadership and the continuing audit engagement.
During the year the Audit Committee also organisation and development of the business.
This showed that the reviewed its own effectiveness and reported to the Board on that Group is resilient in the case of any single executive departure with detailed review which was favourable.
adequate short-term cover in all positions.
Engagement of the Groups auditors on non-audit activities is not specifically excluded.
However, such work is ordinarily only awarded following competitive tender and careful analysis by the Audit Committee of the potential for conflict arising as a result of the A J Hales appointment.
The Board considers that in certain circumstances, for Chairman of the Nominations Committee example where accountants reports are required in the context of a 12 June 2006 circular to shareholders, the Groups auditors may be better qualified to issue such a report than another third party.
In the current year the Groups auditors have been engaged to provide advice on the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Audit Committee reviews the level of audit fees for their adequacy and the magnitude of other fees relative to the audit fee.
The provisions of the Combined Code in respect of internal controls require that directors review all controls including operational, compliance and risk management as well as financial controls.
The directors have performed this review on a regular basis during the year.
This process is monitored by the Audit Committee.
The Board has considered the requirements of the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules and implemented a programme for the identification, reporting and management of risks as advised by the Combined Code.
The internal control and check system is designed to identify and manage risks, rather than eliminate them and as such it can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has an established framework of controls which, inter alia, include: a Financial reporting There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual business plan approved by the Board.
Operating results and cash flows are reported monthly and compared with budget.
Forecasts are prepared regularly throughout the year.
The Company reports to shareholders on a quarterly basis.
In addition to these controls the Group operates a range of operational reporting systems to monitor its business on a day-to-day basis, and has a comprehensive monthly Key Performance Indicator KPI report covering key business issues.
Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report 68 Workspace Group PLC reporting and Accounts 2006 b Investment appraisal Report of the Remuneration Committee The Company has clearly-defined guidelines for capital The Board is advised in this area by a Remuneration Committee expenditure.
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal comprised wholly of independent non-executive directors of the and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence Company Chris Pieroni Committee Chairman : John Bywater and requirements where investment or development properties are Bernard Cragg.
The Chairman of the Company Tony Hales and Chief being acquired.
Post-investment appraisals are performed for major Executive Harry Platt are invited as appropriate to attend meetings investments both acquisitions and major works on owned property.
of the Committee but play no part in discussions concerning their own packages.
c Internal control The Committee has once again during the year considered carefully The Committee is required annually to consider and review all the Groups internal control and check procedures.
The Group does aspects of the executive directors employment, performance and not have an internal audit function.
Since the Group invests in remuneration and the Companys policies on these matters and to investment properties let on fixed terms, risks associated with its make recommendations to the full Board.
The Committee also assets and revenues are not high.
The Board considers that the examines and discusses with executive directors how policies here control systems operated should reduce the risk of error, fraud or are aligned with human resources policies in the Company as a failure to a sufficiently low level that does not warrant the cost of an whole, and particularly those for senior management outside the internal audit function.
The Board continues to monitor the Groups Board.
Responsibility in these areas rests with the executive activities to ensure the continued validity of this judgement.
directors and a separate report on this is given on page 16.
The Committee does not make recommendations on the d Whistle blowing remuneration of non-executive directors, which is a matter The Group has established and communicated a mechanism for reserved solely for the full Board.
Staff wishing to express concerns over any matter which they feel unable to discuss with their line management should The Remuneration Committee consults with its human resources raise these with the Chief Executive, or where the matter concerns an adviser, John Miller, about its proposals where appropriate.
All calls will be reported to the Independent professional advice is taken from time to time from Audit Committee.
Over the year no issues have been raised.
Investment Property Databank IPD, KPMG, Norton Rose and other consultants appointed by the Committee in order to carry out its e Risk management duties.
The Group subscribes to the Monks Partnership an advisory The Board regularly reviews the Groups activities with a view to service of  LLP for the provision of salary identifying all sources of risk.
In addition, during the year, a Risk survey information on senior executives.
The remuneration policy for Committee has been established comprising a Board Director, and the Board is considered both in the wider context of the market and four senior staff.
This Committee reviews all risks facing the Group, in terms of the remuneration structure operated within the Group.
prioritises them every six months, and ensures processes are in Mr Miller is retained by the Company to provide advice on human place to review each issue raised.
It reports half-yearly to the Audit resources matters on a company-wide basis.
A more detailed assessment of risk management is the performance of the Groups property portfolio for more than ten on page 63 with detailed risk assessments available on the years.
Norton Rose, as the Groups legal adviser, provides services Groups website.
both in the context of transactions and wider commercial matters.
KPMG and Monks Partnership provide no other service to the Group.
All consultant advisers are considered by the Committee to be independent.
Bernard Cragg Chairman of the Audit Committee 12 June 2006 C J Pieroni Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 12 June 2006
