Section 4 Financial Annual Report 36 Workspace Group PLC statements and Accounts 2006 Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these Investment property is measured initially at cost, including related financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been transaction costs.
After initial recognition investment property is held consistently applied to all years presented, as explained below, with at fair value based on a valuation by a professional external valuer at the exception of IFRS5 Non-current assets held for sale and each reporting date.
discontinued operations, which has been applied prospectively from 1 April 2005.
Changes in fair value of investment property at the reporting date are recorded in the income statement.
Basis of preparation Properties are treated as acquired at the point the Group assumes These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the significant risks and returns of ownership and are treated as International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC disposed when these are transferred outside the Group.
interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting Existing investment property which undergoes redevelopment for under IFRS.
continued future use as investment property remains in investment property.
Property that is being constructed or developed for future The financial statements have been prepared under the historical use as investment property, but has not previously been classified cost convention as modified by the revaluation of investment as such, is classified as property, plant and equipment and initially properties, fair value of derivative financial instruments and recognised at cost until construction or development is complete, convertible loan stock.
at which time it is reclassified as investment property at fair value.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally Subsequent expenditure is charged to the assets carrying amount accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities the expenditure will flow to the Group and the cost of each item can at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenues and be reliably measured.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are charged to the income statement during the period in which they based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or are incurred.
actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
In the case of existing investment properties undergoing Key judgements redevelopment capitalised interest on the redevelopment expenditure Key judgements include the estimation of fair values of investment is added to the assets carrying amount.
Borrowing costs capitalised properties and derivative financial instruments, the assessment of are calculated by reference to the actual interest rate payable on useful economic lives and residual values of property, plant and borrowings, or if financed out of general borrowings by reference to equipment and estimates of trade receivables impairment provisions.
the average rate payable on funding the assets employed by the Group and applied to the direct expenditure on the property Adoption of IFRS undergoing redevelopment.
Interest capitalised is from the date of The Group is required to establish its IFRS accounting policies for commencement of the re-development activity until the date when the year ended 31 March 2006 and to apply these retrospectively to substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the asset for its determine its balance sheet at the date of transition to IFRS, intended use are complete.
1 April 2004, and comparative financial information for the year ended 31 March 2005.
The comparative financial figures have therefore been Assets held for sale amended as required in accordance with the relevant requirements Properties and land held for sale are included in the balance sheet and disclosures relating to the transition to IFRS.
Advantage has been at fair value and presented on the balance sheet as investment taken of certain exemptions allowed by IFRS 1 First Time Adoption properties held for sale.
of IFRS as follows: Property plant and equipment Share based payment transactions to not apply IFRS 2 Share All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less Based Payment to equity instruments granted before 7 November depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly 2002 and cash settled share base payment liabilities settled prior attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Fair value at deemed cost to take fair value as the deemed cost Subsequent expenditure is charged to the assets carrying amount of owner occupied property at the date of transition.
or recognised as a separate asset only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Basis of consolidation Group and the cost of each item can be reliably measured.
All other The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings up to 31 March during the period in which they are incurred.
In the case of properties 2006.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to undergoing construction or development, capitalised interest on the govern the financial and operating policies.
The financial statements development expenditure is added to the assets carrying amount.
of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences to the date control ceases.
Depreciation is provided using the straight line method to allocate the cost less estimated residual value over the assets estimated useful Inter company transactions, balances and unrealised gains from lives as follows: intra group transactions are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment Freehold land not depreciated of the asset transferred.
Buildings 50 years Motor vehicles 4 years Investment properties Equipment and fixtures 4 years Investment properties are those properties owned or leased under a finance lease by the Group that are held to earn rental income or for The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and capital appreciation or both and are not occupied by the Company or adjusted, if appropriate, at least at each financial year end.
An assets subsidiaries of the Group.
carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if its carrying amount is greater than its estimated Land or buildings held under operating leases are classified and recoverable amount.
accounted for as investment properties where the rest of the definition of investment property is met.
The operating lease is accounted for as if it were a finance lease.
Section 4 Financial Annual Report and 37 Workspace Group PLC statements Accounts 2006 Intangibles Borrowings Acquired computer software licenses and external costs of Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction implementing or developing computer software programmes are costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised capitalised.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful cost, any difference between the initial amount net of transaction lives of 4 years on a straight line basis.
Intangibles are stated at costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income historical cost.
statement over the period of the borrowings, using the effective interest method, except for interest capitalised on redevelopments.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Leases A group company as a lessee Compound financial instruments i Operating leases leases in which substantially all the risks and At the date of issue of compound financial instruments, the fair value rewards of ownership are retained by another party, the lessor, are of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market classified as operating leases.
Payments, including prepayments, interest rate for similar non-compound debt.
The difference between made under operating leases are charged to the income statement the proceeds of issue and the fair value of the liability is included in on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
The interest payable and amortisation of the carrying value of ii Finance leases leases of assets where the Group has the liability component are recognised as interest expense so as to substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as maintain a constant rate of interest on the carrying value.
Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the net present value of the minimum lease Derivative financial instruments payments.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance The Group enters into derivative transactions such as interest rate charges, are included in current and non-current borrowings.
collars in order to manage its interest risk.
Derivatives are recorded Each lease payment is allocated between liability and finance charges at fair value calculated on valuation techniques based on market so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
prices and estimated cash flows.
As the Group does not apply hedge The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income accounting to the interest rate collars, any changes in value are statement.
The investment properties acquired under finance leases recognised in the income statement.
are subsequently carried at fair value.
Share capital A group company as lessor Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly i Operating leases properties leased out under operating leases attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a are included in investment property in the balance sheet.
Rental deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
income from operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
When the Group provides Investment in own shares incentives to its customers the cost of the incentives are recognised The Group operates an Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT.
over the lease term on a straight line basis as a reduction of When the Group purchases Company shares, the consideration paid rental income.
is deducted from shareholders equity as Investment in Own Shares until the shares are re-issued, cancelled or disposed of.
Where ii Finance leases when assets are leased out under a finance lease, shares are re-issued or disposed of any consideration due is included the present value of the minimum lease payments is recognised as a in shareholders equity as Investment in Own Shares.
The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the receivable represents unearned finance income.
Provisions Lease income is recognised over the term of the lease using the net Provisions are recognised when the Group has a current obligation investment method before tax, which reflects a constant periodic rate arising from a past event and it is probable that the Group will be of return.
Where the buildings element of a property lease is required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the classified as a finance lease, the land element is treated as an directors best estimate of the present value of the expenditure operating lease.
required to settle that obligation at the balance sheet date.
Trade and other receivables Revenue recognition Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and Revenue comprises rental income, service charges and other sums subsequently measured at cost less provision for impairment where receivable from tenants of the Groups investment properties.
Other it is established there is objective evidence that the Group will not be sums comprise insurance charges, supplies of utilities, premia able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the associated with surrender of tenancies, commissions, fees and other receivable.
The amount of the provision is the difference between sundry income.
the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
The provision is recorded in the income statement.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
When the Trade and other payables Group provides lease incentives to its tenants the cost of incentives Trade and other payables are stated at cost.
are recognised over the lease term, on a straight line basis, as a reduction to income.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call Service charge and other sums receivable from tenants are with banks and other short term highly liquid investments with recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the relevant original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are service or transactions at the reporting date.
included within cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
Section 4 Financial Annual Report 38 Workspace Group PLC statements and Accounts 2006 Rental income from property let out under a finance lease is Dividend distribution accounted for by allocating each lease payment between receivable Final dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are and finance income so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the balance outstanding.
The interest element of the finance income is period in which the dividends are approved, while interim dividends credited to the income statement over the lease period so as to are recognised when paid.
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the receivable for each period.
Contingent rents, being those lease New Standards payments that are not fixed at the inception of the lease, for example IFRS 6 and 7 and IFRIC 4, 5, 6 and 7 have been adopted by the increases arising on rent reviews, are recorded as income in the European Union, but are not effective for the year ended 31 March periods in which they are earned.
It is believed that they will not have a material impact on the financial statements on initial application.
Income for the sale of assets is recognised when the significant risks and returns have been transferred to the buyer.
In the case of sales of properties this is generally taken on completion.
Where any aspect of consideration is conditional then the revenue associated with that conditional item is deferred.
Direct costs Minimum lease payments payable under head leases categorised as finance leases are allocated between liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement.
Contingent rents, being those lease payments that are not fixed at the inception of the lease, for example increases arising on rent reviews, are recorded as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Share based payment Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option schemes.
The fair value of the options granted is recognised over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured by the use of Black-Scholes and Monte-Carlo option pricing models.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Company has established an ESOT to satisfy part of its obligation to provide shares when employees exercise their options.
The Company provides funding to the ESOT to purchase these shares.
Pensions The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
Contributions are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
Income tax Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current income tax is tax payable on the taxable income for the year and any prior year adjustment and is calculated using tax rates that have been substantively enacted by the balance sheet data.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates that have been substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax is realised or the deferred tax liability settled.
Deferred tax is provided in full on the difference between the original cost of investment properties and their carrying amounts at the reporting date without taking into account deductions and allowances which would apply if the assets concerned were disposed of.
No provision is made for temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit or relating to investments in subsidiaries where it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
