STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES 39 Directors' responsibilities 1 The parent company financial statements are The directors are responsible for preparing required by law to give a true and fair view of the the Annual Report and the group and parent state of affairs of the parent company.
company financial statements in accordance In preparing each of the group and parent with applicable law and regulations.
company financial statements, the directors are required to: Company law requires the directors to prepare select suitable accounting policies and then group and parent company financial statements apply them consistently: for each financial year.
Under that law they are make judgments and estimates that are required to prepare the group financial reasonable and prudent: statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for the group financial statements, state by the EU and applicable law and have elected whether they have been prepared in to prepare the parent company financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: statements in accordance with UK Accounting for the parent company financial statements, Standards and applicable law UK Generally state whether applicable UK Accounting Accepted Accounting Practice.
Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained The group financial statements are required by in the parent company financial statements: and law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present prepare the financial statements on the going fairly the financial position and the performance concern basis unless it is inappropriate to of the group: the Companies Act 1985 provides presume that the group and the parent in relation to such financial statements that company will continue in business.
references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2006 REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2006 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES 40 The directors are responsible for keeping proper The directors are responsible for the accounting records that disclose with maintenance and integrity of the corporate and reasonable accuracy at any time the financial financial information included on the company's position of the parent company and enable them website.
Legislation in the UK governing the to ensure that its financial statements comply preparation and dissemination of financial with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general statements may differ from legislation in responsibility for taking such steps as are other jurisdictions.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Opposite 1 directors are also responsible for preparing Whitelands Park, a Directors' Report, Directors' Remuneration near Putney, London Report and Corporate Governance Statement This Page that comply with that law and those regulations.
2 Bolnore Village, Haywards Heath, West Sussex 2
