0346 DC AR 2006 p38-67 7 6 06 8:32 am Page 42 42 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Group has implemented the following standards earlier Dairy Crest Group plc has been required to adopt International than required and restated the prior year comparatives in line Financial Reporting Standards IFRS with effect from 1 April with them: 2005.
The results for the year ended 31 March 2006 represent the Groups first Annual Report and Accounts prepared in IAS 19: Amendment EU adopted Actuarial Gains and accordance with IFRS.
Previously the Group reported under Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures.
UK generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP.
IFRS 5: Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Detailed UK GAAP to IFRS reconciliations of equity for the date Operations.
of transition, 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 and of the profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 are shown in Note 35 to the There was no impact on the Group on the adoption of IFRS 5. accounts on page 70.
The impact on the Group on the adoption of IAS 19 is to recognise any liability in respect of defined benefit pension Under the exemption available in IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of schemes in the consolidated balance sheet and any actuarial IFRS the Group has not restated its financial information for the gain or loss in the consolidated statement of recognised income year ended 31 March 2005 for the effect of IAS 32, Financial and expense.
Further details are given below in the accounting Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation or IAS 39, Financial policy dealing with retirement benefit obligations.
This comparative financial information has been prepared in accordance with UK During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following GAAP.
Additional financial instruments of 0.3 million net of standards and interpretations with an effective date after the deferred tax have been recognised on the balance sheet from date of these accounts: 1 April 2005 as reported in the Groups IFRS reconciliations as published on 7 November 2005 and available on the Groups International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS website.
Had IAS 32 and IAS 39 been applied from 1 April IFRS 4: Insurance Contracts Amendment to IAS 39 and 2004, all derivative instruments would have been brought onto IFRS 4 1 January 2006. the balance sheet at fair value.
IFRS 6: Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Assets IFRS 6: Amendment relating to IFRS 6.
The consolidated and Company financial statements are IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007. presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest IAS 1: Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements: 0.1 million million except where otherwise indicated.
IAS 39: Fair Value Option 1 January 2006.
The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc IAS 39: Cash Flow Hedge Accounting 1 January 2006. have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the IAS 39: Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Financial European Union EU.
The Company financial statements have Guarantee Contracts 1 January 2006. been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Companies Act 1985.
The Company has taken advantage of Committee IFRIC the exemption provided under section 230 of the Companies IFRIC 4: Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease Act 1985 not to publish its individual income statement and effective 1 January 2006. related notes.
IFRIC 5: Rights to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant effective 1 January 2006. risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of IFRIC 6: Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment measurement of the impairment of goodwill and measurement effective 1 December 2005. of defined benefit obligations.
The Group determines whether IFRIC 7: Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an Financial Reporting in Hyper Inflationary Economies estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to effective 1 March 2006. which goodwill is allocated.
This requires estimation of future IFRIC 8: Scope of IFRS 2 effective 1 May 2006. cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
IFRIC 9: Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives Measurement of defined benefit obligations requires estimation effective 1 June 2006. of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return on plan assets and the choice of a Upon adoption of IFRS 7 the Group will need to disclose the suitable discount rate.
fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail although there will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
Upon adoption of IFRS 4: Insurance Contracts Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 the Company will be 0346 DC AR 2006 p38-67 7 6 06 8:32 am Page 43 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 43 required to record the fair value of certain financial guarantees exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising from the issued.
Apart from these the directors do not anticipate that retranslation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries at year the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have end exchange rates, less exchange differences on borrowings, a material impact on the Groups or Companys accounts in the which finance or provide a hedge against those undertakings period of initial application.
are taken to a separate component of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions are met.
Exchange differences Consolidation relating to foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of against a net investment in a foreign entity remain in equity until Dairy Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are each year using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges balances and transactions, including unrealised profits and and credits attributable to exchange differences on those losses arising from intra-group transactions, have been borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
In accordance with transitional provisions of IFRS 1 First-time Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from Adoption of IFRS, the cumulative translation reserve by entity the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Minority has been set to nil at the date of transition to IFRS.
interests represent the 20% interests in Wexford Creamery Limited and Haverfordwest Cheese Limited not held by Property, plant and equipment the Group.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the Interest in joint ventures purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the The Groups investment in joint ventures are accounted for under asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be the equity method of accounting.
Joint ventures are entities of capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
which the Group has joint control under contractual agreement Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual and are not subsidiaries.
The reporting date of the major joint value of property, plant and equipment, excluding freehold land, venture, Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited, is not identical to the Group on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the although financial statements are prepared to 31 March each assets as follows: year.
The Company and joint ventures both use consistent accounting policies.
The investment in joint ventures is carried Freehold buildings: 25 years in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in Leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, the Groups share of net assets of the joint ventures, less any the period of the lease impairment in value and any distributions received.
The income Office equipment: 4 to 6 years statement reflects the share of the results of the joint ventures.
Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years Where there has been a change recognised directly in the joint Vehicles: 4 to 10 years ventures equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the consolidated The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed statement of recognised income and expense.
for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If the carrying Foreign currency translation value exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount plc and its United Kingdom subsidiaries is Pound Sterling.
of plant and equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs The functional currency of Wexford Creamery Limited, a to sell or value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated subsidiary company incorporated in Ireland, is the Euro.
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cashare translated into Sterling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses differences on monetary items are taken to the income are charged to the consolidated income statement.
statement, except where deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results on derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at average income statement in the year that it is derecognised.
rates of exchange for the year being an approximation of actual 0346 DC AR 2006 p38-67 7 6 06 8:32 am Page 44 44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 Accounting policies continued Borrowing costs an impairment review of goodwill should be conducted in Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred accordance with IAS 36 at the date of transition and at the in accordance with IAS 23: Borrowing Costs.
Dairy Crest has performed this review and no adjustment was required.
Investments The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at Intangible assets cost being the fair value of consideration paid.
Income is Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business recognised from these investments only in relation to distributions are capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair received from post-acquisition profits.
Distributions received in value can be measured reliably on initial recognition and the excess of post-acquisition profits are deducted from the cost future expected economic benefits flow to the Group.
initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated Goodwill impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
Currently, all the Groups transition to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date intangible assets have finite useful lives and are amortised over and is not subsequently amortised.
Goodwill on acquisition is three to five years.
Intangibles with a finite life are amortised to initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the the consolidated income statement using a methodology that business combination over the Groups acquirers interest in matches managements estimate of how the benefit of the the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and assets will be recovered.
Useful lives are also examined on an contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Intangible assets acquired separately from business value may be impaired.
All goodwill was tested for impairment at combinations include software development expenditure.
the time of transition to IFRS and no impairment was identified.
Software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Software is amortised over five years.
Intangible assets that are As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually either the cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units individually or at the cash-generating unit level or more expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount the carrying value may be impaired.
of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than Research and development the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where Expenditure on research is written off as incurred.
Development goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount as required by IAS 38: Intangible Assets.
of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is Recoverable amount of non-current assets measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal The Groups cash-generating units, for the purpose of estimate of recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount considering goodwill, are Dairies, Spreads, Speciality Cheese of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is and Cheese excluding Speciality Cheese.
These represent the considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for management amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or purposes and are no larger than the segments being Dairies cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value and Foods.
in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been those from other assets or groups of assets.
charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against reserves even if the related investment becomes Inventories impaired or the business sold.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the on a first-in first-out basis, direct labour and a proportion of transition date of 1 April 2004.
Acquisitions prior to this date are manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity recorded under previous accounting rules.
IFRS 1 requires that incurred in bringing each product to its present location and 0346 DC AR 2006 p38-67 7 6 06 8:32 am Page 45 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 45 condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs of are recognised in full and are charged or credited to the completion and selling costs.
consolidated statement of recognised income and expense in the period in which they arise.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at Share based payments original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable Equity-based performance payments amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when The Group has issued equity-settled share based payments collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts for which the Group receives services from employees in are written off when identified.
consideration for the equity instrument.
Equity-settled share based payments are measured at fair value at the grant date Cash and cash equivalents by an external valuer using a Monte Carlo option-pricing model.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand The costs of equity-settled transactions are recognised on a and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The cumulative months or less.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow expense recognised for equity settled transactions at each statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash reporting date until vesting reflects the expired vesting period equivalents as defined above, net of bank overdrafts.
and the number of awards that, in the opinion of the directors, will eventually vest after adjusting for the expected achievement Interest bearing loans of non-market performance conditions.
The amount charged to All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value the consolidated income statement is credited to reserves.
of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional on market the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by conditions, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or the market conditions are satisfied.
Gains and losses are recognised in net profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase the Groups ordinary shares at 80% of the fair value at the grant Net debt date Sharesave Scheme.
The Group records an expense, The Group defines net debt as cash and cash equivalents plus based on the estimate of the 20% discount related to the interest bearing loans and finance leases.
The calculation of net shares expected to vest on a straight-line basis over the vesting debt excludes the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
period using a Black Scholes option pricing model.
Retirement benefit obligations Employees Share Ownership Plan ESOP The liability in respect of defined benefit schemes is the present The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees value of the relevant defined benefit obligation at the balance Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive sheet date less the fair value of plan assets and an adjustment Share Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in for past service costs not yet recognised.
The independent arriving at shareholders equity.
Consideration received from the actuaries complete a full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest sale of such shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or Group pension fund and the Wexford Creamery plan triennially.
loss recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The obligation is updated annually for financial reporting purposes by the actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to The present value of the obligation is determined by the apply IFRS 2 share based payments only to awards made after estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high 7 November 2002. quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related liability.
Leased assets Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the The current service costs are recognised in operating costs in Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to the consolidated income statement.
Past service costs are ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception included in operating costs where the benefits have vested, of the lease at fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The net present vesting period.
The expected return on assets of funded defined value of future lease rentals is included as a liability on the benefit schemes and the interest on pension scheme liabilities balance sheet.
The interest element of lease rentals is charged comprise the finance element of the pension cost and the to the consolidated income statement in the year.
Leases difference between these amounts are included in other finance where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits income or costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
0346 DC AR 2006 p38-67 7 6 06 8:32 am Page 46 46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 Accounting policies continued Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated Revenue with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the delivery.
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable goods net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after that the temporary differences will not reverse in the eliminating sales within the Group.
Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible receive payment is established.
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable Other income profit will be available against which the deductible temporary Other income comprises the profit on disposal of closed sites differences, the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused and household depots.
tax losses can be utilised except: Exceptional items where the deferred income tax asset relating to the Certain items are recorded separately in the consolidated deductible temporary difference arises from the initial income statement as exceptional.
Only items of a material, recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that one-off nature, which result from a restructuring of the business is not a business combination and, at the time of the or some other event are disclosed in this manner in order to transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor give a better understanding of the underlying operational taxable profit or loss: and performance of the Group.
The profits arising on disposal of in respect of deductible temporary differences associated closed sites, other than as a result of depot rationalisation, are with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests reported within operating exceptional items.
Exceptional items in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to are not excluded from the basic earnings per share calculation.
the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will Government and other grants be available against which the temporary differences can Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value be utilised.
where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be complied with.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is income over the periods necessary to match the grant on a no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be Where the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is credited to utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured a deferred income account and is released to the consolidated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates asset in equal annual instalments.
and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items Income tax recognised directly in equity are recognised in equity and Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount not in the income statement.
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or Derivative instruments substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations.
the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting fair value and subsequently re-measured to fair value for the purposes, except as indicated below.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by temporary differences except: reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial contracts is determined by reference to market values for recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset similar instruments.
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination 0346 DC AR 2006 p38-67 7 6 06 8:32 am Page 47 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 47 For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, or a firm commitment in relation to foreign exchange exposure.
The Group has not entered into any fair value hedges during the year.
Cash flow hedges In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When the hedged firm commitment in relation to foreign exchange exposure or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects the net profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the consolidated income statement for the year.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity under a cash flow hedge is kept in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the consolidated income statement for the year.
Previously, under UK GAAP, the accounting policy for financial instruments was as follows: Interest rate swaps were not revalued to fair value or shown in the Groups balance sheet at year end.
Interest rate differentials were recognised by accruing the net interest payable.
Gains and losses on forward currency contracts were offset against the foreign exchange gains and losses on the related financial assets and liabilities, or where the instrument is used to hedge a committed or probable future transaction, were deferred until the transaction occurred.
