0346 DC AR 2006 p68-85 8 6 06 7:04 pm Page 80 80 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 Notice of Tenth Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to consult immediately your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser duly authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom or, if you reside elsewhere, another appropriately authorised financial adviser.
If you have already sold or otherwise transferred all of your Dairy Crest Group plc shares, please send this document as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Tenth Annual exchange control laws and regulations, provided that such General Meeting of Dairy Crest Group plc the Company schemes must operate within the limits on individual and overall will be held at the Chartered Accountants Hall, Moorgate participation in the Executive Scheme.
Place, London EC2P 2BJ on Thursday 20 July 2006 at 11.00am for the following purposes: 9.
That the Dairy Crest 2006 Long Term Incentive Share Plan LTISP, the main features of which are summarised in the Ordinary business Explanatory Notes to the Notice of AGM be and is hereby 1.
To receive and adopt the Companys annual accounts for approved and the directors be and are hereby authorised to the year ended 31 March 2006, together with the directors establish further schemes for the benefit of employees outside report and auditors report on those accounts.
the United Kingdom based on the LTISP, but modified to the extent necessary or desirable to take account of non-United 2.
To approve the Directors remuneration report for the year Kingdom tax, securities and exchange control laws and ended 31 March 2006. regulations, provided that such schemes must operate within the limits on individual and overall participation in the LTISP.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 of 15.2 pence per share.
That Rule 3 3 b of the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme, which was adopted by the Company on 4.
To re-elect Mr M Allen as a director of the Company.
30 July 1996, be and is hereby amended to replace the existing words within the period of 10 ten years beginning with the 5.
To re-elect Mr H Mann as a director of the Company.
Flotation Date with the words within the period of 20 years beginning with the Flotation Date.
To re-elect Mr P Thornton as a director of the Company.
That the authority conferred on the directors by article 7.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors, to hold 4 B of the Companys articles of association to exercise all office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before meaning of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act the members, and to authorise the directors to determine be renewed for the period from the date of the passing of this their remuneration.
resolution until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and for that period the section 80 Special business amount is 10,433,000.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed, in the case of resolutions 8, 9, 10 and Special resolutions 11, as ordinary resolutions and, in the case of resolutions 12 12.
That, pursuant to article 41 of the Companys articles of and 13, as special resolutions: association, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Section 166 of the Act to make Ordinary resolutions market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the 8.
That the Dairy Crest 2006 Executive Share Option Scheme Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Executive Scheme, the main features of which are Company ordinary shares provided that: summarised in the Explanatory Notes to the Notice of AGM be and is hereby approved and the directors be and are hereby the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised authorised to establish further schemes for the benefit of to be acquired is 12,519,077 employees outside the United Kingdom based on the Executive Scheme, but modified to the extent necessary or desirable to the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary take account of non-United Kingdom tax, securities and share is 25 pence exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes 0346 DC AR 2006 p68-85 8 6 06 4:43 pm Page 81 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 81 the maximum price exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes which may be paid for any such ordinary share shall be not more than 5% above the average of the middle market values for an ordinary share in the Company as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before such time and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such time.
That the power conferred on the directors by article 4 C of the Companys articles of association to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act for cash be renewed for the period from the date of the passing of this resolution until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and for that period the section 89 amount is 1,564,885.
By order of the Board R J Newton, Secretary 9 June 2006 Registered Office: Claygate House, Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN 0346 DC AR 2006 p68-85 8 6 06 4:48 pm Page 82 82 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 Explanatory notes Notes 4.
Individuals will be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting only if 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is also entitled their own name appears on the share register or, where the shares are to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead held in a different trading or registration name, on production of written of him her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
evidence of their authority to act as that shareholders representative.
A partnership the name of which is entered in the register of members 2.
You may use the form of proxy enclosed with this Notice to appoint a may, by any two persons purporting to be partners in the partnership, proxy to attend the meeting on your behalf.
To be effective, the form of authorise a person to act as its representative at the meeting.
proxy and any authority under which it is executed or a certified copy of A company or other institution may by prior written authorisation confirm such authority must reach the offices of the Companys registrar, Lloyds the appointment of a corporate representative to attend the meeting on TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6LA not its behalf.
Such a representative shall be entitled to exercise the same less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Completion rights as an individual member in respect of the shares to which the and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from authorisation relates.
Any company or partnership appointing a attending and voting in person at the meeting.
representative to attend the meeting is requested to notify the Companys registrar of such appointment in writing not less than CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the 5.
Only individual shareholders whose names appear on the register, CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored their proxies or representatives duly authorised in the above manner will members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting be permitted to attend and vote at the meeting.
service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy this Notice until 20 July 2006, and at the Chartered Accountants Hall, Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Moorgate Place, London EC2P 2BJ from 10:45 am on 20 July 2006 CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required until the conclusion of the Meeting: for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an i all directors service contracts other than contracts expiring or amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy determinable within one year by the Company without payment must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the of compensation : and issuers agent Lloyds TSB Registrars ID 7RA01 by the time stated above for the receipt of forms of proxy.
For this purpose, the time of ii the register of interests of directors and their families in shares receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp of the Company.
applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST Resolution 1 in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of The directors of the Company have a duty to present to shareholders in instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be general meeting the annual accounts, together with the directors report communicated to the appointee through other means.
and the report of the auditors.
The auditors report can be found on pages 76 to 77.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make Resolution 2 available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
As required by the Act, the Board has presented its Directors Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation remuneration report to shareholders in the Annual Report, which may to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the be found on pages 27 to 34.
This report gives details of the directors CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2006 and sets out the CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a Companys overall policy on directors remuneration.
voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure As also required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any 2002, the Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have audited the particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where relevant parts of the Directors remuneration report and their report may applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are be found on pages 76 to 77. referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Board considers that appropriate executive remuneration plays a vital part in helping to achieve the Companys overall objectives.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the In compliance with the Act, shareholders are invited to approve the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertified Securities Directors remuneration report.
In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities The directors recommend that a final dividend of 15.2 pence per share Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those shareholders be paid on 9 August 2006 to shareholders on the register on 7 July appearing in the register of members as at 6.00pm on Tuesday 18 July 2006.
Payment of the final dividend will bring the total dividend for the 2006 the specified time shall be entitled to attend and vote at the year ended 31 March 2006 to 21.5 pence per share.
meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the register of members after the specified time Resolutions 4, 5 and 6 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend The articles of association specify that up to one third of the directors or vote at the meeting.
must retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and that each 0346 DC AR 2006 p68-85 8 6 06 7:14 pm Page 83 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 83 director must retire not later than the third AGM following their last Companys employee share schemes may not exceed 10% of the election or re-election.
This year Mr M Allen, Mr H Mann and Mr P Companys issued Share capital from time to time: Thornton, who were elected at the AGM 2003, will retire by rotation and seek re-election.
Details of their biographies can be found on page 22. ii the number of Shares that may be issued on the exercise of options or awards granted in any period of ten years under all the Resolution 7 Companys executive share schemes may not exceed 5% of the This is a standard resolution proposing the re-appointment of Companys issued Share capital from time to time: and Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors.
iii the total acquisition price for Shares on the exercise of options Resolutions 8, 9 and 10 held by any participant under Part A of the Executive Scheme may Set out below is a summary of the rules of the Dairy Crest 2006 not exceed the amount permitted under Schedule 4 to ITEPA Executive Share Option Scheme the Executive Scheme and a currently 30,000. summary of the rules of the Dairy Crest 2006 Long Term Incentive Share Plan the LTISP proposed to be adopted by Dairy Crest.
The rules of Shares may be transferred out of treasury to satisfy awards under the Executive Scheme and the LTISP are available for inspection during the Executive Scheme, but any Shares so transferred will be treated normal business hours at the offices of Clifford Chance LLP at 10 Upper as being issued for the purposes of the limits in i and ii above.
Bank Street, London E14 5JJ from the date of this Notice up to and The Executive Scheme may also operate in conjunction with Shares including the close of the Annual General Meeting and will also be purchased in the market.
available for inspection at the Chartered Accountants Hall, Moorgate Place, London EC2P 2BJ at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Performance condition Meeting.
An option granted under Part A of the Executive Scheme will normally be exercisable between three years and ten years after the date of The Executive Scheme grant, provided that a performance condition set by the Remuneration The Executive Scheme is divided into two parts: an approved part Committee has been satisfied.
Although there is no present intention to Part A and an unapproved part Part B.
Part A, for which the grant options under the Executive Scheme, as and when any options Company is seeking HM Revenue and Customs HMRC approval are granted it is intended that the relevant performance target will be under the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 ITEPA, based on the Companys cumulative economic profit over a three-year will be used to grant options which are eligible to benefit from favourable period, beginning with the financial year in which options are granted, UK tax treatment.
Part B is not designed for HMRC approval and will be i. e. on the same basis as the economic profit target applying in the used for the grant of options in excess of the HMRC limits.
The intention is that there will, therefore, be full Remuneration Committee does not intend to grant any options under vesting for economic profit at or above the threshold level.
the Executive Scheme for the time being, except in exceptional circumstances e. g. for recruitment purposes.
Cessation of employment A participant who leaves Dairy Crests service before exercising their Approved part of the Executive Scheme Part A options will normally forfeit any option which they would otherwise have Part A of the Executive Scheme has been designed for approval by been entitled to exercise.
If the participants service with Dairy Crest HMRC under Schedule 4 to ITEPA.
ceases through injury, disability, redundancy, retirement by agreement with Dairy Crest, the employing company or business being sold out Eligibility of the group, or in exceptional circumstances determined by the Any full-time Director working a minimum of 25 hours per week or any Remuneration Committee, the option may be exercised three years employee of a participating subsidiary of the Company other than after grant but only to the extent that the performance condition has anyone who is ineligible to participate due to HMRC rules, may be been met over the performance period.
However, the number of granted an option under Part A of the Executive Scheme.
Shares in respect of which the option may be exercised will unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise be reduced on a Grant of options pro rata time basis to reflect the period of service up to termination Options may normally only be granted in the six weeks beginning with of employment.
Alternatively, the Remuneration Committee may allow the date on which the Executive Scheme is approved and adopted options to be exercised after termination of employment, but on the by the Company, and thereafter in the six week period following the basis of performance up to that time, with the number of Shares again announcement by the Company of its results for any period.
Options being reduced on a pro rata time basis, unless the Remuneration may be granted outside these periods in exceptional circumstances.
This latter treatment of options will also No options may be granted more than ten years after the adoption of apply in the case of the death of a participant.
Options are personal to participants and may not be transferred except on death.
Change of control In the event of a takeover, reconstruction or winding-up of the Price Company, options may be exercised early to the extent that the The price payable for each share under an option will be determined by performance condition is met at that time, but with a pro rata the Remuneration Committee before the grant of the option, provided reduction in Shares on a time basis, unless the Remuneration that it shall not be less than the average of the middle market quotations Committee decides otherwise.
of the Companys ordinary shares Shares on the London Stock Exchange over the five dealing days prior to the date of grant.
Variation of capital In the event of a variation of share capital, the Remuneration Limits Committee may take such adjustments to outstanding options The Executive Scheme contains the following limits on the issue of Shares: as they consider appropriate.
i the number of Shares that may be issued on the exercise of options Alteration or awards granted in any period of ten years under all the The Remuneration Committee has the right to alter the rules of the 0346 DC AR 2006 p68-85 8 6 06 4:48 pm Page 84 84 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 Explanatory notes continued Executive Scheme provided that no amendment to a feature of Part A these periods in exceptional circumstances.
Subject to shareholder of the Executive Scheme that is necessary for it to be approved under approval of the LTISP, it is proposed that the first grant of awards will Schedule 4 to ITEPA may be made without the prior approval of HMRC.
No awards may be granted more In addition, the prior approval of the Company in general meeting must than ten years after the adoption of the LTISP.
Awards are personal to be obtained in the case of any amendment to the advantage of participants and may not be transferred except on death.
Awards are participants which is made to the provisions relating to eligibility, limits, not pensionable.
variation of capital, the maximum entitlement for any one participant and the basis for determining a participants entitlement to Shares.
However, Individual limit any minor amendment to benefit the administration of the Executive The initial value of an award granted in any year will be determined by Scheme or to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or the Remuneration Committee.
The rules of the LTISP permit annual maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for awards to be granted in relation to Shares up to a maximum of 150% participants or any member of the Dairy Crest Group plc may be made of the participants basic salary.
The number of Shares which are the without prior approval of the Company in general meeting.
Any subject of the award will be calculated by dividing the value of the award amendment that is to the disadvantage of participants requires their by the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys majority consent.
Shares on the London Stock Exchange over the five dealing days prior to the date of the award.
Unapproved part of the Executive Scheme Part B The description of Part A of the Executive Scheme also applies to Overall limits Part B of the Executive Scheme except where specified otherwise The LTISP contains the following limits on the issue of Shares: below.
Part B of the Executive Scheme has not been designed for approval by HMRC and is intended for grants of options to executives i the number of Shares that may be issued on the exercise of options in excess of the HMRC 30,000 limit set above.
or awards granted in any period of ten years under all the Companys employee share schemes may not exceed 10% of the Overall limits Companys issued Share capital from time to time: and The limits set out at paragraphs i and ii under the heading Limits in Part A of the Executive Scheme shall also apply to Part B, but not ii the number of Shares that may be issued on the exercise of options the limit in paragraph iii under that heading.
or awards granted in any period of ten years under all the Companys executive share schemes may not exceed 5% of the Individual limits Companys issued Share capital from time to time.
The aggregate market value of Shares in respect of which options are granted to a participant in any financial year may not exceed 200% of Shares may be transferred out of treasury to satisfy awards under the annual base salary as at the date of grant, unless the Remuneration LTISP, but any Shares so transferred will be treated as issued for the Committee decides that exceptional circumstances exist in relation to purposes of the limits in i and ii above.
The LTISP may also operate the retention or recruitment of an employee, in which case the limit will in conjunction with Shares purchased in the market.
Performance conditions Alteration All LTISP awards will be subject to performance conditions.
It is HMRC approval is not required for alterations to Part B of the intended that the first awards granted under the LTISP will be subject Executive Scheme.
to two separate conditions, the first condition applying to 50% of the Shares subject to each award and the second condition applying to Cash alternative the remaining 50%.
Following the exercise of any option granted under Part B of the Executive Scheme, the Remuneration Committee may decide at their In respect of the first 50% of the 2006 awards, the number of Shares discretion, to pay a cash sum to any participant equal to his option gain that vest will be determined by Dairy Crests Total Shareholder Return at the time of exercise.
Alternatively, options may be granted under Part TSR performance over a three year measurement period against the B on the basis that, on exercise, the participant will receive the option TSR performance of a comparator group made up of: Arla Foods UK plc: gain in Shares.
Associated British Foods plc: Glanbia plc: Greencore Group plc: Kerry Limited: Northern Foods plc: Premier Foods plc: RHM plc: Robert The LTISP Wiseman Dairies plc: Tate & Lyle plc and Uniq plc.
If Dairy Crests TSR Eligibility performance over the measurement period is at least median as against Awards may be granted to executives of the Company including the TSR performance of the comparator group, 40% of this part of the executive directors and its subsidiary companies who are selected by award will vest.
100% of the Shares to which this part of the award the Remuneration Committee.
relates will vest if Dairy Crests TSR performance exceeds median by on average at least nine percentage points per annum over the three years Grant of awards of the performance period.
Vesting will be on a straight-line basis Awards may be made in several forms, as determined by the between these two points and none of this part of the award will vest if Remuneration Committee at the date of grant in the light of for example Dairy Crests TSR performance is below median.
The outperformance accounting and tax consequences.
These include: i a contingent right percentage will be determined by the Remuneration Committee at the to acquire Shares at no cost: ii a nil price option: iii a gift of Shares beginning of each three year performance period.
forfeitable in the event that specified conditions are not met: and iv such other form as has substantially the same economic effect.
In respect of the other 50% of the 2006 awards, the number of Shares that vest will be determined by Dairy Crests cumulative economic profit Awards may normally only be granted in the six weeks beginning with EP for the three financial years ending in 2009.
EP is calculated as the date on which the LTISP is approved and adopted by the Company, the difference between 1 net operating profit and 2 an annual capital and thereafter in the six week period following the announcement by the charge, which is in turn calculated as the trading capital employed, Company of its results for any period.
Awards may be granted outside multiplied by a weighted average cost of capital.
For threshold EP, 0346 DC AR 2006 p68-85 8 6 06 4:48 pm Page 85 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 85 40% of this part of the award will vest, rising to 100% on a straight-line Alteration basis for EP at or above the maximum target level.
The threshold and The Remuneration Committee has the right to alter the rules of the maximum target levels will be set by the Remuneration Committee, LTISP.
The prior approval of the Company in general meeting must be taking into account both external and internal forecasts of future EP obtained in the case of any amendment to the advantage of participants performance.
The targets will be designed to demonstrate demanding which is made to the provisions relating to eligibility, limits, variation of and stretching financial performance over the performance period.
capital, the maximum entitlement for any one participant and the basis However, due to the market sensitivity of the chosen EP targets these for determining a participants entitlement to Shares.
However, any will not be disclosed until the end of the relevant period.
minor amendment to benefit the administration of the LTISP or to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable If any awards are granted in excess of 100% of a participants basic tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or any salary the level of vesting for threshold performance will be reviewed member of the Dairy Crest Group plc, may be made without prior by the Remuneration Committee and shareholders will be consulted approval of the Company in general meeting.
Any amendment that regarding the appropriate vesting level prior to making such awards.
is to the disadvantage of participants requires their majority consent.
Timing of release Resolution 11 Shares will not normally be released until the third anniversary of the At the Annual General Meeting held on 14 July 2005 AGM 2005, award date.
shareholders passed a resolution giving the directors authority, in accordance with article 4 B of the Companys articles of association, to Cash alternative allot relevant securities, within the meaning of section 80 of the The Remuneration Committee may decide at their discretion that when Companies Act 1985, in the amount of 10,415,000.
The Company Shares are due to be released, a participant may be paid the cash proposes to renew this authority and the section 80 amount referred to equivalent of the market value of the Shares, instead of the actual Shares.
in Resolution 11 allows the directors to allot relevant securities up to a nominal value of 10,433,000, representing approximately 33% of the Cessation of employment issued ordinary shares of the Company as at 23 May 2006.
The A participant who leaves Dairy Crests service before the release date directors have no present intention of exercising this authority other than will normally forfeit any award to which he would otherwise have been to satisfy the exercise of options.
If the participants service with Dairy Crest ceases through injury, disability, redundancy, retirement by agreement with Dairy Crest, Resolution 12 the employing company or business being sold out of the Group, or in The authority for the Company to make market purchases of its issued exceptional circumstances determined by the Remuneration Committee, share capital, granted last year, will expire at the close of the Annual some of the Shares may be released on the third anniversary of the General Meeting.
This resolution seeks renewal of that authority, again award date but only to the extent that the performance conditions have limited to a maximum number of shares which amounts to been met over the performance period.
The number of Shares to be approximately 10% of the Companys current issued share capital.
released will be reduced pro rata to take into account the length of time The authority has not been used to date and would only be exercised that the participant was employed during the performance period, if the directors believed that a repurchase of shares would result in an unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
Alternatively, increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of the Remuneration Committee may allow Shares to be released shortly shareholders as a whole.
Any shares repurchased under this authority after termination of employment, based on performance up to that time, will be held by the Company as treasury shares.
but with again a pro rata time reduction unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
This latter treatment of awards will also Resolution 13 apply in the case of the death of a participant.
At the AGM 2005 shareholders passed a resolution giving the directors authority to disapply the pre-emption requirements for allotments of Change of control equity securities which, for the purposes of section 94 3A of the Act, In the event of a takeover, reconstruction or winding-up of the Company, includes the sale of treasury shares up to 1,562,275.
The Company Shares may be released early to the extent that the performance proposes to renew this authority up to a nominal value limit of conditions are met at that time.
The number of Shares to be released will 1,564,885 being approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the be reduced on a pro rata time basis unless the Remuneration Committee Company as at 23 May 2006.
The authority has not been used so far decides otherwise.
and the Board has no present intention of allotting any shares in these restricted circumstances.
Variation of capital In the event of a variation of share capital, the Remuneration The Directors believe that the resolutions are in the best Committee may make such adjustments to outstanding awards as they interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and consider appropriate.
unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in favour of all resolutions.
Designed by Tor Pettersen & Partners 020 7432 6100 Printed in England by St Ives Westerham Press Dairy Crest Group plc Annual Report 2006 4609 DC Outer cover AW.
qxd 8 6 06 4:53 pm Page 1 family moments famous brands Dairy Crest Group plc Claygate House Littleworth Road Esher Surrey KT10 9PN Dairy Crest Group plc Company No: 3162897 Visit our website at www.
