137 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Company Secretary and Registered Office This report is available electronically on the Companys website N D Jennings, FCA which contains a link to Shareview to enable shareholders to Northcliffe House register for electronic mailings.
Notification by email has been 2 Derry Street given of the availability of this Annual Report on the Companys London website to those shareholders who have registered.
W8 5TT England Low cost share dealing service The Company has arranged with its brokers, JP Morgan Cazenove Registered Number: 184594 Limited, to provide a simple, low-cost share dealing service for A Ordinary Non-Voting shares in Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
Website The Group has an internet website which gives information on the The main features are: a basic commission of 1% on both Company and its operating subsidiaries and provides details of purchases and sales subject to a minimum commission of 10 significant Group announcements.
It also has a site giving details per transaction : reduced commission rates for transactions over of job opportunities within the Group.
For further details, please contact JP Morgan Cazenove Limited, Company Share Schemes, The addresses are: at 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA: the telephone number is http: www.
com Lloyds TSB Registrars also provide a simple low-cost dealing Financial calendar 2007 service for Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares details of which are available at www.
co. uk dealing or by calling 10th January Annual Report published 0870 850 0852.
7th February Annual General Meeting Details of these and other low-cost dealing services can be found 9th February Payment of final dividend on the Companys website at www.
31st March Payment of interest on loan notes 1st April Half year end Loan notes Loan notes issued by the Company and by Daily Mail and General 24th May Half year results and dividend announced Investments plc, a subsidiary, are repayable in whole or in part at 6th June Interim ex-dividend date the option of loan note holders every six months.
Loan note 8th June Interim record date holders requiring repayment should complete the redemption section on the back of their loan note and send it to reach the 6th July Payment of interim dividend Registrars by 28th February or 31st August for repayments on 30th September Payment of interest on loan notes 31st March or 30th September respectively.
30th September Year end Eurobond paying agent 21st November Annual results and final dividend announced The principal paying agent for the Companys 10% Bonds due 28th November Ex-dividend date 2021 and the 7.5% Bonds due 2013 is Deutsche Bank AG London, 30th November Record date Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester St, London EC2N 2DB.
The principal paying agent for the Companys 5.75% Bonds due 2018 is HSBC Bank plc, Corporate Trust and Loan Agency, Capital gains tax 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
Enquiries should be directed The market value of both the Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting to John Donegan, Group Financial Controller, who can be shares in the Company on 31st March, 1982 adjusted for the 1994 contacted on 020 7938 6627, and whose e-mail address is bonus issue of A Ordinary Non-Voting shares and for the four-forjohn.
one share split in 2000 was 9.75 pence.
@ Share price information Registrars The current price of the Companys Ordinary and A Ordinary All enquiries regarding shareholdings, dividends, lost share Non-Voting shares can be found on page 516 of Teletext on certificates, loan notes in the Company and in Daily Mail and analogue Channel 4 and on page 866 of Teletext on digital General Investments plc, or changes of address should be ITV Freeview and Satellite.
A graph, illustrating the recent directed to Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address set out on performance of the A shares, is shown on page 15. page 140.
Crest Electronic communications Shareholders have the choice either of holding their shares in Lloyds TSB Registrars operate Shareview, a free online service, electronic form in an account on the CREST system or in the which enables shareholders with internet access to check their physical form of share certificates.
shareholdings and other related information and to register to receive notification by email of the release of the Interim and Investor relations Annual Reports.
It also offers practical help on matters such as Investor relations are the responsibility of Nicholas Jennings, transferring shares or updating your own details.
Shareholders Company Secretary, whose office is responsible for distribution may register for the service at www.
He is assisted by Fran Sallas.
The investor relations e-mail address is investor.
@ Daily Mail and General Trust plc 138 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Continued Sharegift In the UK, DMGT supports ShareGift, which is administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity number 1052686 and which operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders wishing to give small holdings of shares to benefit charitable causes.
It may be especially useful for those who wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares which would cost more to sell than they are worth.
There are no capital gains tax implications i. e. no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief.
If you would like to use ShareGift or receive more information about the scheme, they can be contacted by visiting their website at www.
org or by writing to The , 46GrosvenorStreet, LondonW1K3HN.
Warning to shareholders Over the last year many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
The Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators has published guidance to shareholders who receive any unsolicited investment advice to: Make sure shareholders obtain the correct name of the person and organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Inform Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3970.
They are not able to investigate such incidents themselves but will record the details and pass them on to Daily Mail and General Trust plc and liaise with the FSA.
Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
