Notes to the Company Financial Statements 33.
Accounting Policies DEFERRED TAXATION These financial statements have been prepared in pounds sterling under Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions Investments and financial Instruments in accordance with the Companies or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
to pay more or a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the following exceptions: The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out below together with an explanation of where changes have been provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, and gains on disposal in the year.
of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding The following accounting policies are applied consistently in dealing with agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at statements.
the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax DIVIDENDS only where the replacement assets are sold: Dividends received are included in the accounts in the period the related dividends are actually received.
provision is made for tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint TANGIBLE ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, Tangible assets are stated in the Balance Sheet at cost less accumulated dividends have been accrued as receivable: depreciation.
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Depreciation is provided on tangible assets to write off the cost less Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be estimated residual value of each asset over its expected useful economic suitable taxable profits from which future reversal of the underlying life on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: timing differences can be deducted.
Equipment 10%25% Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at tax rates that are Computer equipment 33% expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the INVESTMENTS balance sheet date.
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are included in the financial statements at cost less provisions for impairment.
74 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report ISSUE EXPENSES AND SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT OPERATING LEASES Cost of share issues are written off against the premium arising on the Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss issue of share capital.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES SHARE BASED PAYMENTS The functional currency for the Company is pounds sterling.
The Company issues both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments as an incentive to certain key management and staff.
EquityTransactions in foreign currencies during the year are recorded in the settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates ruling vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of the number of at the balance sheet date.
shares that will eventually vest.
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Fair value is measured by use of an actuarial binomial model.
The The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The Company policy for derivative financial instruments applied prospectively from 1 January 2005 is identical to the Group policy applied prospectively from 1 January 2005 as detailed in Note 2 to the Group financial statements.
PENSIONS The Company contributes to the personal pension arrangements of Executive Directors and employees up to a specified percentage of salary in lieu of a formal corporate scheme.
Contributions in lieu of pensions are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 75
