Company Report of the Auditors INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF Chairmans and Chief Executives Review, Business Review, Financial DANA PETROLEUM PLC Review, Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of the Directors We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Dana Remuneration Report, Proven and Probable Reserves and Resources Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the and Exploration and Production interests.
We consider the implications Balance Sheet and the related notes 33 to 47.
These parent Company for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Dana We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 December 2006. on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors by the Directors in the preparation of the parent Company financial report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, disclosed.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial Company financial statements and the part of the Directors statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Opinion International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the 31 December 2006: Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the parent Company financial statements and the part of the the information given in the parent company Directors report is Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly consistent with the financial statements.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept parent Company financial statements.
proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider Aberdeen whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Highlights, the 30 April 2007 72 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report
