Notes to the Company Financial Statements 33.
Accounting Policies DEFERRED TAXATION These financial statements have been prepared in pounds sterling under Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions Investments and financial Instruments in accordance with the Companies or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
to pay more or a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the following exceptions: The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out below together with an explanation of where changes have been provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, and gains on disposal in the year.
of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding The following accounting policies are applied consistently in dealing with agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at statements.
the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax DIVIDENDS only where the replacement assets are sold: Dividends received are included in the accounts in the period the related dividends are actually received.
provision is made for tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint TANGIBLE ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, Tangible assets are stated in the Balance Sheet at cost less accumulated dividends have been accrued as receivable: depreciation.
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Depreciation is provided on tangible assets to write off the cost less Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be estimated residual value of each asset over its expected useful economic suitable taxable profits from which future reversal of the underlying life on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: timing differences can be deducted.
Equipment 10%25% Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at tax rates that are Computer equipment 33% expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the INVESTMENTS balance sheet date.
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are included in the financial statements at cost less provisions for impairment.
74 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report
