Notes to the Group Financial Statements 1.
Authorisation of Financial Statements and Statement value of the assets acquired or assets given up in the case of swap of Compliance with IFRS transactions, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or The Groups financial statements of Dana Petroleum plc for the year assumed at the date of completion of the acquisition, plus costs directly ended 31 December 2006 were authorised for issue by the Board of attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities Directors on 30 April 2007 and the balance sheet was signed on the and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are Boards behalf by Thomas P Cross and David A MacFarlane.
Dana measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date irrespective of Petroleum plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition Wales and domiciled in Scotland.
The Companys ordinary shares are over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets traded on the London Stock Exchange.
acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of are included excluded 31 December 2006.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent in the consolidated income statement from the date on which control with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in Note 2.
Joint Ventures The Group is engaged in oil and gas exploration, development and 2.
Accounting Policies for the Group Financial Statements production through unincorporated joint ventures and production sharing The following accounting policies are applied consistently in dealing with contracts together Joint Ventures.
The Group accounts for its share items which are considered material in relation to the Groups financial of the results and net assets of these Joint Ventures as jointly controlled statements.
In addition, where Dana acts as operator to the Joint Venture, the gross liabilities and receivables including amounts due to or from BASIS OF ACCOUNTING non-operating partners of the Joint Venture are included in the Group The financial information has been prepared using accounting policies Balance Sheet.
The Groups current Joint Venture interests are detailed consistent with IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations adopted by the European on pages 81 to 83.
Union and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been REVENUE prepared under the historical cost convention, except for certain fair Revenue reflects actual sales value, net of VAT and overriding royalties, value adjustments required by those accounting policies.
in respect of liftings sold.
Due to the fact that the Group follows the entitlement basis, adjustments in respect of overlift liftings greater than ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES production entitlement and underlift production entitlement greater The Groups accounting policies make use of estimates and judgements than liftings are recorded in against cost of sales at market value.
in the following areas: Impairment, Depreciation, Decommissioning, Derivative Financial Instruments and Share-based Payments.
These are Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis and is disclosed described in more details in the relevant accounting policy.
separately on the face of the income statement.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION FOREIGN CURRENCIES The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of The functional currency for material subsidiaries is pounds sterling.
the Company and each of its subsidiary undertakings having eliminated all inter-company transactions and balances.
Transactions in foreign currencies during the year are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of Acquisitions the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Business combinations are dealt with on the basis of the purchase currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates ruling method of accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair at the balance sheet date.
48 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report
