Notes to the Group Financial Statements 1.
Authorisation of Financial Statements and Statement value of the assets acquired or assets given up in the case of swap of Compliance with IFRS transactions, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or The Groups financial statements of Dana Petroleum plc for the year assumed at the date of completion of the acquisition, plus costs directly ended 31 December 2006 were authorised for issue by the Board of attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities Directors on 30 April 2007 and the balance sheet was signed on the and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are Boards behalf by Thomas P Cross and David A MacFarlane.
Dana measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date irrespective of Petroleum plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition Wales and domiciled in Scotland.
The Companys ordinary shares are over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets traded on the London Stock Exchange.
acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of are included excluded 31 December 2006.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent in the consolidated income statement from the date on which control with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in Note 2.
Joint Ventures The Group is engaged in oil and gas exploration, development and 2.
Accounting Policies for the Group Financial Statements production through unincorporated joint ventures and production sharing The following accounting policies are applied consistently in dealing with contracts together Joint Ventures.
The Group accounts for its share items which are considered material in relation to the Groups financial of the results and net assets of these Joint Ventures as jointly controlled statements.
In addition, where Dana acts as operator to the Joint Venture, the gross liabilities and receivables including amounts due to or from BASIS OF ACCOUNTING non-operating partners of the Joint Venture are included in the Group The financial information has been prepared using accounting policies Balance Sheet.
The Groups current Joint Venture interests are detailed consistent with IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations adopted by the European on pages 81 to 83.
Union and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been REVENUE prepared under the historical cost convention, except for certain fair Revenue reflects actual sales value, net of VAT and overriding royalties, value adjustments required by those accounting policies.
in respect of liftings sold.
Due to the fact that the Group follows the entitlement basis, adjustments in respect of overlift liftings greater than ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES production entitlement and underlift production entitlement greater The Groups accounting policies make use of estimates and judgements than liftings are recorded in against cost of sales at market value.
in the following areas: Impairment, Depreciation, Decommissioning, Derivative Financial Instruments and Share-based Payments.
These are Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis and is disclosed described in more details in the relevant accounting policy.
separately on the face of the income statement.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION FOREIGN CURRENCIES The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of The functional currency for material subsidiaries is pounds sterling.
the Company and each of its subsidiary undertakings having eliminated all inter-company transactions and balances.
Transactions in foreign currencies during the year are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of Acquisitions the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Business combinations are dealt with on the basis of the purchase currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates ruling method of accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair at the balance sheet date.
48 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report Exchange differences resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities production assets belonging to the same geographic segment to form of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into pounds sterling at the Cash Generating Unit CGU for impairment testing.
The equivalent year-end rates of exchange, together with those differences resulting combined carrying value of the CGU is compared against the CGUs from the restatement of profits and losses from average to year-end recoverable amount and any resulting impairment loss is written off to the rates, are taken directly to the cumulative translation reserve.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined as exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Transactions denominated in local currencies are re-measured into the Property, Plant and Equipment Development and Production functional currency at the rate ruling on the date that they arose.
Assets Capitalisation OIL AND GAS EXPENDITURE Development and production D&P assets are accumulated into single The Group accounts for oil and gas expenditure as follows: field cost centres and represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves and bringing them into production together with the E&E Intangible Assets Exploration and Evaluation Assets expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves previously Capitalisation transferred from E&E assets as outlined in the policy above.
Certain costs other than payments to acquire the legal right to explore incurred prior to acquiring the rights to explore are charged directly to the Depreciation income statement.
All costs incurred after the rights to explore an area Costs relating to each single field cost centre are depleted on a unit of have been obtained, such as geological and geophysical costs and other production method based on the commercial proven and probable direct costs of exploration drilling, trenching, sampling and technical reserves for that cost centre.
Development assets are not depreciated feasibility and commercial viability activities and appraisal are until production commences.
The amortisation calculation takes account accumulated and capitalised as intangible exploration and evaluation of the estimated future costs of development of recognised proven and E&E assets.
probable reserves, based on current price levels.
Changes in reserve quantities and cost estimates are recognised prospectively from the last E&E costs are not amortised prior to the conclusion of appraisal reporting date.
At completion of appraisal activities if technical feasibility is demonstrated and commercial reserves are discovered, then, following Currently there are no significant items of property, plant and equipment development sanction, the carrying value of the relevant E&E asset deemed to have different useful lives.
will be reclassified as a development and production asset, but only after the carrying value of the relevant E&E asset has been assessed Impairment for impairment, and where appropriate, its carrying value adjusted.
A review is performed for any indication that the value of the Groups If after completion of appraisal activities in an area, it is not possible to D&P assets may be impaired.
determine technical feasibility and commercial viability or if the legal right to explore expires or if the Company decides not to continue exploration For D&P assets when there are such indications, an impairment test is and evaluation activity, then the costs of such unsuccessful exploration carried out on the CGU.
Each CGU is identified in accordance with IAS and evaluation is written off to the income statement in the period the 36.
Danas CGUs are those assets which generate largely independent relevant events occur.
cash flows and are normally, but not always, single development or production areas.
If necessary, additional depletion is charged through Impairment the income statement if the capitalised costs of the CGU exceed the If and when facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of associated estimated future discounted cash flows of the related an E&E asset may exceed its recoverable amount an impairment review commercial oil and gas reserves.
Asset Purchases and Disposals For E&E assets when there are such indications, an impairment test is When a commercial transaction involves the purchase of a D&P asset in carried out by grouping the E&E assets with the development & exchange for an E&E asset, the transaction is accounted for at fair value Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 49 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued with the difference between fair value and cost being taken to the and expenditures in respect of the asset are incurred and activities that income statement.
are necessary to develop an asset are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when the development is substantially complete.
When a commercial transaction involves the exchange of E&E assets of similar size and characteristics, no fair value calculation is performed.
Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term of the The capitalised costs of the asset being sold are transferred to the asset related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
However, where the size and characteristics of the E&E fees and issue costs are amortised and charged to the income assets significantly differ, the transaction is accounted for at fair value statement as finance costs over the term of the debt.
with the difference between fair value and cost being taken to the income statement.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS The Group determines the classification of its available-for-sale financial Proceeds from the entire disposal of an E&E asset are deducted from the assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each capitalised costs of the asset with any surplus deficit taken to the income financial year end.
When available-for-sale financial assets are recognised statement as a gain or loss on sale.
Proceeds from a part disposal of an initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus E&E asset are deducted from the capitalised cost of the asset with any directly attributable transaction costs.
surplus taken to the income statement as a gain on sale.
After initial recognition available-for-sale financial assets are measured at Proceeds from the entire disposal of a D&P asset, or any part thereof, fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate are taken to the income statement together with the requisite component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the proportional net book value of the asset, or part thereof, being sold.
investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income DECOMMISSIONING statement.
The Group recognises the full discounted cost of decommissioning when the obligation to rectify environmental damage arises, principally on INVENTORIES development sanction.
The amount recognised is the present value of Inventories comprise materials and equipment, which are stated at the the estimated future expenditure determined in accordance with local lower of cost and net realisable value.
A corresponding D&P asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created.
This is subsequently TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES depreciated as part of the capital costs of the D&P asset.
Any change in Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the original invoiced the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an amount.
Other receivables, excluding underlifted amounts, are measured adjustment to the provision and the D&P asset.
The unwinding of the at nominal value.
Underlifted amounts are measured at market value in discount on the decommissioning provision is included as a finance cost.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT OTHER THAN D&P ASSETS TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Property, plant and equipment other than D&P assets are stated in the Trade and other payables, excluding overlifted amounts, are measured at balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Overlifted amounts are measured at market value in accordance provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual with industry practice.
value of each asset on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: SHARE ISSUE EXPENSES AND SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT Equipment 10%25% Costs of share issues are written off against the premium arising on the Computer equipment 33% issue of share capital.
FINANCE COSTS AND DEBT TAXATION Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction Current Tax of D&P assets are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
Current tax is recognised as a liability to the extent unpaid or if the amount The commencement of capitalisation begins when both finance costs paid exceeds the amount due it is recognised as an asset.
Current tax 50 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be subsequent reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting paid recovered from the taxation authorities, using tax rates and laws that gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair Deferred Tax value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising hedge : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts hedges : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations net in the Group financial statements.
Deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial Fair value hedge : changes in the fair value of derivatives that are recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have Cash flow hedge : the effective portion of changes in the fair value of been enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date.
derivatives that are designated and qualify as hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is immediately in the income statement.
probable that future income tax profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit and loss for Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
However, investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the of a non-financial asset for example, project costs or a major business Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in investment or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred the foreseeable future.
in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Petroleum Revenue Tax UK Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT is treated as an income tax and When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no deferred PRT is calculated and provided for.
Current UK PRT is charged longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or as a tax expense on chargeable field profits included in the income loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised statement and is deductible for UK corporation tax.
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, PENSIONS the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately The Group contributes to the personal pension arrangements of transferred to the income statement.
Executive Directors and employees up to a specified percentage of salary in lieu of a formal corporate scheme.
Contributions in lieu Net investment hedge : hedges for net investments in foreign of pensions are charged to the income statement as incurred.
operations are delivered through derivatives and or foreign currency borrowings.
Any gain or loss on a derivative hedging instrument relating DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure loss relating to the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and movements in immediately in the income statement.
Any gains or losses on foreign oil and gas prices.
currency borrowings used as a hedge are recognised in equity.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income contract is entered into and are remeasured at their fair value at each statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 51 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Derivatives not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting The Group issues both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Certain other derivative instruments, while providing effective economic payments as an incentive to certain key management and staff.
hedges under the Groups policies, may not be designated as hedges Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at at the Groups discretion or if the required documentation standards the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the have not been achieved.
Changes in the fair value of such derivative equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an actuarial binomial model.
The Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-derivative expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, characteristics are not closely related to those host contracts and the exercise restrictions, and behavioral considerations.
host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised based on the current fair value determined at each reporting date and that Fair value estimation of financial instruments traded in active markets portion of the employees services to which the payment relates that has such as available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices been received by the reporting date.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet TRANSITION TO IFRS date.
Other financial instruments are valued using standard pricing IFRS 1 permits certain mandatory exemptions and also allows optional models or discounted cash flow techniques.
exemptions from the application of certain IFRS in order to assist companies with the transition process.
Dana Petroleum has applied all OPERATING LEASES the mandatory exceptions and in addition made the following significant Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on decisions in implementing IFRS: a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
IFRS 2 Share based payments is applied to all share based MAINTENANCE EXPENDITURE awards granted after 7 November 2002 that did not vest before Expenditure on major maintenance, refits or repairs is capitalised where 1 January 2005 it enhances the life or performance of an asset above its originally assessed standard of performance: replaces an asset or part of an asset IFRS 3 Business combinations prior to 1 January 2004 have not which was separately depreciated and which is then written off, or been restated restores the economic benefits of an asset which has been fully depreciated.
All other maintenance expenditure is charged to the income IAS 21 Cumulative translation differences have been set to zero statement as incurred.
at 1 January 2004 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement will call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with be applied prospectively from 1 January 2005 and as such the original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
associated 2004 comparatives are presented under UK GAAP Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
to measure certain development and production assets at the transition date to IFRS at fair value and use this fair value as their SHARE BASED PAYMENTS deemed cost The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 In addition, the Group has early adopted IFRS 6 Exploration for and that had not vested as of 1 January 2005.
Evaluation of Mineral Resources with effect from 1 January 2004.
52 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT APPLIED Upon adoption of IFRS 8, the Group will have to disclose information During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards to enable users of its financial statements to evaluate the nature and and interpretations with an effective date after the commencement date financial effects of the different business activities in which it engages and of the accounting period for these financial statements: the economic environment in which it operates.
For the Groups current business activities, the identification, aggregation and measurement of International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs reportable segments under IFRS 8, would not result in any differences from the Groups current interpretation of IAS 14 Segment Reporting, Accounting Periods the prevailing standard that IFRS 8 will replace.
IFRS 8 will however, Commencing After require additional disclosures for each reportable segments as follows: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 criteria for identification IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: nature, geographic location of business and main customers Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007 IAS 23 Borrowing Costs 1 January 2009 financial performance metrics, both Income Statement and Balance Sheet International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Accounting Periods inter-segment transactions Commencing After differences in Accounting policy and methodology between IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006 segments IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006 IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting Upon adoption of IAS 1, the Group will have to disclose additional and Impairment 1 November 2006 information about its objectives, policies and processes for managing IFRIC 11 IFRS2 Group and Treasury capital.
Share Transactions 1 March 2007 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008 On the basis of the current borrowing facility described in Note 18, and the Groups accounting policy for finance costs and debt described on The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards page 50, the adoption of IAS 23 will not impact the Group.
and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their significance and the nature and extent of risks that they give rise to.
More specifically the Group will need to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail.
There will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 53
