Statement of Directors responsibilities Going concern Group and hence from taking reasonable steps for the prevention and The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate detection of fraud and other irregularities.
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 41 to the accounts.
103 and 107 to 111, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent Statement of Directors responsibilities for accounts judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which The following statement which should be read in conjunction with the they consider to be applicable have been followed.
auditors report set out on page 39, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of The maintenance and integrity of the Kesa Electricals website is the the auditors in relation to the accounts.
responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
the company and the group and for the profit or loss for that period.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are State that the group financial statements comply with IFRS reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to State that the company financial statements comply with UK GAAP prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Kesa Electricals plc will continue in business The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the 38 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06
