Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial information set out on pages 40 to 44 comprises the consolidated financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 31 January 2006 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The date of transition to IFRS was 1 February 2004.
From 1 February 2005, Kesa Electricals plc is required to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting standards adopted for use in the EU.
Kesa Electricals plc previously reported consolidated financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP until 31 January 2005.
The adjustments required to restate previously reported UK GAAP comparative financial information on to an IFRS basis are set out in note 42 of the financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of certain critical estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The rules for first time adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS 1 requires the use of the same accounting policies in the IFRS transition balance sheet 1 February 2004 and for all periods presented thereafter.
The accounting policies must comply with all IFRSs effective at the reporting date and for the first financial reporting under IFRS.
IFRS 1 permits companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of taking the following exemptions: a Business combinations prior to 1 February 2004 have not been restated to comply with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
b All cumulative actuarial gains and losses with respect to employee benefits have been recognised in shareholders equity at 1 February 2004. c Cumulative translation differences on foreign operations are deemed to be zero at 1 February 2004.
Any gains and losses recognised in the consolidated income statement on subsequent disposal of foreign operations will therefore exclude translation differences arising prior to the transition date.
d IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement have been adopted from 1 February 2005, with no restatement of comparative information.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 45 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 1 Accounting policies continued Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective.
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 February 2006 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted, as follows: IAS 39 Amendment The Fair Value Option effective from 1 January 2006.
This amendment changes the definition of financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss and restricts the ability to designate financial instruments as part of this category.
The Group believes that the impact of this amendment will be minimal as it currently holds no financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and a complementary amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Instruments - Capital Disclosures, effective from 1 January 2007.
IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures to improve the information about financial instruments.
It requires the disclosure of qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, including specified minimum disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including sensitivity analysis to market risk.
It replaces IAS 30 Disclosures in the Financial Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions, and disclosure requirements in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
It is applicable to all operations that report under IFRS.
The amendment to IAS 1 introduces disclosures about the level of an entitys capital and how it manages capital.
The Group assessed the impact of IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 and concluded that the main additional disclosures will be the sensitivity analysis to market risk and the capital disclosures required by the amendment to IAS 1.
The Group will apply IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 from annual periods beginning 1 January 2007.
IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market - waste electrical and electronic equipment effective from 1 January 2006.
IFRIC 6 requires that the determination of what constitutes the obligatory event in the context of decommissioning waste electrical and electronic equipment for the purpose of recognising a provision for waste management costs to be based on participation in the market during a measurement period.
Management have considered IFRIC 6 and have determined that it will have minimal impact on the Group.
Use of adjusted measures Kesa Electricals plc believes that retail profit representing total operating profit before the Demerger Award Plan charge, losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment and the share of joint venture and associate interest and taxation and adjusted earnings per share provides additional useful information on underlying trends and business performance to shareholders.
These measures are used by the Group for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements by employees.
The term retail profit is not defined by IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measurements of profit.
The principal accounting policies in dealing with items considered material in relation to the accounts are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented with the exception of IAS 32 and IAS 39 which have been adopted from 1 February 2005.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired are recorded under the acquisition method and their results are included from the date of acquisition.
Associated undertakings and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
The results of subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings that have been disposed of during the year are included up to the effective date of disposal.
All significant consolidated companies have a 31 January accounting year end.
Datart Investments S. A. makes up its accounts to 31 December owing to local conditions and to avoid undue delay in the presentation of the Group accounts.
Consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all operations over which the Group has the power to control the financial and operating policies.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
46 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 1 Accounting policies continued The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the settlement including assets, equity instruments and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
b Associates and joint ventures Associates are all operations over which the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control.
Joint ventures are all operations over which the Group exercises joint control with partners.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of its associates and joint venture post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, its share of post-acquisition valuation movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves are recognised in reserves.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates and joint venture.
Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have been changed where possible to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups operations are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the operation operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Group's presentation currency.
b Transaction and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary assets held for sale are included in fair value reserves in equity.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 47 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 1 Accounting policies continued c Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group operations that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates unless the average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the date of transactions : and iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity from the transition date.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders funds.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Segmental information Primary segmental information reflects the Groups management structure.
The Board of Directors considers that there is no secondary segment by which Kesa is managed.
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products and services, which is subject to risk and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
The principal activity of the Group is the retail of electrical goods and furniture, which is managed through the following business segments: Darty France BUT France Comet UK Others comprising business units of less than 10 per cent of the Groups overall business Reported segment results represent the retail profit of each segment.
Unallocated items comprise corporate head office expenses and Group funding costs.
Segment assets and liabilities represent the balance sheet carrying values held at the end of the year.
Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill, trade and other receivables, inventories, prepayments and accrued income.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, accruals, deferred income and post-employment benefit obligations.
Unallocated liabilities include loan and finance lease liabilities as well as interest and tax related prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions.
Unalloacted assets include centrally held cash and other liquid assets and financial assets, as well as interest and tax related prepaid expenses and accrued income.
48 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 1 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment tangible fixed assets Land and buildings comprise mainly retail outlets, warehouses and offices.
All tangible fixed assets are stated at historic cost.
Subsequent costs are included in an assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate.
Only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with an asset will flow to the Group, the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, the assets useful life exceeds one full accounting period and costs exceed 1,000 or equivalent are these costs included in the carrying amount.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The Group selects its depreciation rates carefully and reviews them regularly to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal factor the Group takes into account is the length of time during which the assets are expected to be used within the business.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives, and the depreciation periods of the principal categories are as follows: Freehold buildings 20 years Long leasehold 20 years or lease term if shorter Short leasehold over the remaining period of the lease Tenants fixtures and improvements between five and 20 years Computers and electronic equipment between two and four years Motorcars and commercial vehicles between two and five years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Estimated recoverable amounts are reviewed at least annually.
Gains and losses on disposals outside the Group are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount.
These are included in the income statement.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associates.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less impairment losses.
Goodwill impairment losses cannot be reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an operation include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the operation sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Each of those cash-generating units represents a separate autonomous unit within the Group, where the management of the unit has independent control and responsibility for managing the cash flow of that unit.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 49 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 1 Accounting policies continued b Other intangibles Trademarks and licences are shown at historic cost.
Trademarks and licences have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software controlled by the Group, and where it is probable that they will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Other costs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Direct costs include the software development, employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of other intangibles over their estimated useful lives of between two to six years.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful economic life consist of payments made in advance in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises.
These are not amortised, but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
An indefinite useful life is deemed appropriate for these assets as their value does not diminish systematically over time and they can normally be re-sold.
General impairment of assets Assets having an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicated that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable, or that the assets use may not generate an economic benefit greater than their carrying value.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
The discount rate is applied based upon the Group's weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
Financial instruments UK GAAP accounting policies applicable up to 31 January 2005 Financial assets are recognised on the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Discounts and premia are charged or credited to the income statement over the life of the asset or liability to which they relate.
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for using hedge accounting to the extent that they are held to hedge a financial cash flow, asset or liability.
Outstanding contracts used to hedge against cash flows, which themselves will be accounted for in the profits and losses of a future period, are not recognised, or are deferred when they mature, and are carried forward against corresponding gains and losses when they occur.
When a financial instrument ceases to be a hedge either as a result of the underlying asset or liability being extinguished, or because a future event is no longer likely to occur, the instrument will thereafter be marked to its fair value in the financial statements.
Income and expenditure arising on financial instruments held for hedging purposes is recgonised on an accrual basis and credited or charged to the income statement in the financial period in which it arises.
Issue costs on debt are capitalised and amortised over the life of the debt.
Financial instruments IFRS accounting policies applicable after 1 February 2005 Investments The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments: and available for sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
50 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 1 Accounting policies continued a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading: and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term, or if so designated by management.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either held for trading, or are expected to be realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group supplies money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
c Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
d Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Available for sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried at fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available for sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available for sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
The fair values of financial assets, including quoted investments, are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques such as the use of recent arms-length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the investments specific circumstances.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 51 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 1 Accounting policies continued Derivatives All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
All derivatives are categorised as investments held for trading a sub-category of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as cash flow hedges.
As such they are valued at each balance sheet date and variances in value are charged in full to the income statement.
It is Group policy that we do not enter into derivatives that are not intended for the purpose of economic cash flow hedging.
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are tested for their hedge effectiveness on a regular periodic basis.
Should these derivatives fail the requirements of this test they are immediately reclassified as investments held for trading and treated accordingly.
To the extent that these derivatives are demonstrated to be an effective hedge, movements in value are accumulated in equity reserves and are recycled against the benefit or charge made to the income statement when the hedged transaction is settled.
To the extent that these derivatives are ineffective as a hedge, any variance in value is charged directly to the income statement.
The Group has strict treasury guidelines on derivatives and hedging policy.
The Group holds two types of derivative instrument as hedges to manage the financial risk profile of the Group and to limit the Groups economic exposure to non-functional currency and interest rate volatility: 1 Currency derivatives in the form of forward exchange contracts between US dollars and functional currency are taken out to build a pool of forward contracts, which match the Groups future US dollar currency liability on committed orders for the purchase of product.
2 Interest rate swaps converting a variable-rate interest liability into a fixed-rate liability covering a significant proportion of the Groups variablerate term borrowings.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives, and trading and available for sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current ask price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over the counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
The value of inventory includes the purchase price and transport costs to our warehouses and retail stores.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Costs of inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases of products.
A provision for impairment of inventories is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover the cost of inventory when sold.
Cost of product sales represents the value of stock sold when recognised in revenue.
52 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 1 Accounting policies continued Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and in the event that a trade receivable is only recoverable more than 12 months after the balance sheet date then it is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flow, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of the movement in provision is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts for which a right of set off exists.
Other bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, or for the acquisition of a business, are included in the cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Income tax Income tax on the profit and loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current income tax is the expected income tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, and adjustments to income tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred income tax is provided in full using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and associates, to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 53 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 1 Accounting policies continued Employee benefits a Pension obligations Group companies operate various pension schemes, which are supplemental to contributions paid to mandatory state funded schemes.
Company-sponsored schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, as determined by periodic actuarial calculations or local legislation.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for past service costs which have not yet vested.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately outside the income statement in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
b Share-based compensation The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The total amount expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares granted.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
c Other long-term employee benefits Some Group companies provide long-term employment benefits to employees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
d Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable if employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan, without possibility of withdrawal or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
Restructuring provisions, comprising of lease termination penalties and employee termination payments, are only recognised when plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken on or before the balance sheet date.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
54 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 1 Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods and services, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: a Sales of goods retail Sales of goods are recognised at the point of sale of a product to the customer or upon delivery to the customer, which ever is the later.
Retail sales are usually in cash or by card.
Certain companies within the Group sell products with a right of return.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the value of such returns at the time of sale.
b Sales of services Sales of services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to completion of the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
The Group sells extended warranty contracts.
Where the Group has responsibility for fulfilling obligations under these contracts, the Group recognises the corresponding revenue over the period for which cover is provided, excluding any free period of manufacturers warranty.
Where the Group sells an extended warranty contract and a third-party insurance company has responsibility for contractual obligations, commission revenue for the insured warranty contract is recognised at the time of sale.
Where part of the obligation under these contracts is reinsured by the Group, the revenue relating to the reinsurance is recognised over the period for which reinsurance is provided, excluding any period of manufacturers warranty.
c Royalty and franchise revenue Royalty and franchise revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements and is included within other income.
Interest Interest income and expense is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Leases Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group or any of its subsidiaries are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of minimum lease payments.
Assets capitalised as property, plant and equipment are amortised in accordance with Group depreciation policy.
Payments under such leases are charged against the recognised liability and interest costs are charged to the income statement over the full period of the finance lease on a systematic basis.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any financial incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the full period of the lease.
Charges made in respect of operating leases of property are adjusted from time to time to reflect the impact of market rent reviews throughout the life of the lease.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 55 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 1 Accounting policies continued Contingent assets and liabilities Contingent assets and liabilities arise from conditions or situations, the outcome of which depends on future events.
They are disclosed in note 38 of the accounts.
Events occurring after the balance sheet date The values of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are adjusted if there is evidence that subsequent adjusting events warrant a modification of these values.
These adjustments are made up to the date of approval of the accounts by the Board of Directors.
Other non-adjusting events are disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
Financial risk management Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed.
The Board establishes the Groups financial policies and the Chief Executive Officer CEO establishes objectives in line with these policies.
The Finance Directors Committee and the Treasury Committee, under the supervision of the Group Finance Director GFD, are then responsible for setting financial strategies, which are executed by the central and operating company treasury teams.
Approved treasury management guidelines define and classify risks and also determine, by category of transaction, specific approval, limit and monitoring procedures.
In the course of its business, the Group is exposed to financial market risks, credit risk, settlement risk and liquidity risk.
In accordance with the aforementioned policies, the Group only enters into derivative transactions related to operating and or financial assets or liabilities or anticipated future transactions.
The Group does not enter into trading derivative transactions without underlying assets or liabilities.
Financial market risks are essentially caused by exposures to foreign currencies and interest rates.
Foreign currency transaction risk arises because affiliated companies sometimes undertake transactions in foreign currencies such as the purchase of products.
Translation exposure arises from the consolidation of the Group accounts into sterling.
Interest rate risk comprises the interest price risk that results from borrowing at variable and fixed rates and the interest cash flow risk that results from borrowing.
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations.
The Group is exposed to credit risks on financial instruments such as liquid assets, derivative assets and its trade receivable portfolios.
Credit risk is managed by investing liquid assets and acquiring derivatives with high credit quality financial institutions in accordance with the Groups treasury management guidelines.
The Group is not exposed to concentrations of credit risk on its liquid assets as these are spread over several financial institutions.
As a result of its strong cash flow, the Group does not expect any refinancing issues as current loans agreements expire.
Affiliated companies lend their excess cash at bank to Group finance companies to be invested centrally.
The Treasury Committee reviews and decides the currency and interest rate framework of the Groups intragroup loans portfolio on a monthly basis.
Principal rates of exchange Euro Czech kr Average rate year ended 31 January 2006 1.4645 43.5553 Closing rate 31 January 2006 1.4638 42.3003 Average rate year ended 31 January 2005 1.4735 47.1433 Closing rate 31 January 2005 1.4420 43.0247 56 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 2 Group operating profit Year ended Year ended 31 January 31 January 2006 2005 m m Revenue 4,100.0 3,958.8 Cost of sales 2,876.8 2,735.4 Gross profit 1,223.2 1,223.4 Selling expenses 891.8 875.5 Administrative expenses 211.9 203.9 Other income 32.3 37.7 Group operating profit 151.8 181.7 Share of post tax profit in joint venture and associates 8.1 9.8 Total operating profit 159.9 191.5 The Demerger Award Plan charge and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are included within adminstrative expenses.
3 Segmental analysis France France UK Darty BUT Comet Other Unallocated Group Year ended 31 January 2006 m m m m m m Revenue 1,597.4 578.0 1,529.8 394.8 4,100.0 Retail profit loss 109.9 34.2 38.3 5.4 12.1 164.9 Share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation 0.4 1.8 2.2 Demerger Award Plan charge 0.6 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.5 1.8 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.8 0.1 0.1 1.0 Operating profit loss 108.1 32.1 37.9 5.6 12.6 159.9 Interest payable and similar charges 24.4 Interest receivable 7.8 Net interest 16.6 Profit before tax 143.3 Taxation 48.6 Profit for the financial year 94.7 The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for Darty and BUT are 5.1m and 5.2m respectively.
The share of post-tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit for Darty and BUT are 4.7m and 3.4m respectively.
France France UK Darty BUT Comet Other Unallocated Group m m m m m m Segmental assets 600.0 537.0 390.1 184.2 239.7 1,951.0 Segmental liabilities 513.0 128.7 476.3 109.2 393.6 1,620.8 Investments in equity accounted joint venture and associates of 11.9m and 27.2m are included within the segment assets of Darty and BUT respectively.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 57 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 3 Segmental analysis continued France France UK Darty BUT Comet Other Unallocated Group Year ended 31 January 2006 m m m m m m Other segment items Capital expenditure Property, plant and equipment 30.6 21.5 26.8 18.9 97.8 Intangible assets 2.2 1.2 1.5 4.9 Depreciation note 11 25.0 16.8 23.2 8.8 2.4 76.2 Amortisation of intangible assets note 10 1.5 0.6 0.2 0.1 2.4 Impairment losses plant, property and equipment and intangible fixed assets 1.2 0.1 1.3 Reversal of impairment losses plant, property and equipment and intangible fixed assets 0.8 0.3 1.1 France France UK Darty BUT Comet Other Unallocated Group Year ended 31 January 2005 m m m m m m Revenue 1,536.4 548.6 1,538.1 335.7 3,958.8 Retail profit loss 118.5 41.5 48.7 2.7 11.5 199.9 Share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation 0.8 1.8 2.6 Demerger Award Plan charge 1.6 0.3 0.9 0.6 1.4 4.8 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.1 0.2 0.4 0.1 1.0 Operating profit loss 115.0 39.2 48.2 2.1 13.0 191.5 Interest payable and similar charges 24.1 Interest receivable 10.5 Net interest 13.6 Profit before tax 177.9 Taxation 60.7 Profit for the financial year 117.2 The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for Darty and BUT are 7.4m and 5.0m respectively.
The share of post-tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit for Darty and BUT are 6.6m and 3.2m respectively.
France France UK Darty BUT Comet Other Unallocated Group m m m m m m Segmental assets 590.0 543.1 383.1 147.0 369.9 2,033.1 Segmental liabilities 497.6 142.3 480.8 76.5 534.8 1,732.0 Investment in equity accounted joint venture and associates of 11.5m and 25.6m are included within the segment assets of Darty and BUT respectively.
58 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 3 Segmental analysis continued France France UK Darty BUT Comet Other Unallocated Group Year ended 31 January 2006 m m m m m m Other segment items Capital expenditure Property, plant and equipment 36.4 26.0 22.0 8.4 0.1 92.9 Intangible assets 2.4 0.1 1.3 3.8 Depreciation note 11 22.8 16.8 22.9 7.2 2.4 72.1 Amortisation of intangible assets note 10 1.0 0.6 0.1 0.1 0.7 2.5 Impairment losses plant, property and equipment and intangible fixed assets 2.6 0.4 0.1 3.1 Reversal of impairment losses plant, property and equipment and intangible fixed assets 0.4 0.4 At 31 January 2006 and 31 January 2005, the Group was organised into four business segments, as follows: Darty BUT Comet Other includes BCC, NVB, Datart, Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland Segment revenues by origin are not materially different to segment revenues by destination.
Unallocated items within operating profit comprise corporate expenses.
Segment assets include available for sale and equity accounted investments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, stocks, debtors, other current assets and cash that is not held centrally.
Unallocated assets include centrally held cash and other liquid assets and financial assets, as well as interest and tax related prepaid expenses and accrued income.
Segment liabilities include operating liabilities such as accounts payable, overdrafts that are not held centrally, prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions, excluding those relating to interest and taxes.
Capital expenditure includes additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets, including additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
The Directors do not consider there to be a secondary segment by which the Group is managed.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 59 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 4 Interest payable and similar charges Year ended Year ended 31 January 31 January 2006 2005 m m Interest payable on bank borrowings 18.8 22.1 Interest payable on finance leases 0.4 0.2 Interest on pension schemes 3.0 1.8 Write-off of loan arrangement fees 2.1 Foreign exchange losses 0.1 Total interest payable and similar charges 24.4 24.1 5 Interest receivable Year ended Year ended 31 January 31 January 2006 2005 m m Bank and other interest receivable 7.8 9.3 Foreign exchange gains 1.2 Total interest receivable 7.8 10.5 The foreign exchange gains arise on the re-translation of short-term deposits denominated in a currency other than the operations functional currency.
6 Profit before taxation Year ended Year ended 31 January 31 January 2006 2005 Note m m The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit Staff costs 34 584.3 571.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: Owned assets 11 75.6 71.3 Assets under finance leases 11 0.6 0.8 Amortisation of intangibles 10 2.4 2.5 Impairment of goodwill 10 1.7 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 11 1.3 1.4 Reversal of impairment on property, plant and equipment 11 1.1 0.4 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment including write offs 2.0 1.9 Other operating lease rentals payable Plant and machinery 25.2 22.6 Property 144.5 132.8 Income from the sub-lease of property 4.8 4.7 Inventories Cost of inventories written off 14 23.0 22.1 Impairment of trade receivables 1.5 0.7 60 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 6 Profit before taxation continued Services provided by the Groups auditor and network firms During the year the Group including its overseas subsidaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor at costs as detailed below: Year ended Year ended 31 January 31 January 2006 2005 m m Statutory audit services 1.6 1.4 Other assurance services 0.3 Other advisory services 0.2 Total services 2.1 1.4 Fees paid to other auditors were 0.4m 2005: 0.3m in respect of audit services.
7 Taxation Year ended Year ended 31 January 31 January 2006 2005 m m Analysis of charge in year UK corporation tax Current tax on profits for the year 4.9 12.7 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.9 1.0 4.0 11.7 Foreign tax Current tax on profits for the year 41.9 50.0 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.2 0.5 42.1 50.5 Deferred tax 2.5 1.5 Total taxation 48.6 60.7 The tax charge relates entirely to continuing operations.
Tax on items charged to equity: Current tax charge on foreign exchange gains 0.7 Current tax charge on share schemes 0.1 0.8 Deferred tax charge on share schemes 0.6 0.7 Deferred tax charge on cash flow hedges in reserves 1.2 Deferred tax credit on available for sale investments 0.9 Deferred tax credit on actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations 4.4 5.6 Adjustments in respect of IAS 39 at 1 February 2005 0.9 2.7 6.2 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 61 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 7 Taxation continued Year ended Year ended 31 January 31 January 2006 2005 m m Factors affecting tax charges for the year The tax for the year is higher 2005: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 30 per cent.
The differences are explained below: Profit on ordinary activities before tax 143.3 177.9 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30 per cent 2005: 30 per cent 43.0 53.4 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 5.5 8.0 Adjustments in respect of joint ventures and associates 1.5 1.8 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.1 1.1 Losses not recognised as deferred tax asset 0.5 0.4 Adjustments to tax in respect of prior years 1.0 0.4 Total tax charge 48.6 60.7 Tax charge per Group income statement 48.6 60.7 Share of joint venture and associate taxation 2.2 2.6 Adjusted tax charge 50.8 63.3 Profit before tax per Group income statement 143.3 177.9 Share of joint venture and associate taxation 2.2 2.6 Adjusted profit before tax 145.5 180.5 Effective tax rate 34.9% 35.1% 8 Dividends Year ended Year ended 31 January 31 January 2006 2005 m m Final paid 2005: 8.25 pence 2004: 7.5 pence per share 43.7 39.8 Interim paid 2005: 2.95 pence 2004: 2.75 pence per share 15.6 14.6 59.3 54.4 In addition, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 January 2006 of 9.15 pence per share which will absorb an estimated 48.5m of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 14 July 2006 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 16 June 2006, subject to shareholder approval.
62 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to shareholders by 529.5m shares 2005: 529.6m, being the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
There is no difference between diluted and basic earnings per share.
Supplementary adjusted earnings per share figures are presented.
These exclude the effects of the Demerger Award Plan charge and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Year ended 31 January 2006 Year ended 31 January 2005 Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings amount m pence m pence Basic earnings per share Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 94.7 17.9 117.2 22.1 Adjustments Demerger Award Plan charge 1.8 0.3 4.8 0.9 Loss on disposal of plant, property and equipment 1.0 0.2 1.0 0.2 Tax effect of adjustments 0.9 0.2 1.6 0.3 Basic adjusted earnings per share 96.6 18.2 121.4 22.9 10 Intangible assets Other Goodwill Software intangibles Total As at 31 January 2006 m m m m Cost At 1 February 2005 199.4 12.2 10.2 221.8 Transfers 1.0 1.0 Additions separately acquired 0.1 1.4 1.5 Additions internally generated 3.4 3.4 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.7 1.0 0.1 3.8 At 31 January 2006 195.8 16.0 11.0 222.8 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 February 2005 16.8 2.9 1.1 20.8 Charge for year 1.5 0.9 2.4 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.1 0.1 1.2 At 31 January 2006 15.7 4.3 2.0 22.0 Net book value internally generated 8.5 8.5 other 180.1 3.2 9.0 192.3 Total at 31 January 2006 180.1 11.7 9.0 200.8 At 31 January 2005 182.6 9.3 9.1 201.0 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 63 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 10 Intangible assets continued Amortisation charges in the year were included in the income statement as follows: selling expenses 0.4m, administrative expenses 2.0m.
Other Goodwill Software intangibles Total As at 31 January 2005 m m m m Cost At 1 February 2004 195.5 8.5 7.3 211.3 Transfers 2.9 2.9 Additions separately acquired 1.2 1.0 2.2 Additions internally generated 0.3 1.3 1.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.7 0.6 0.5 3.8 At 31 January 2005 199.4 12.3 10.1 221.8 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 February 2004 14.4 0.3 1.0 15.7 Charge for year 2.4 0.1 2.5 Impairment 1.7 1.7 Effects of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 0.2 0.9 At 31 January 2005 16.8 2.9 1.1 20.8 Net book value internally generated 6.4 6.4 other 182.6 2.9 9.1 194.6 Total at 31 January 2005 182.6 9.3 9.1 201.0 Amortisation charges in the year were included in the income statement as follows: selling expenses 0.7m, administrative expenses 1.8m.
Goodwill Goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and amounts tested for impairment based on their value in use.
The carrying amount of goodwill by business segments are as follows: France France UK Group Darty BUT Comet Other Total m m m m m At 31 January 2006 1.2 166.4 12.5 180.1 At 31 January 2005 1.2 168.8 12.6 182.6 Included within the BUT goodwill is 138.9m 2005: 142.9m that arose on the acquisition of BUT in 1998.
The goodwill is allocated to the BUT segment for reporting purposes.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculation for the BUT goodwill were: future operating cash flows for the BUT business were derived using managements latest three-year estimates to 2008 09.
A terminal value was calculated based on the forecast to 2008 09. a long-term growth rate of 3 per cent was assumed for the BUT turnover which represents the expected growth rate in the French furniture market in line with current economic forecasts.
a post-tax discount factor of 8.5 per cent which represents the Groups weighted average cost of capital was used to discount the future cash flows.
64 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 10 Intangible assets continued Whilst management are confident that their assumptions are appropriate, it is possible that there would be an impairment were there to be a change in certain key assumptions.
The carrying value of BUT is 399.2m, including 138.9m of goodwill and the recoverable amount, as measured by a value-in-use calculation was 411.9m.
If the values of the key assumptions were to move by the following amounts, then value in use would equal recoverable amount.
All changes are assumed to happen in isolation: a If long-term growth rate fell 19 basis points from 2009 10 through to perpetuity, then value in use would equal recoverable amount.
b If the discount factor increased by 17 basis points, then the carrying amount would equal the recoverable amount.
c If forecast operating profit was to be 3.3 per cent lower in 2008 09 through to perpetuity, then the carrying amount would be equal to the recoverable amount.
For other goodwill, value in use calculations have been performed using growth rates and discount factors considered appropriate for the relevant cash-generating units.
Goodwill impairment of 0.8m was included in the IFRS transition balance sheet at 31 January 2004.
A further 1.7m was charged in the year to 31 January 2005.
No impairment has been charged in the income statement for the year to 31 January 2006.
All impairment amounts recognised resulted from adverse trading conditions within the relevant cash generating units.
Other intangibles Other intangibles largely represent amounts paid in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises.
The value in use of these intangibles assets has been calculated using growth rates and discount factors considered appropriate for the relevant cash-generating units.
The carrying amount of the other intangibles with indefinitie useful lives is analysed by business segment as follows: France France UK Darty BUT Comet Other Group m m m m m At 31 January 2006 6.5 2.4 0.1 9.0 At 31 January 2005 6.6 2.4 0.1 9.1 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 65 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 11 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Assets in the Land and fittings and course of buildings equipment construction Total Cost m m m m At 1 February 2005 305.5 545.4 6.6 857.5 Reclassifications 4.0 1.0 5.0 Additions 18.6 79.1 0.1 97.8 Disposals 6.4 35.8 42.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 4.7 4.2 0.1 9.0 At 31 January 2006 317.0 585.5 1.6 904.1 Accumulated of depreciation At 1 February 2005 40.4 294.6 335.0 Reclassifications 2.8 2.8 Impairment 1.3 1.3 Reversal of impairment 0.3 0.8 1.1 Charge for year 10.1 66.1 76.2 Disposals 3.5 31.5 35.0 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.2 2.9 3.1 At 31 January 2006 49.3 324.0 373.3 Net book value At 31 January 2006 267.7 261.5 1.6 530.8 At 31 January 2005 265.1 250.8 6.6 522.5 The cost of fixtures, fittings and equipment includes 5.0m 2005: 4.6m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The related accumulated depreciation at the end of the year was 4.1m 2005: 3.5m.
The cost of land and buildings includes 0.3m 2005: 0.3m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The related accumulated depreciation at the end of the year was 0.2m 2005: 0.2m.
The net book value of land and buildings includes 4.9m in relation to long leaseholds 2005: 9.6m and 0.1m in relation to short leaseholds 2005: 0.1m.
66 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Fixtures, Assets in the Land and fittings and course of buildings equipment construction Total As at 31 January 2005 m m m m Cost At 1 February 2004 292.7 488.6 7.1 788.4 Reclassifications 0.2 2.8 3.0 Transfers to intangible assets 2.9 2.9 Additions 16.8 70.8 5.3 92.9 Disposals 9.0 23.6 32.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 4.8 6.8 0.1 11.7 At 31 January 2005 305.5 545.4 6.6 857.5 Accumulated of depreciation At 1 February 2004 31.2 252.2 283.4 Impairment 0.5 0.9 1.4 Reversal of impairment 0.4 0.4 Charge for year 10.8 61.3 72.1 Disposals 3.2 21.0 24.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.5 1.2 2.7 At 31 January 2005 40.4 294.6 335.0 Net book value At 31 January 2005 265.1 250.8 6.6 522.5 Store impairment Asset impairment reviews are carried out whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
In respect of the Groups stores, impairment testing is performed at the individual store level, based on value in use calculations.
Store impairment of 3.4m was included in the balance sheet at 31 January 2004.
In the year to 31 January 2005, a further 1.4m of store impairment was charged and 0.4m of impairment in respect of previous years was reversed.
In the year to 31 January 2006 store impairment of 1.3m was charged and 1.1m of impairment in respect of previous years was reversed.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 67 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 12 Investments non current Investments Investments in joint venture in associates Total m m m Net assets At 1 February 2005 1.4 35.7 37.1 Adjustment in respect of IAS 39 2.0 2.0 Revised at 1 February 2005 1.4 33.7 35.1 Share of retained profits in year 3.8 4.3 8.1 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 0.7 Dividends received 3.4 3.4 At 31 January 2006 1.8 37.3 39.1 Total Group interest As at 31 January 2006 1.8 37.3 39.1 As at 31 January 2005 1.4 35.7 37.1 Investments Investments in joint venture in associates Total m m m Net assets At 1 February 2004 5.0 27.4 32.4 Additions 3.1 3.1 Share of retained profits in year 5.0 4.8 9.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.4 0.4 Dividends received 8.6 8.6 At 31 January 2005 1.4 35.7 37.1 In relation to the Groups interest in joint venture and associates, the income and expenses were as follows: Joint venture Associates 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Income 17.3 17.6 35.7 37.7 Expense 13.5 12.6 29.2 30.3 Profit before interest and tax 3.8 5.0 6.5 7.4 Interest Tax 2.2 2.6 Share of post-tax results 3.8 5.0 4.3 4.8 68 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 12 Investments non current continued In relation to the Group's interest in the joint venture, the assets and liabilities are shown below: Joint venture Associates 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Current assets 29.4 15.4 350.8 353.3 Current liabilities 27.6 14.0 313.5 317.6 Net assets 1.8 1.4 37.3 35.7 The joint venture has no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed.
There are no significant capital commitments within the joint venture.
The Groups investment in the joint venture, Darty Orange S. A. relates to a company incorporated in France in which the Group has joint control.
The Groups investments in associated undertakings relate to the Groups 50 per cent holding in Menafinance S. A. formerly Crealfi S. A., a company incorporated in France that provides consumer credit services, and the Groups 49.0 per cent holding in Fidem S. A. a company incorporated in France that administers store credit.
Other investments current 2006 2005 m m Other investments 80.5 95.6 Other investments include deposits and investments, comprising deposits with banks which mature after more than three months from the date of inception.
13 Available for sale investments m As at 1 February 2005 Transfer from other investments 5.4 Adjustments in respect of IAS 39 13.9 As at 1 February 2005 revised 19.3 Additions 0.1 Disposals 0.1 Exchange differences 0.3 Net revaluation surplus transferred to equity 1.0 At 31 January 2006 20.0 Non-current 20.0 Listed securities: Equity securities Eurozone 19.1 Unlisted securities: Unlisted securities Eurozone 0.9 Total securities 20.0 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 69 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 13 Available for sale investments continued Comparative information Other investments The Group took advantage of the exemption contained within IFRS 1 and did not adopt the requirements of IAS 32 Financial instruments: disclosures and presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement in the year ended 31 January 2005.
These accounting standards were adopted from 1 February 2005.
The comparative information shown below is based on the UK GAAP disclosure requirements and is shown at cost rather than fair value as above.
m As at 1 February 2004 5.4 Disposals 0.1 Exchange differences 0.1 At 31 January 2005 5.4 Listed securities: Equity securities Eurozone 4.5 Unlisted securities: Unlisted securities Eurozone 0.9 Total securities 5.4 Market value of listed investments 18.0 Investments listed overseas primarily relates to the Groups holding in Go Sport S. A. sports leisurewear and equipment retailer, a company listed and registered in France.
The Group does not exercise any significant influence over the operations of Go Sport S. A. and hence reports its interest as an investment at cost.
Price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on investments held by the Group and classified on the consolidated balance sheet as available for sale at fair value through profit or loss.
14 Inventories 2006 2005 m m Finished goods for resale 616.7 601.0 During the year, 23.0m 2005: 22.1m of inventories were written off and charged to the income statement.
52.1m 2005: 47.1m of inventory is pledged as collateral for liabilities.
70 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 15 Trade and other receivables 2006 2005 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 153.9 161.3 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 9.7 10.8 Net trade receivables 144.2 150.5 Amounts owed by joint venture and associates 2.2 2.1 Other receivables 68.1 66.3 Prepayments and accrued income 30.0 23.4 Total trade and other receivables 244.5 242.3 16 Other receivables 2006 2005 m m Amounts falling due after more than one year: Other receivables 9.7 11.2 Total other receivables 9.7 11.2 17 Cash and cash equivalents 2006 2005 m m Cash at bank and in hand 62.6 60.6 Short-term bank deposit and investments 97.0 215.0 Total 159.6 275.6 For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprised the following at 31 January: 2006 2005 m m Cash at bank and in hand` 62.6 60.6 Bank overdrafts 53.8 90.7 Short-term bank deposit and investments 97.0 215.0 Total cash and cash equivalents 105.8 184.9 The effective interest rate on short-term deposits held at 31 January 2006 was 4.1 per cent 31 January 2005: 4.7 per cent and these deposits had an average maturity of three days.
Of the total deposits and investments, 82.5m 2005: 82.5m is pledged as part of underlying insurance arrangements to meet expected future costs arising from the provision of extended warranty cover.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 71 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 18 Trade and other payables current 2006 2005 m m Trade payables 311.2 260.1 Other tax and social security payable 129.4 136.1 Other payables 105.0 106.7 Accruals 173.7 175.2 Deferred income 96.3 90.7 Obligations under finance leases 0.9 0.6 Total trade and other payables current 816.5 769.4 19 Income tax liabilities 2006 2005 m m Income tax liabilities 11.9 16.3 20 Financial liabilities borrowings 2006 2005 m m Current Bank loans 2.8 45.1 Bank overdrafts 53.8 90.7 Total current 56.6 135.8 Non-current Bank loans 347.0 442.0 Total non-current 347.0 442.0 Bank loans and overdrafts are denominated in a number of currencies and have interest rates based upon LIBOR and EURIBOR.
The Group refinanced its borrowing arrangements in July 2005.
472.6m c689m drawn down on the previous borrowing facility was repaid by drawing down on a new five-year facility.
Within bank loans and overdrafts, an amount of 9.3m 2005: 3.5m is secured over property, stock and other assets.
72 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 20 Financial liabilities borrowings continued The exposure of the Group to interest rate changes when borrowings reprice is as follows: Within One to Afer Total one year five years five years 2006 m m m m At 31 January 2006 Total borrowings 399.5 3.2 0.9 403.6 399.5 3.2 0.9 403.6 At 31 January 2006, the Group had in place 341.6m of floating to fixed interest rate swaps that were closed out in February 2006.
These are shown as a current derivative financial liability.
Within One to After Total one year five years five years 2005 m m m m At 31 January 2005 Total borrowings 571.9 4.3 1.6 577.8 Effect of interest rate swaps original expiry date 30 January 2007 346.7 346.7 225.2 351.0 1.6 577.8 Borowings for which the rates were fixed for at least one year but for which the fixed rate will expire either before or after five years.
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: 2006 2005 %% Bank loans 3.2 3.9 The carrying amount of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2006 2005 m m Pound sterling 49.9 87.3 Euro 353.7 490.5 403.6 577.8 21 Other non-current payables 2006 2005 m m Obligations under finance leases 1.9 3.5 Accruals 19.9 19.9 Deferred income 198.2 196.8 Other payables 18.7 18.8 Total other non-current payables 238.7 239.0 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 73 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 22 Financial instruments Group The Group took advantage of the exemption contained within IFRS 1 and did not adopt the requirements of IAS 32 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement in the year ended 31 January 2005.
The comparative information shown below is based on the FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures required under UK GAAP.
Numerical financial instrument disclosures are set out below, together with an explanation of the Groups financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies.
Treasury policy Kesa Group treasury manages liquidity and exposure to funding, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks.
The Group treasury uses a combination of derivative and conventional financial instruments to manage these underlying financial risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of Board-approved policies and guidelines, which are recommended and monitored by the Treasury Committee.
These guidelines include bank exposure limits and hedge cover levels for each of the key areas of treasury risk.
The Board and Treasury Committee receive monthly reports of the activities of Group treasury.
The main elements of treasury activity to manage relevant financial risks are outlined below: Currency risk The Group publishes its financial statements in sterling and conducts business in several foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange movements affecting the Groups sterling transaction costs, and the translation of results and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Group hedges a substantial proportion of its exposure to fluctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign currency net assets by holding net borrowings in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net borrowings held in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are recognised in the income statement.
The Group adopts a centralised approach to foreign exchange risk management.
No foreign exchange transaction may be undertaken without the permission of Group treasury, which is responsible for all hedging transactions.
Any foreign exchange transaction must be demonstrably linked to an underlying exposure and the hedge must be continually monitored through the life of the transaction to ensure it remains effective and appropriate.
The treasury policy requires that all transactional foreign exchange risk must be hedged, up to 12 months forward, using forward exchange contracts.
The gain or loss on the hedge is recognised at the same time as the underlying transaction.
Interest rate risk The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk on its primary credit facility and manages this exposure using interest rates swaps.
The treasury policy requires that at least 50 per cent, but no more than 100 per cent of borrowings in the Group must be fixed.
Credit risk Several major financial institutions are counterparties to the interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and deposits transacted by the Group.
These transactions are only entered into with counterparties with a long-term credit rating of A or better.
The treasury department monitors its credit exposure to its counterparties on a monthly basis, together with their credit ratings.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
74 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 22 Financial instruments continued Liquidity risk The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and short-term committed facilities that are designed to ensure the Group has sufficient available funds for operations and planned expenditure.
Net fair values of derivative financial instruments The net fair values of derivative financial instruments and designated cash flow hedges at the balance sheet date were: Assets Liabilities At 31 January 2006 m m Interest rate swaps cash flow hedge 0.8 Forward foreign currency contracts cash flow hedge 0.1 Foreign currency swap 0.1 Embedded derivatives 0.1 Options over shares in Group undertakings 1.4 1.8 1.4 2.9 Current portion 1.4 2.9 Options over shares in Group undertakings The fair value of options over shares in Group undertakings have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year-end exchange rates.
The fair values of these financial assets and liabilities have not changed since 1 February 2005, and hence there is no charge credit in the income statement during the year in relation to these options.
Hedges Cash flow hedges The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge expected future purchases in US dollars for which the Group has firm commitments.
The contracts typically cover periods of less than six months.
The forward currency contracts are being used to hedge the foreign currency risk of the firm commitments.
Where cash flow hedges on forward foreign currency contracts are assessed to be effective, the movement in the fair value is taken to the hedging reserve within equity.
The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated by marking the contracts to market using prevailing forward exchange rates.
At 31 January 2006, a net unrealised loss of 0.1m with a related deferred tax asset was included within equity in respect of these contracts.
At 31 January 2006, the value of future US dollar purchases hedged was $44.7m.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 75 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 22 Financial instruments continued Interest rate swaps The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 January 2006 was c500m.
At 31 January 2006, the fixed interest rate on the swaps was 3.15 per cent and floating rates were 2.54 per cent, and they expire in October 2007.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting the future cash flows at prevailing market rates.
Where the hedge on the interest rate swap is assessed to be effective, the movement in the fair value is taken to the hedging reserve within equity.
At 31 January, a net unrealised loss of 0.8m with a related deferred tax asset of 0.2m was included within equity in respect of the interest rate swap.
In February 2006, the swaps were closed out and an amount of 0.8m before tax was reversed from equity and charged to the income statement within interest payable.
c300m of floating to fixed interest rate swaps were subsequently taken out in February 2006 with a fixed interest rate of 3.16 per cent and an expiry date of February 2009.
Maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 January 2006 is as follows: Within one One to two Two to three Three to four Four to five More than year years years years years five years Total m m m m m m m Fixed rate Current asset investments 78.7 78.7 Bank loans 1.6 1.3 0.6 0.7 0.9 0.8 5.9 Finance leases 0.9 0.5 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.4 2.8 Interest rate swaps 0.8 0.8 Floating rate Cash 62.6 62.6 Current asset investments 98.8 98.8 Bank overdrafts 53.8 53.8 Bank loans 1.2 1.0 0.4 0.4 341.0 0.1 344.1 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Current asset investments are made for varying periods of up to 12 months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term LIBOR or EURIBOR deposit rates.
Of the total current asset investments of 177.5m, 80.5m are included within other current investments and 97.5m within cash and cash equivalents.
Currency exposures The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of the currency exposures arising from its net investments overseas by borrowing as far as possible in the same currencies as the operating currencies of its operating units.
The tables below show the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than their functional currency.
Financial assets and liabilities denominated in the same functional currency as the entity have been excluded from the tables.
76 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 22 Financial instruments continued Post-hedging Functional currency of entity Net foreign currency financial asset liability principal currency Euro US $ Total m m m Sterling 3.0 12.0 15.0 Euro 0.9 0.9 CzK 0.1 0.1 Total 3.1 12.9 16.0 The amounts shown in the table above are after taking into account the Groups forward foreign currency contracts, such that any financial asset or liability that is hedged by a forward foreign currency contract is excluded from the table.
Pre-hedging Functional currency of entity Net foreign currency financial asset liability principal currency Euro US $ Total m m m Sterling 3.0 3.9 0.9 Euro 0.3 0.3 CzK 0.1 0.1 Total 3.1 3.6 0.5 The amounts shown in the table above are before taking into account the Groups forward foreign currency contracts, and all foreign currency financial assets and liabilities are included within the table.
Fair value of non-current borrowings 2006 Book value Fair value m m Long-term borrowings note 20 347.0 347.3 Fair value of other non-current financial assets and liabilities Primary financial instruments held to finance the Groups operations: Financial assets: Available for sale investments note 13 20.0 20.0 Other receivables note 16 9.7 9.7 Financial liabilities: Other payables note 21 238.7 238.7 Provisions note 23 0.5 0.5 The carrying amounts of current assets and liabilities approximate to fair value.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 77 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 22 Financial instruments continued Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 January in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: Floating rate Fixed rate 2006 Total m m m Expiring within one year 204.9 204.9 204.9 204.9 The facilities are subject to review at various dates.
The Group has an unconditional option to extend the undrawn facility to July 2010.
Obligations under finance leases: 2006 2005 m m The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows Not later than one year 1.1 1.1 Later than one year but not more than five 1.7 2.8 More than five years 0.5 0.8 Future finance charges on finance leases 0.5 0.6 Present value of finance lease liabilities 2.8 4.1 The effective interest rate on debt during the year was 3.2 per cent 2005: 3.9 per cent.
The effective interest rate on finance leases during the year was 10.0 per cent 2005: 10.9 per cent.
At 1 February 2004, the transition date to IFRS, an amount of 1.4m was reclassified from operating leases to finance leases with a corresponding increase in property, plant and equipment and finance lease obligations.
Comparative information year ended 31 January 2005 The comparative information shown below is based on FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures required under UK GAAP.
78 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 22 Financial instruments continued Interest rate and currency profile of gross financial assets Fixed-rate assets Non-interest bearing Weighted Weighted average average time interest rate for which Weighted Floating-rate Fixed-rate on fixed-rate rate is Non-interestaverage time Total assets assets assets assets fixed bearing assets until maturity m m m % Years m Years At 31 January 2005 Sterling 253.6 104.0 137.8 4.7 11.8 Euro 131.0 74.4 56.6 Other 3.2 2.7 0.5 Gross assets 387.8 181.1 137.8 4.7 68.9 Of which: Fixed asset investments 5.4 Debtors due after more than one year 11.2 Current asset investments 310.6 Cash at bank and in hand 60.6 387.8 The floating-rate financial assets have interest rates based on LIBOR and EURIBOR, fixed for periods of up to 12 months.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from the above analysis.
Interest rate and currency profile of gross financial liabilities Fixed-rate liabilities Non-interest bearing Weighted Weighted average average time interest rate for which Weighted Floating-rate Fixed-rate on fixed-rate rate is Non-interestaverage time Total liabilities liabilities liabilities fixed bearing liabilities until maturity m m m % Years m Years At 31 January 2005 Sterling 104.2 0.3 10.9 103.9 Euro 501.4 142.6 353.9 3.9 2.7 4.9 Other Gross liabilities 605.6 142.6 354.2 3.9 2.7 108.8 Of which: Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year excluding capitalised loan issue costs of 0.7m 136.5 Obligations under finance leases less than one year 0.6 External funding due after more than one year excluding capitalised loan issue costs of 1.8m 443.8 Obligations under finance leases more than one year 3.5 Other accruals due after more than one year 19.9 Onerous property contracts 1.3 605.6 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 79 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 22 Financial instruments continued The floating-rate financial liabilities have interest rates based upon LIBOR and EURIBOR, fixed for periods of up to 12 months.
Maturity of financial liabilities The maturity of the Groups gross financial liabilities is as follows: 2005 m Within one year 137.1 Between one and two years 89.8 Between two and five years 377.1 After five years 1.6 605.6 Borrowing facilities At 31 January 2005, the Group had borrowing facilities amounting to 693.5m of which 173.4m were undrawn.
The maturity of the undrawn facility falls between two and five years.
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is a year-end comparison of fair and book values of all the Groups significant financial instruments by category.
Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values.
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest and exchange rates.
2005 Book value Fair value m m Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations Fixed-asset investments 5.4 18.9 Long-term borrowings 442.0 442.3 436.6 423.4 Derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate and currency profile Interest rate swaps 4.8 Forward foreign currency contracts 0.2 5.0 There are no material differences between the book and fair values of the Groups other financial assets and liabilities.
80 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 22 Financial instruments continued Hedges Unrecognised gains and losses on instruments used for hedging and those recognised in the period ended 31 January 2005 are as follows: Gains Losses Net total m m m Total unrecognised gains at beginning of year 1.7 1.7 Gains recognised in the year relating to prior year 1.1 1.1 Gains not recognised in the year relating to prior years 0.6 0.6 Reclassification between gains and losses 0.6 0.6 Losses not recognised in the year relating to current year 5.6 5.6 Total unrecognised gains at end of year 5.0 5.0 Of which: Due to be recognised within one year 0.2 0.2 Due to be recognised after one year 4.8 4.8 5.0 5.0 23 Provisions 2006 2005 m m At 1 February 2005 1.3 2.2 Utilised during the year 0.2 0.9 At 31 January 2006 1.1 1.3 Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Current 0.6 0.5 Non-current 0.5 0.8 Total 1.1 1.3 Provisions relate to onerous property contracts.
The Group has provided against future liabilities for all properties sublet at a shortfall and long-term idle properties.
The provision is based on the value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates and service charges.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 81 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 24 Deferred tax Group Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using tax rates applicable to the country in which they originate.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets to the extent they are regarded as recoverable in the forseeable future.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the period are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net: Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated capital Fair value allowances adjustments Other Total m m m m At 1 February 2005 34.9 6.4 41.3 Adjustments in respect of IAS 39 2.2 2.2 At 1 February 2005 revised 34.9 2.2 6.4 43.5 Income statement charge credit 0.8 2.6 1.8 Tax credited charged to equity 0.9 0.3 0.6 Exchange adjustments 0.4 0.1 0.5 At 31 January 2006 33.7 1.3 9.2 44.2 Deferred tax assets Fair value adjustments Tax losses Pensions Other Total m m m m m At 1 February 2005 2.2 32.0 17.0 51.2 Adjustments in respect of IAS 39 3.0 3.0 At 1 February 2005 revised 3.0 2.2 32.0 17.0 54.2 Income statement charge credit 1.0 2.0 3.7 0.7 Tax charged credited to equity 1.2 4.4 0.3 2.9 Exchange adjustments 0.2 0.2 At 31 January 2006 1.8 3.2 38.2 13.2 56.4 82 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 24 Deferred tax continued The deferred tax assets are not fully available for offset against the deferred tax liabilities, and this gives rise to the following amounts disclosed in the balance sheet: 2006 2005 m m Deferred tax assets as above 56.4 51.2 Offset against deferred tax liabilities 17.8 16.5 Deferred tax assets 38.6 34.7 Deferred tax liabilities as above 44.2 41.3 Reduced by deferred tax assets 17.8 16.5 Deferred tax liabilities 26.4 24.8 The deferred tax asset recoverable after more than one year is 56.4m 2005: 51.2m and the deferred tax liability due after more than one year is 44.2m 2005: 41.3m.
As at 31 January 2006, the Group had foreign tax losses amounting to approximately 20.0m 2005: 10.0m on which a deferred tax asset of 3.2m 2005: 2.2m has been recognised.
There is uncertainty over the recoverability of the remaining losses, as it is not probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits in the foreseeable future.
25 Called up share capital 2006 2005 Number of Number of ordinary ordinary shares shares m m m m Authorised Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 1,000 250.0 1,000 250.0 Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 529.6 132.4 529.6 132.4 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 83 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 26 Retained earnings Retained earnings m At 1 February 2005 584.5 Adjustment for first time adoption of IAS 39 5.3 Restated balance at 1 February 2005 589.8 Profit for the year 94.2 Dividends 59.3 Employee share schemes 0.3 Investment in ESOP shares 0.5 Net actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations 10.2 At 31 January 2006 565.3 Retained earnings Year ended 31 January 2005 m At 1 February 2004 634.2 Profit for the year 115.7 Dividends 54.4 Employee share schemes 0.5 Net actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations 12.1 At 31 January 2005 584.5 27 Other reserves Available for sale Total Demerger Translation investments Hedging other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves m m m m m At 1 February 2005 741.8 0.5 741.3 Adjustment for first time adoption of IAS 39 11.7 3.5 8.2 Restated balance at 1 February 2005 741.8 0.5 11.7 3.5 749.5 Exchange differences 2.5 2.5 Available for sale assets fair value gains net of tax 2.3 2.3 recycled and reported in net profit 0.3 0.3 Cash flow hedges fair value gains net of tax 2.8 2.8 recycled and reported in net profit At 31 January 2006 741.8 3.0 13.7 0.7 751.8 84 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 27 Other reserves continued Total Demerger Translation other reserve reserve reserves Year ended 31 January 2005 m m m Group At 1 February 2004 741.8 741.8 Exchange differences 0.5 0.5 At 31 January 2005 741.8 0.5 741.3 The demerger reserve represents a reserve created on demerger and is non-distributable.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations on consolidation are included within the Translation reserve.
Cumulative translation differences on foreign operations are deemed to be zero at the transition date of 1 February 2004.
Any gains and losses recognised in the consolidation income statement on subsequent disposal of foreign operations will therefore exclude translation differences arising prior to the transition date.
The available for sale investments reserve include movements, net of deferred tax, in the fair value of available for sale investments.
On disposal of the investment, the amount taken through the reserve is recycled out to the income statement.
The movement in the fair value of cash flow hedges, net of deferred tax, which are deemed to be effective is taken through the Hedging reserve.
On expiry of the cash flow hedge, the amount in the hedge reserve is recycled out.
If a hedge is deemed ineffective, the amount in the Hedging reserve is immediately recycled out to the income statement.
28 Statement of changes in shareholders equity 2006 2005 m m Profit attributable to shareholders 94.2 115.7 Dividends 59.3 54.4 Exchange differences 2.5 0.5 Employee share schemes 0.3 0.5 Available for sale assets fair value gains net of tax 2.3 recycled and reported in net profit 0.3 Cash flow hedges fair value gains net of tax 2.8 recycled and reported in net profit Investment in ESOP shares 0.5 Net actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations 10.2 12.1 Opening shareholders equity before adjustment for IAS 39 289.2 240.0 Adjustment for first time adoption of IAS 39 2.9 Closing shareholders equity 318.9 289.2 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 85 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 29 Minority interest 2006 2005 m m At beginning of the year 11.9 10.9 Acquisitions 0.2 Profit for the year 0.5 1.5 Dividend paid 0.9 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 At end of the year 11.3 11.9 30 Cash flow from operating activities 2006 2005 m m Profit after tax 94.7 117.2 Adjustments for: Tax 50.8 63.3 Depreciation and amortisation 78.6 74.6 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 1.3 1.4 Reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment 1.1 0.4 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment including write offs 2.0 1.9 Impairment of goodwill 1.7 Interest income 7.8 10.5 Interest expense 24.4 24.1 Share of results of joint venture before taxation 3.8 5.0 Share of results of associates before taxation 6.5 7.4 Changes in working capital: Increase in inventories 20.6 22.3 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 3.8 24.4 Increase in payables 51.5 8.2 Net cash inflow from operating activities 259.7 271.2 Tax includes joint venture and associates tax of 2.2m 2005: 2.6m.
86 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 31 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Transfers and other At 31 January Exchange non-cash At 1 February 2006 Cash flow difference movements 2005 m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 62.6 3.6 1.6 60.6 Overdrafts 53.8 36.6 0.3 90.7 Short-term deposits and investments 97.0 115.9 2.1 215.0 105.8 75.7 3.4 184.9 Borrowings falling due within one year 2.8 41.5 0.8 45.1 Borrowings falling due after one year 347.0 88.4 6.6 442.0 Finance leases 2.8 1.7 0.1 0.5 4.1 352.6 131.6 7.5 0.5 491.2 Other current investments 80.5 14.1 1.0 95.6 Total 166.3 41.8 3.1 0.5 210.7 Transfers and other At 31 January Exchange non-cash At 1 February 2005 Cash flow difference movements 2004 m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 60.6 3.2 1.0 62.8 Overdrafts 90.7 11.1 0.2 21.1 100.5 Short-term deposits and investments 215.0 26.4 4.6 184.0 184.9 12.1 5.4 21.1 146.3 Borrowings falling due within one year 45.1 1.9 0.8 21.1 25.1 Borrowings falling due after one year 442.0 44.0 5.7 480.3 Finance leases 4.1 1.4 0.3 5.2 491.2 47.3 6.5 21.4 510.6 Other current investments 95.6 2.8 2.0 90.8 Total 210.7 62.2 0.9 0.3 273.5 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 87 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 32 Reconciliation of cash flow to movement in net debt 2006 2005 m m Net cash outflow inflow from cash and cash equivalents 75.7 12.1 Cash outflow from increase in borrowings and lease financing 131.6 47.3 Cash outflow inflow from decrease in other current investments 14.1 2.8 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 41.8 62.2 Translation differences 3.1 0.9 New finance leases 0.5 0.3 Movement in net debt in the year 44.4 62.8 Net debt at start of year 210.7 273.5 Net debt at end of year 166.3 210.7 33 Acquisitions The book value of assets acquired approximated to fair value.
A financial summary of these transactions is as follows: Fair value to the Group 2006 2005 Subsidiaries  Total m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 1.1 1.1 Inventory 0.3 0.3 1.2 1.2 Trade and other receivables 3.1 0.2 3.3 Trade and other payables 2.3 2.3 Total fair value of net assets acquired 0.3 0.3 3.1 0.2 3.3 Goodwill arising 2006 2005 Subsidiaries Total Associates Subsidiaries Total m m m m m Cash consideration 0.4 0.4 1.4 1.4 2.8 Net assets acquired 0.3 0.3 3.1 0.2 3.3 Goodwill 0.1 0.1 1.7 1.2 0.5 88 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 34 Employees and Directors 2006 2005 m m Staff costs for the Group during the year Wages and salaries 448.2 436.5 Social security costs 120.0 116.6 Other pension costs 19.1 18.2 Total staff costs 587.3 571.4 2006 2005 Number Number Average monthly number of people including Executive Directors employed Stores 18,960 18,248 Distribution 7,438 7,368 Administration 2,779 2,700 Total average headcount 29,177 28,316 2006 2005 m m Executive Directors Salaries and taxable benefits 0.8 0.8 Bonuses 0.1 0.4 Pension contributions 0.1 0.1 Share-based payments 0.7 0.6 Non-Executive Directors Fees 0.3 0.3 Total 2.0 2.2 2006 2005 m m Key management compensation Salaries and short-term employee benefits 4.3 4.4 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.5 Share-based payments 2.0 2.3 Total 6.8 7.2 Key management includes the Board of Directors and members of the Kesa Executive Committee.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 89 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 35 Share-based payments At present the Group has four share award plans: 1 The Demerger Award Plan 2 The Kesa Group Incentive Compensation Plan 3 The Long-Term Incentive Plan 4 Kesa Share Incentive Plan Details of the significant share award plans are shown below.
1 The Demerger Award Plan The Demerger Award Plan DAP was desgined to ensure executives interests were aligned with those of shareholders, and to reflect the lost opportunity to participate in the 2002 and 2003 Kingfisher Option Awards.
In addition, executives would face a financial penalty if they left the Group in the three-year period following the demerger.
The awards vest in three equal instalments.
One half of the award is subject to the total shareholder return TSR performance criteria.
TSR is a measure of performance based on share price and dividends.
To achieve the hurdle, the TSR must outperform the FTSE 250.
The remaining 50 per cent is not subject to performance criteria.
The TSR is measured from the date of grant to the appropriate exercise date.
The rights granted to executives under the terms of the DAP are as follows: Kesa shares 2006 2005 Number Number Outstanding at 1 February 2005 2004 3,557,894 5,634,973 Granted during year Forfeited during year 904,599 215,449 Exercised during year 860,612 1,861,630 Expired during year Outstanding at 31 January 2006 2005 1,792,683 3,557,894 The fair value of shares granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Grant date 28 July 2003 Share price at grant date 2.075 Exercise price 0.00 Number of employees 142 Number of shares in scheme 5,634,973 Vesting period years 3 years Option life years 3.5 years Expected life years 3 years The shares within the DAP are nil cost options or free shares.
90 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 35 Share-based payments continued 2 Kesa Group Incentive Compensation Plan The awards granted pursuant to the Kesa Group Incentive Compensation Plan replaced awards made under various Kingfisher incentive plans.
Awards provide a cash element representing a deferred bonus and a matching award in respect of a combination of Kingfisher shares and Kesa shares having a value equal to the shares under award under the relevant Kingfisher incentive plan allowing for the effect of the demerger and the Kingfisher share consolidation.
The value of the awards is based on the respective closing share prices of Kingfisher and Kesa shares following the announcement of their full-year results for the years ending 31 January 2004, 2005 and 2006.
Participants would then be receive their share and cash entitlement on 1 April 2004, 2005 and 2006 respectively.
For the year ended 31 January 2005, the awards were based on the closing price of Kingfisher shares on 17 March 2005, which was 295.5 pence per share and the Kesa share price on 23 March 2005, which was 299 pence per share.
The rights to Kesa and Kingfisher shares granted to executives under the terms of this plan are as follows: Kesa shares Kingfisher shares 2006 2005 2006 2005 Number Number Number Number Outstanding at 1 February 2005 2004 61,025 87,024 273,515 387,259 Granted during year Forfeited during year Exercised during year 36,001 25,999 164,035 113,744 Expired during year Outstanding at 31 January 2006 2005 25,024 61,025 109,480 273,515 Award date 1 April 2003 1 April 2002 1 April 2003 1 April 2002 Exercise price 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Number of employees 5 14 5 14 Number of shares in scheme 25,024 61,025 109,480 273,515 Vesting date 1 April 2006 1 April 2005 1 April 2006 1 April 2005 Vesting period 2002 scheme years 0.2 years 0.2 years Expected life 2002 scheme years 0.2 years 0.2 years Vesting period 2003 scheme years 0.2 years 1.2 years 0.2 years 1.2 years Expected life 2003 scheme years 0.2 years 1.2 years 0.2 years 1.2 years Deferred bonus outstanding at 31 January 2006 2005 m 0.6 1.7 The shares within the KIP are nil cost options or free shares.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 91 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 35 Share-based payments continued 3 Long-Term Incentive Plan The Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP was approved at the Annual General Meeting in May 2004, and the nil cost options were granted in May 2005.
The LTIP consists of two elements: The first element is the grant of a matching award of shares.
Following determination of the bonus for 2004 05, the Group calculated the number of investment shares that participants would receive by dividing half of the bonus post a notional tax rate for French employees, half of bonus before tax was used by the share price on 23 March 2005 2.99.
Participants were then granted a maximum matching award of shares on a ratio of 1:1 based on the gross value of the investment shares received.
The number of matching shares that vest will depend on Kesas TSR performance compared to the TSR performance of the companies in the FTSE 250 measured over the four-year period from grant date.
If Kesas TSR performance is at the mid point of the FTSE 250, then 25 per cent of the matching shares will vest.
For 100 per cent of the matching shares to vest, Kesas TSR performance must be in the top quarter of the companies in the FTSE 250, and there is a sliding scale between this and the mid point.
The second element is a Performance Share Plan PSP, which only applies to senior employees who are part of the LTIP.
There is a base award equal to 30 per cent of the eligible executives basic salary, and the award would normally be made irrespective of any achievement of Group or operating company bonus targets or overall Group financial performance.
The PSP is intended to both build a shareholding and reward individual performance as opposed to corporate performance.
An eligible executive may also receive up to a further 20 per cent based on each individuals personal performance and contribution to the Group rather than on any specific financial metrics.
All awards under the PSP are subject to the same TSR performance hurdle as that applying to the vesting of the matching shares under the bonus scheme set out above.
The fair value of shares within the scheme were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model.
The fair value of shares granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Grant date 22 May 2005 Share price at grant date 2.70 Exercise price 0.00 Number of employees 21 Number of shares in scheme 500,307 Vesting period years 4 years Expected volatility 22% Option life years N A Expected life years 4 years Risk-free rate 4.34% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 4% Fair value of shares 1.31 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility since 7 July 2003, when Kesa demerged and listed.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
92 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 35 Share-based payments continued 3 Long-Term Incentive Plan continued A reconciliaiton of option movements over the year to 31 January 2006 is shown below: 2006 Weighted average exercise price Number Outstanding at 1 February 2005 Granted during year 500,307 Forfeited during year Exercised during year Expired during year Outstanding at 31 January 2006 500,307 Exercisable at 31 January 2006 2006 Range of Weighted Weighted average remaining life exercise average Number of prices exercise price shares Expected Contractual 500,307 3.3 years 3.3 years The shares within the LTIP are nil cost options or free shares.
Approval will be sought at the forthcoming AGM to amend the LTIP and PSP.
The first grants were made under these plans in May 2005 relating to performances for the year ended 31 January 2005, but there was a low take up, and the Remuneration Committee felt that the original objectives and intentions behind the schemes were not being met.
Details of these proposed changes are shown in the Report on Directors remuneration and related matters.
Based on managements latest forecasts and assumptions, an amount has been included in the income statement and balance sheet representing the revised LTIP and PSP for the performance year ending 31 January 2006.
The total charge for the year relating to all of the above employee share-based payment plans, all of which are equity settled schemes, was 2.5m 2005: 4.9m.
After deferred tax, the total charge was 1.6m 2005: 3.2m.
The associated employers social security accrual at 31 January 2006 is 1.3m 2005: 1.6m Kesa Employee Share Trust The Group operates an employee share trust, the Kesa Employee Share Trust the Trust, that owns 92,876 ordinary shares of 25 pence in Kesa Electicals plc at 31 January 2006 2005: nil, acquired at an average cost of 2.70 and included in the balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of 0.3m 2005: nil.
The shares are used to satisfy LTIP share option exercises, and the purchases are funded by cash contributions from participating companies.
Dividends receivable during the year have been waived.
The administration expenses of the Trust are borne by the Trust.
Shares will be allocated by the Trust when relevant options under the scheme are excercised.
The market value of the shares at 31 January 2006 was 0.2m 2005: nil.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 93 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 35 Share-based payments continued 3 Long-Term Incentive Plan continued Kesa Share Incentive Plan The Group also operates an employee share plan, the Kesa Share Incentive Plan the Plan, that owns 92,870 ordinary shares of 25 pence in Kesa Electricals plc at 31 January 2006 2005: nil acquired at an average cost of 2.58 and included in the balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of 0.2m 2005: nil.
The shares are used to satisfy Kesa Share Incentive Plan option exercises, and the purchases are funded by cash contributions from participating companies.
The administration expenses of the Plan are borne by the Plan.
Shares will be allocated by the Plan after four years when the relevant options under the scheme can be exercised.
The market value of the shares at 31 January was 0.2m 2005: nil.
36 Pension commitments In France, the main pension benefits are provided through the state system.
The Group is also required to pay lump sums retirement indemnities to employees when they retire from service.
In addition, the Group provides a supplementary funded, defined benefit plan Supplementary Pension Plan for its top executives.
In the UK, the Group operates a defined benefit scheme the Comet Pension Scheme, which was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2004.
All employees who do not participate in the Comet Pension Scheme are offered access to a Group defined contribution scheme.
Pension costs for defined contribution schemes are as follows: 2006 2005 UK France Other Total UK France Other Total m m m m m m m m Defined contribution schemes 0.7 1.0 1.7 0.7 0.8 1.5 A qualified, independent actuary has updated the actuarial valuations of the Groups defined benefit schemes in the UK and France as at 31 January 2006.
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were: 2006 2005 UK France UK France %% %% Discount rate 4.6 3.5 4.0 5.2 4.5 4.75 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 4.75 2.5 4.6 2.5 3.0 Rate of pension increases 2.8 2.7 Price inflation 3.0 2.0 2.9 2.0 Expected return on plan assets: Insurance policies 4.5 5.0 Equities 7.1 7.0 7.6 7.5 Bonds 4.25 4.0 4.9 4.25 Cash 4.5 3.0 4.8 3.0 Real estate 7.1 5.0 7.6 5.5 Other 7.1 3.0 7.6 3.0 94 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 36 Pension commitments continued The expected returns on plan assets are based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for returns over the entire life of the benefit obligation.
Expected yields on fixed-interest investments are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date.
Expected returns on equity and real estate investments reflect long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets.
For the UK scheme, the Group has used PA92 tables with mortality projected to 2005 for pensioners and to 2015 for non-pensioners.
For the French schemes, the Group has used TPRV93 tables for pensioners and INSEE TD9901 tables for non-pensioners.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 2006 2005 UK France Total UK France Total m m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 280.6 39.4 320.0 227.1 40.0 267.1 Fair value of plan assets 185.9 15.3 201.2 146.0 14.5 160.5 Unrecognised prior service costs 0.9 0.9 3.2 3.2 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 94.7 25.0 119.7 81.1 22.3 103.4 The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2006 2005 UK France UK France %% %% Equities 42 15 76 15 Bonds 39 61 18 61 Cash 1 1 3 1 Insurance policies 19 19 Real estate 13 3 3 Other 5 1 31 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2006 2005 UK France Total UK France Total m m m m m m Current service cost 12.7 2.2 14.9 12.7 2.0 14.7 Interest cost 12.0 1.7 13.7 10.5 1.4 11.9 Expected return on plan assets 10.0 0.7 10.7 9.3 0.8 10.1 Amortisation of unrecognised prior service cost 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.2 Total included within staff costs note 34 14.7 2.7 17.4 13.9 2.8 16.7 Of the total charge, 1.8m 2005: 2.0m, 9.7m 2005: 9.2m and 4.6m 2005: 5.2m were included in cost of sales, administrative expenses and selling expenses respectively.
Scheme administration expenses have been netted off against the expected return on plan assets.
A salary sacrifice scheme was introduced in respect of the UK plan on 1 July 2005.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 95 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 36 Pension commitments continued Analysis of the movement in the defined benefit obligation during the year.
2006 2005 UK France Total UK France Total m m m m m m Defined benefit obligation at start of year 227.1 40.0 267.1 184.7 31.8 216.5 Current service cost 12.7 2.2 14.9 12.7 2.0 14.7 Unrecognised prior service cost 4.6 4.6 0.2 0.2 Interest cost 12.0 1.7 13.7 10.5 1.4 11.9 Contributions by employees 1.5 1.5 3.0 3.0 Benefits paid 4.4 0.5 4.9 3.2 1.9 5.1 Actuarial loss recognised in the SORIE 31.7 1.2 32.9 19.4 5.9 25.3 Currency translation movement 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 Defined benefit obligation at end of year 280.6 39.4 320.0 227.1 40.0 267.1 Analysis of the movement in plan assets during the year.
2006 2005 UK France Total UK France Total m m m m m m Fair value of plan assets at start of year 146.0 14.5 160.5 120.9 15.0 135.9 Expected return on plan assets 10.0 0.7 10.7 9.3 0.8 10.1 Contributions by employer 14.6 0.7 15.3 8.2 0.6 8.8 Contributions by employees 1.5 1.5 3.0 3.0 Benefits paid 4.4 0.5 4.9 3.2 1.9 5.1 Actuarial gain loss recognised in the SORIE 18.2 0.1 18.3 7.8 0.2 7.6 Currency translation movement 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 185.9 15.3 201.2 146.0 14.5 160.5 Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet liability during the year.
2006 2005 UK France Total UK France Total m m m m m m Liability at start of year 81.1 22.3 103.4 63.8 13.6 77.4 Total expense as above 14.7 2.7 17.4 13.9 2.8 16.7 Contributions paid 14.6 0.7 15.3 8.2 0.6 8.8 Actuarial loss recognised in the SORIE 13.5 1.1 14.6 11.6 6.1 17.7 Currency translation movement 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Liability at end of year 94.7 25.0 119.7 81.1 22.3 103.4 96 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 36 Pension commitments continued Analysis of the balance sheet liability between funded and unfunded plans.
2006 2005 UK France Total UK France Total m m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 280.6 34.9 315.5 227.1 36.0 263.1 Fair value of plan assets 185.9 15.3 201.2 146.0 14.5 160.5 Present value of unfunded obligations 4.5 4.5 4.0 4.0 Unrecognised past service costs 0.9 0.9 3.2 3.2 Net liability 94.7 25.0 119.7 81.1 2.3 103.4 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity.
2006 2005 UK France Total UK France Total mmmmmm At beginning of year 11.6 6.1 17.7 Net actuarial losses recognised in the year 13.5 1.1 14.6 11.6 6.1 17.7 At end of year 25.1 7.2 32.3 11.6 6.1 17.7 The actual returns on plan assets were: 2006 2005 UK France Total UK France Total m m m m m m 28.2 0.8 29.0 17.1 0.6 17.7 History of experience gains and losses.
2006 2005 UK France Total UK France Total m m m m m m Experience gains losses arising on scheme assets: Amount 18.2 0.1 18.3 7.8 0.2 7.6 Percentage of scheme assets 10% 1% 9% 5% 1% 5% Experience gains losses arising on defined benefit obligation: Amount 8.9 2.4 11.3 1.8 4.8 6.6 Percentage of the present value of defined benefit obligation 3% 6% 4% 1% 12% 2% Present value of scheme liabilities 280.6 39.4 320.0 227.1 40.0 267.1 Fair value of scheme assets 185.9 15.3 201.2 146.0 14.5 160.5 Deficit 94.7 24.1 118.8 81.1 25.5 106.6 The contribution expected to be paid during the financial year ended 31 January 2007 amounts to 14.1m for the UK and 0.1m for France.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 97 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 37 Operating lease commitments 2006 2005 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant & plant & Property equipment Property equipment m m m m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 6.0 2.5 6.7 2.8 Later than one year and less than five years 109.4 46.8 81.5 38.7 After five years 1,131.2 3.8 1,138.8 3.7 Total 1,246.6 53.1 1,227.0 45.2 The Group leases various stores, head offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have various terms, escalation changes and renewal rights.
The Group also leases vehicles, plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
Sublease commitments minimum lease receipts 2006 2005 Property Property m m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 0.2 0.3 Later than one year and less than five years 2.0 4.3 After five years 22.2 22.5 Total 24.4 27.1 The Group sub-leases unutilised stores and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
38 Contingent liabilities The Directors are not aware of any material contingent liabilities other than the following: Avantage S. A. an electrical applicances retailer, has brought a claim against Darty on the basis that the difficulties it has encountered in establishing commercial relationships with suppliers are as a result of alleged cartels between retailers, including Darty and suppliers of electricals goods.
The potential value and timing of any liability arising from this dispute is currently uncertain.
98 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 39 Capital and other financial commitments 2006 2005 m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for: Group property, plant and equipment 5.8 11.3 intangible assets 0.1 Total 5.9 11.3 40 Related party transactions Transactions carried out with related parties in the normal course of business are summarised below.
Joint venture and associates The Group has several joint venture and associated undertaking relationships.
The nature of the transactions between the Group and these companies and the total values of the transactions is summarised below: 2006 2005 m m Dividends receivable 3.4 8.6 The year-end balance with joint ventures and associated undertakings are: Amounts owed from joint venture and associated undertakings 2.2 2.1 The value of transactions during the year with related parties is: 2006 2005 m m Value of transactions with associated undertakings 241.8 235.3 Commission received from joint venture 22.8 26.3 The associated undertakings provide credit facilities to customers on product sales.
The joint venture pays commission to Group companies arising from the sale of mobile phones.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 99 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 40 Related party transactions continued Other related party transactions 2006 2005 m m Rent payments 0.8 0.6 Other payments for services 0.7 0.7 Services provided by related parties principally comprise of administrative, accounting, information technology and human resources services.
Rent payments include 0.2m 2005: 0.2m paid to members of key management as defined in note 34, and 0.6m 2005: 0.4m paid to Directors of subsidiary undertakings, who are not part of key management.
In addition, 0.7m 2005: 0.7m was paid to Directors of subsidiary undertakings for other services provided during the year.
The Company, through its subsidiary BUT, owned 49 per cent of two subsidiaries, FIGAP and SPEM the businesses with the outstanding 51 per cent of both businesses indirectly owned by one of the Directors of subsidiary undertakings who is not part of key management.
As of 31 October 2005, FIGAP and SPEM merged, with FIGAP remaining as the surviving entity.
BUT owned 49 per cent of the merged entity and 51 per cent was indirectly owned by the Director.
By a contract dated 21 November 2005 BUT acquired an additional 3 per cent of FIGAP from companies controlled by the Director, taking its ownership to 52 per cent for an aggregate consideration of 0.1m.
A refundable up front payment of 1.1m was also made for an option agreement giving BUT the right in 2009 to call for the remaining 48 per cent of FIGAP and this Director the right to put his interest to BUT.
The 1.1m is refundable in the event that no option is exercised and is offsettable against the proceeds realisable at the time of exercise.
41 Principal subsidaries, joint ventures and associates Country of Percentage owned and Description of Company incorporation voting rights share classes owned Main activity Principal subsidaries Etablissements Darty et Fils S. A. S. France 99.7% Ordinary shares Retailing Comet Group plc England and Wales 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing BUT S. A. France 99.7% Ordinary shares Retailing Datart Investments S. A. Luxembourg 60.0% Ordinary shares Holding company BCC Holding Amstelveen B. V. Netherlands 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing New Vanden Borre S. A. Belgium 99.7% Ordinary shares Retailing The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
Principal subsidiary undertakings are shown above.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures will be annexed to the Companys next annual return.
100 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 42 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS Reconciliation of net assets under UK GAAP to IFRS Year ended Year ended 31 January 31 January 2005 2004 m m Equity reported under UK GAAP 383.0 323.2 Pensions and benefits 98.2 74.5 Goodwill 4.7 0.7 Property and leases 28.1 24.9 Dividends 43.7 39.8 Deferred tax 9.8 0.8 Other 13.8 14.2 Equity reported under IFRS excluding IAS 39 301.1 250.9 IAS 39 adjustment to other reserves 8.2 IAS 39 adjustment to retained earnings 5.3 Total IAS 39 adjustments 2.9 Equity reported under IFRS including IAS 39 304.0 250.9 Reconciliation of retail profit Year ended 31 January 2005 m Retail profit reported under UK GAAP 206.7 Pensions and benefits 3.5 Goodwill 0.5 Property and leases 1.3 Other 1.5 Retail profit reported under IFRS 199.9 Reconciliation of profit after tax Year ended 31 January 2005 m Profit after tax reported under UK GAAP 118.6 Pensions and benefits 5.4 Goodwill 3.2 Property and leases 1.3 Other 0.2 Deferred tax 2.3 Profit after tax reported under IFRS 117.2 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 101 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 42 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued Cashflow These are no material changes to the cashflow statement under IFRS.
Other information As described in note 1, the implementation of IFRS brings with it an evolving interpretation of accounting standards.
Therefore, certain adjustments have been incorporated into the 31 January 2004 and 31 January 2005 balance sheets that alter the net assets and profit figures previously reported in the 2005 Interim Report.
Explanation of reconciling items between UK GAAP and IFRS An explanation of the impact of the principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS that apply to the Groups consolidated financial statements is set out below.
Retirement benefit obligations Under UK GAAP, the Group adopted the transitional disclosure requirements of FRS 17 and disclosed its pension obligations.
Under IAS 19, the Groups net pension deficit has been booked on the balance sheet.
There are certain differences in the accounting for pensions between IAS 19 and FRS 17.
The main differences are: Pension assets are valued at bid value under IAS 19, whereas a mid-market valuation is used under FRS 17.
Under FRS 17 pension balances are presented net of deferred tax.
Under IFRS, these balances are grossed up.
a Other employee benefits Under IAS 19, other long-term employee benefits, including long-term service awards, have been provided for on the balance sheet at their fair value.
Furthermore as a result of additional guidance in IAS 19, additional holiday pay accruals have been recorded at fair value in certain circumstances.
b Goodwill Under UK GAAP, positive and negative goodwill was amortised over its expected useful economic life of 20 years.
Under IFRS, goodwill is not amortised but tested annually for impairment including at the transition date and negative goodwill is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it arises.
c Property and leases Lease incentives Under UK GAAP, lease incentives received from lessors or paid to lessees are capitalised and spread over the shorter of the period to the first break clause or the length of the lease.
Under IAS 17, lease incentives received and paid are deferred and spread over the length of the lease.
Lease classification Under UK GAAP and IFRS, leases are classified as either finance or operating leases.
As a result of further guidance published in IAS 17, some leases that were classified as operating leases under UK GAAP have been reclassified as finance leases under IFRS.
Lease premiums Under UK GAAP, lease premiums paid to lessors on taking out a leasehold interest are capitalised and recorded as part of property, plant and equipment.
Under IAS 17, these premiums are included within prepayments.
102 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 42 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued Store impairment Under UK GAAP impairment testing of property, plant and equipment was performed at the income generating unit level, which was generally at an operating company level.
Under IAS 36, impairment testing is performed at the lowest cash generating unit level, which is generally at an individual store or group of stores level.
d Dividends Under UK GAAP, equity dividends were recognised in the period to which they related.
Under IFRS, final equity dividends are recognised only when approved by the shareholders and interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
e Deferred tax IAS 12 requires a deferred tax provision to be recognised for all taxable temporary differences between the tax bases and the associated carrying amounts for assets and liabilities.
In accordance with IAS 12, provision has been made for deferred tax on owned assets where the asset base for local taxation purposes differs from the net book value under Group accounting policies.
This was not permitted under UK GAAP unless there was a binding commitment to sell the asset.
Under IFRS, deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented separately as non-current assets and non-current liabilities on the balance sheet.
f IAS 39 adjustment As described in note 1, the following IAS 39 adjustments are relevant for the 31 January 2005 balance sheet: Interest rate swaps Under UK GAAP, only accrued interest under interest rate swaps was recognised on the balance sheet.
Under IAS 39, the fair value of interest rate swaps is recognised on the balance sheet.
The interest rate swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges, and the movement in fair value from one period to another is taken to the hedging reserve and will cumulatively net out to zero when the swaps term out.
Forward foreign exchange contracts Under UK GAAP, forward foreign exchange contracts were generally only recognised on settlement.
Under IAS 39, the fair value of all forward foreign exchange contracts is recognised.
The forward foreign exchange contracts are designated as cash flow hedges, and the movement in fair value from one period to another is taken to the hedging reserve if the hedge is effective.
On expiry of the forward contract, the amount in the hedge reserve is recycled out and recorded against the value of stock.
If a hedge is deemed ineffective, the amount in the hedge reserve is immediately recycled out to the income statement.
Available for sale financial assets Under UK GAAP, available for sale assets were recorded at cost less any diminution in value.
Under IAS 39, these financial assets are recorded at fair value and are marked to market, with the movement in fair value going through equity.
On disposal of the asset, the amount taken through equity is recycled out to the income statement.
Options Call or put options to buy shares from minority shareholders in subsidiary undertakings have been recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value.
The movement in the fair value of an option between each period end is taken to the income statement.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 103 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 42 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued Embedded derivatives Under UK GAAP, embedded derivatives were not recognised.
Under IAS 39, the fair value of embedded derivatives not closely related to their host contracts is recognised.
g Other Other adjustments principally comprise: Intangible assets Under UK GAAP, computer software costs that are not attributable to specific computer hardware were capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Under IFRS, these costs are capitalised as intangible assets.
Under UK GAAP, intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination were subsumed within goodwill.
Under IFRS, intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised separately when their fair values can be measured reliably.
Under UK GAAP, all intangible assets had to be amortised over a period not exceeding 20 years.
Under IFRS, intangible assets with an indefinite useful economic life are not amortised, but are tested annually for impairment, including at the transition date.
Stock As a result of further guidance published in IAS 2, the valuation of stock includes transportation costs from warehouses to stores, but excludes any storage costs.
104 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06
