87 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of fide La Rue plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of Audit Opinion fide La Rue plc for the year ended 25 March 2006 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the fide La Rue plc balance sheet and the related notes.
These on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
parent company financial statements have been prepared under An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation We have reported separately on the group financial statements of the parent company financial statements, and of whether of fide La Rue plc for the year ended 25 March 2006. the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial information and explanations which we considered necessary statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted assurance that the parent company financial statements and the Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free Responsibilities.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report company financial statements and the part of the Directors to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Remuneration Report to be audited.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for Opinion and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance In our opinion: with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume the parent company financial statements give a true and fair responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
25 March 2006: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company the parent company financial statements and the part of the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if  LLP information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and other transactions is not disclosed.
London 23 May 2006 We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company Notes financial statements.
The other information comprises only the a The maintenance and integrity of the fide La Rue plc website is Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Operating and Financial the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the Review, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, Remuneration Report, the Corporate Governance Report, the accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any Principle Subsidiaries, Branches and Associated Companies, the changes that may have occurred to the financial statements Five-Year Record and the Shareholders Information.
We consider since they were initially presented on the website.
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent and dissemination of financial statements may differ from company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend legislation in other jurisdictions.
