48 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 Accounting Policies Group The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of The Group adopted IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These and discontinued operations, from 27 March 2005 prospectively policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, in accordance with the standards provisions.
The Group has unless otherwise stated.
restated the disposal of Sequoia Voting Systems Inc. to conform with the disclosures required by IFRS 5.
The non-current assets Transitional Arrangements or disposal groups held for sale were previously neither classified These consolidated financial statements have been prepared nor presented as current assets or liabilities.
Such non-current in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards assets or disposal groups were not previously measured differently and IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies from other assets and liabilities.
Act, 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost Accounting Convention convention as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings, The consolidated accounts have been prepared under the available for sale investments, financial assets and liabilities held historical cost convention with the exception of certain items for trading.
A summary of the more important Group accounting which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting polices is set out below, together with an explanation of where policies below.
changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
Basis of Consolidation The results of all of the subsidiaries of the Company have been The consolidated financial statements for the year ended fully consolidated.
The majority of these subsidiaries and the 25 March 2006 are the Groups first full IFRS statements.
The date material associated companies prepare their financial information of transition to IFRS was 27 March 2004.
Comparative information to 25 March except for certain associated companies and at 26 March 2005 and for the year then ended has been restated one subsidiary whose year end is 31 December.
In the case under IFRS, with the exception of IAS 32 and IAS 39.
These two of the subsidiary, whose financial statements are made up to standards, which cover the recognition, measurement, disclosure 31 December, results for the period to 25 March 2006 have been and presentation of financial instruments, have been applied fully consolidated.
The results of businesses acquired are included prospectively from 27 March 2005.
Prior to this date, financial from the effective date of acquisition and the results of businesses instruments have been accounted for under UK generally sold are included up to the date of disposal.
Associated Companies In addition to the exemption taken not to apply IAS 32 and 39 An associated company is one in which the Group has a long term retrospectively before 27 March 2005, the Group has taken the investment and is in a position to exercise significant influence over following optional exemptions contained in IFRS 1 First-time the company in which the investment is made.
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in preparing the groups balance sheet on transition to IFRS: The Groups share of the profits of associated companies is included in the consolidated profit and loss account.
Its interest in IFRS 3 Business Combinations has been applied prospectively their net assets is included as an investment in the consolidated from 27 March 2004 and consequently, acquisitions prior to the balance sheet at the Groups share of the net assets at acquisition, date of transition to IFRS have not been restated: adjusted for goodwill or fair value adjustments recognised on initial investment plus the Groups share of retained profits.
cumulative translation differences on net investments in foreign subsidiaries have been set at zero at the date of transition to Foreign Currencies IFRS: and Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic the Groups policy for share-based payments has been applied environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
to options granted after 7 November 2002 and not vested by The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, 1 January 2005. which is fide La Rue plcs functional and presentational currency.
The Group has chosen to adopt early the amendment to IAS 19 In individual entities, transactions in foreign currencies are translated Employee Benefits issued by the IASB on 16 December 2004 into the functional currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at which permits the recognition of annual actuarial gains and losses the dates of the individual transactions.
Monetary assets and in full outside of the income statement in the statement of liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are subsequently retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet recognised income and expense.
Such exchange differences are recorded within general and administrative costs within the income statement.
The reconciliations of total equity and reserves and income from UK GAAP to IFRS together with an explanation of the All exchange differences are taken to the income statement, main movements as required by IFRS 1 are set out in Note 29 except those arising on long term foreign currency borrowings to this report.
used to finance or hedge foreign currency investments which on consolidation are taken directly to shareholders equity.
49 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries denominated in Development Costs foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange Expenditure incurred in the development of products or ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses for enhancements is capitalised as an intangible asset only when the each income statement of foreign subsidiaries are translated at future economic benefits expected to arise are deemed probable average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable and the costs can be reliably measured.
Development costs not approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing meeting these criteria are expensed in the income statement as on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses incurred.
Capitalised development costs are amortised on a are translated at the dates of the transactions and all resulting straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives exchange differences are recognised as a separate component once the product or enhancement is available for use.
When a foreign subsidiary is sold, exchange differences research costs are written off as incurred.
that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
As permitted by Other Intangible Assets IFRS 1, the balance on the cumulative translation adjustment Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences on retranslation of subsidiaries net assets has been set to zero that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised at the date of transition to IFRS.
at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic life at rates which vary from between three and five years.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the Distribution rights are amortised over their useful economic lives foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
as determined by the life of the products to which they relate.
Revenue Property, Plant and Equipment Group turnover represents sales to external customers of Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or valuation, manufactured products and services which fall within the Groups less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment ordinary trading activities.
This excludes VAT and other sales taxes.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated over their estimated Revenue is recognised in the income statement to the extent useful economic lives of 50 years.
Other leasehold interests are that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the depreciated over the lesser of the unexpired period of the lease transaction will flow into the Group and the amount can be reliably and 50 years.
A long leasehold is defined as one in which the measured.
In practice this means that revenue is recognised when remaining term of the lease is more than 50 years.
goods or services are supplied to external customers in accordance with the terms of sale.
The Groups policy is to write off the cost or valuation of all other plant and equipment evenly over their estimated remaining useful When goods are supplied, this is when the significant risks and life at rates which vary between 8 per cent and 50 per cent per rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer.
The principal annual rates of depreciation used are 10 per cent on plant and machinery, 10 per cent on fixtures and Intangible Assets fittings, and 33 per cent on tooling and computer equipment.
All intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less No depreciation is provided for assets in the course of construction.
accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each impairment losses.
Goodwill On revaluation, any accumulated depreciation at the date of Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the business combination over the Groups share of the fair value asset, and the net amount is restated to the revalued amount of of identifiable net assets of the business acquired at the date the asset.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on revaluation of acquisition.
of land and buildings are credited to other reserves in shareholders equity.
Decreases that offset previous increases of the same asset After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any are charged against other reserves directly in equity: all other accumulated impairment losses.
At the date of acquisition the decreases are charged to the income statement.
goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing and is tested at least annually for impairment.
Asset Impairment Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the may not be recoverable.
In addition, goodwill is tested at least carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business sold except annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised for the for goodwill deducted from shareholders equity.
Goodwill arising amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable on the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill and amount, the latter being the higher of the assets fair value less costs goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is presented in to sell and value in use.
Value in use calculations are performed using investments in associates.
Internally generated goodwill is not cash flow projections for the asset or group of assets where cash recognised as an asset.
flows are not identifiable to specific assets, discounted at a rate Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 27 March 2004 the date which reflects the asset specific risks and the time value of money.
of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts after amortisation subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
50 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 Accounting Policies Group continued Leasing Employment Benefits Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the Pensions lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The major schemes are defined benefit pension funds with assets Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as held separately from the Group.
The cost of providing benefits property, plant and equipment at an amount equal to the fair value under each scheme is determined using the projected unit credit of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease actuarial valuation method.
payments at the inception of the lease, and then depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Lease payments are apportioned The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and between repayment of capital and interest.
The capital element of curtailments are included in operating costs in the consolidated future lease payments is included in the balance sheet as a liability.
Past service costs are similarly included where Interest is charged to the income statement so as to achieve a the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The expected return on assets of funded defined benefit pension schemes and the Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income imputed interest on pension scheme liabilities comprise the pension statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Operating element of the net finance cost income in the income statement.
lease incentives are recognised as a reduction in the rental expense over the lease term.
Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, changes in the retirement benefit obligation due to experience Taxation and changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the The tax expense included in the income statement comprises statement of recognised income and expense in full in the current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable period in which they arise.
on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
The liability recognised on the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that obligation less the fair value of the scheme assets at the balance it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is sheet date.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, charged to the income statement in the period to which the providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts contributions relate.
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is measured Share Based Payments using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted The Group operates various equity settled and cash settled option by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply when schemes.
For equity settled share options, the services received the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent a corresponding increase in shareholders equity, on a straight that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
numbers of options that will actually vest.
Vesting conditions, other than market based conditions, are not taken into account Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on when estimating the fair value.
For cash settled share options, the investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except services received from employees are measured at the fair value where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the liability for options outstanding and recognised in the of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The fair value of the liability is re-measured at each reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes Inventories in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
IFRS 2 Share-based payment has been applied to equity settled Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost, share options granted after 7 November 2002 not yet vested at including relevant production overheads, and net realisable value.
1 January 2005 and to outstanding cash settled share options Cost is determined on a first in first out or a weighted average as at 1 January 2005. cost basis.
Cost comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion costs and an allocation of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
51 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 Share Option Schemes Financial Instruments The Groups Employee Share Ownership Trusts are separately UK GAAP Accounting Policies Applicable up to 27 March 2005 administered trusts.
Liabilities of the trusts are guaranteed by the Financial instruments are used as hedges in the financing and Company and the assets of the trusts mainly comprise shares in financial risk management of the Group.
Forward foreign exchange contracts FX contracts which hedge The shares held in the trusts are shown as a reduction in currency assets and liabilities are recognised in the consolidated Shareholders funds.
The shares will be held at historical rates financial statements together with the assets and liabilities that until such time as they are disposed of.
Any profit or loss on the they hedge.
The contract rate is used for translation.
FX contracts disposal of own shares is treated as a movement in reserves which hedge future sales and purchases are not recognised rather than as a profit and loss item.
in the consolidated financial statements until the transaction they hedge is itself recognised.
If an FX contract ceases to Cash and Cash Equivalents be a hedge then any gain or loss is recognised in the Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at consolidated income statement.
bank and in hand, short term deposits and other short term liquid investments, with original maturities of three months or less and Cross currency swaps are included in the consolidated financial bank overdrafts.
statements at the rates of exchange ruling on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are dealt with in accordance Provisions with the Groups accounting policy on foreign currencies.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation Interest paid or received on cross currency swaps is recorded in respect of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow on an accruals basis.
Apart from inclusion at the rate of exchange of resources will be required to settle the obligation and where the ruling at the balance sheet date, cross currency swaps are not amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted where revalued to fair value at the balance sheet date.
the time value of money is considered material.
Interest arising under interest rate swaps is recognised in the Exceptional Items consolidated income statement in accordance with the Groups Items which are both material by size and or by nature and nonaccounting policy on interest.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant to fair value at the balance sheet date.
The separate reporting of exceptional items charged to operating profit helps provide an Financial Instruments indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
Events IFRS Accounting Policies Applicable from 28 March 2005 which may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
include gains or losses on the disposal of businesses other than Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group include those within the scope of IFRS 5, restructuring of businesses and cross currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges Dividends in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges are Final dividends proposed by the Board and unpaid at the year end classified as follows: are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
a Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes Interim dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Segment Reporting b Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability The Groups primary reporting format is business segments and its in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated secondary format is geographical segments.
A business segment with a forecast transaction.
is a component of the Group that is engaged in providing a group of related products and is subject to risks and returns that are c Net investment hedges when they hedge the exposure to different from those of other business segments.
A geographical changes in the value of the Groups interests in the net assets segment is a component of the Group that operates within a of foreign operations.
particular economic environment and that is subject to risks and return that are different from those of components operating in For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the other economic environments.
Non specific central costs are hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable allocated on the basis of estimates of time spent and other cost to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of drivers and this policy is consistently applied.
the hedged item and similarly recognised in the consolidated income statement.
52 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 Accounting Policies Group continued For cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion b Impairment of Assets of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets be an effective hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective that have indefinite useful lives suffered any impairment.
Other portion recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non financial asset in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
asset or a cash-generating unit is determined based on value-inuse calculations prepared on the basis of managements For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are assumptions and estimates.
recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows c Income Taxes affect the consolidated income statement.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain immediately in the consolidated income statement.
during the ordinary course of business.
Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the operating activities are included in operating profit when amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact recognised in the consolidated income statement the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Borrowings are measured at amortised cost.
Where borrowings are used to hedge the Groups interests in the net assets of d Pension Obligations foreign operations, the portion of the exchange gain or loss on The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number the borrowings that is determined to be an effective hedge is of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number recognised in equity.
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less The assumptions used in determining the net cost income for any provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are pensions include the expected long term rate of return on the discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
relevant plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined on a uniform basis, taking into consideration long term historical Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements returns, asset allocation and future estimates of long term Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial investment returns.
The Group determines the appropriate discount statements are continually evaluated and are based on historical rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate that should experience and other factors, including expectations of future be used to determine the present value of estimated future cash events that are believed to be reasonable.
The resulting accounting outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations.
estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers The estimates and assumptions that have a significant effect on the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the a Property, Plant and Equipment related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for pension Assets are carried at historical cost less depreciation calculated obligations are based in part on current market conditions.
to write off the cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives.
Management determines the estimated useful lives and related depreciation charges at acquisition but will revise the depreciation charge where useful lives are subsequently found to be different to those previously estimated.
