89 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 Accounting Policies Company Basis of Preparation Trade Receivables The fide La Rue plc entity financial statements have been Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less prepared under the historical cost convention as modified any provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are by the revaluation of certain fixed assets and in accordance discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
with applicable UK accounting standards.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss For details of fide La Rue management disclosures required account is not presented.
under FRS 25, refer to disclosures on pages 62 to 67 within the consolidated financial statements.
The accounts have been prepared as at 25 March 2006, being the last Saturday in March.
The comparatives for the 2005 financial Investments year are for the year ended 26 March 2005.
Investments are stated at cost or valuation in the balance sheet, less provision for any permanent diminution in the value of the The Directors have reviewed the Companys existing investment.
Revaluation movements due to foreign exchange accounting policies and consider that they are consistent with are transferred to the foreign exchange reserve and those due the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18 to changes in the currency value of the investment are taken Accounting Policies.
The following new standards have been to the revaluation reserve.
implemented: FRS 20 Share-based Payments, FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, FRS 23 The effects of Changes Retirement Benefits in Foreign Exchange Rates, FRS 25 Financial Instruments: The pension rights of fide La Rue plc employees are dealt with disclosure and presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: through a self administered scheme, the assets of which are measurement.
The Companys accounting policies are otherwise held independently of the Groups finances.
The scheme is a consistent with the prior year.
defined benefit scheme that is funded partly by contributions from members and partly by contributions from fide La Rue plc As a result of the adoption of the above accounting standards, and its subsidiaries at rates advised by independent professionally restatements have been made to the corresponding amounts as qualified actuaries.
In accordance with FRS 17, fide La Rue plc set out in the various notes to the company financial statements.
accounts for its contributions as though it were a defined The adoption of FRS 23, FRS 25 and FRS 26 has had no impact contribution scheme.
This is because the underlying assets and on the amounts reported in the Companys financial statements.
liabilities of the scheme cover fide La Rue plc and a number of its subsidiaries and it cannot be split between each subsidiary The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Full details of the scheme preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash and its deficit measured on an IAS 19 basis can be found in Flow Statements.
The Company is also exempt under the terms Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part of the fide La Rue Group.
Share Based Payment fide La Rue plc operates various equity settled and cash settled Foreign Currencies option schemes although the majority of plans are settled by Amounts receivable from overseas subsidiaries which are the issue of shares.
The services received from employees are denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
at the appropriate year end rates of exchange.
Exchange gains The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the and losses on translating foreign currency amounts are included profit and loss account, together with a corresponding increase within the interest section of the profit and loss account except in shareholders funds, on a straight line basis over the vesting for exchange gains and losses associated with hedging loans period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will that are taken to reserves.
Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
FRS 20 Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional has been applied to share settled share options granted after currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the 7 November 2002. individual transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are subsequently retranslated at the rate of Dividends exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such exchange Under FRS 21, final ordinary dividends payable to the shareholders differences are taken to the profit and loss account, except those of fide La Rue plc are recognised in the period that they are approved arising on long term foreign currency borrowings used to finance by the shareholders.
Interim ordinary dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
or hedge foreign currency investments which on consolidation are taken directly to shareholders equity.
