NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM OF DEBENHAMS PLC WILL BE HELD AT 1 WELBECK STREET, LONDON W1G 0AA ON TUESDAY 12 DECEMBER 2006 AT 11.00 AM.
Items 1 to 18 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Items 19 and 20 will be proposed as special resolutions.
Ordinary business 1 Directors report and accounts To receive the accounts for the financial year which ended on 2 September 2006 together with the directors report and the auditors report on those accounts.
2 Directors remuneration report To approve the remuneration report for the financial year which ended on 2 September 2006.
3 Dividend To declare a final dividend for the year ended 2 September 2006 of 2.4 pence per share.
To reappoint the following directors who retire in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association 4 Philippe Costeletos 5 Adam Crozier 6 Jonathan Feuer 7 Richard Gillingwater 8 Peter Long 9 John Lovering 10 Dennis Millard 11 Guido Padovano 12 Paul Pindar 13 Michael Sharp 14 Rob Templeman 15 Chris Woodhouse 16 Appointment of auditors To reappoint  LLP as the auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
17 Remuneration of the auditors To authorise the Audit Committee on behalf of the board to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
122 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 Special business 18 Authority to allot securities That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that section up to an aggregate nominal value of 28,632 provided that this authority shall expire 15 months from the date of this resolution or at the Companys next AGM if earlier and that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the authority conferred by this resolution has expired.
19 Disapplication of pre-emption rights That subject to the passing of the previous resolution the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: a in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their respective holdings of such shares, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange: and b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,294 and shall expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or 15 months from the date of this resolution, whichever is earlier, save that the Company may, before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power conferred by this resolution has expired.
20 Authority for Debenhams plc to buy its own shares That the Company be and is hereby authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of shares, subject to the following conditions: a the maximum number of shares authorised to be purchased may not be more than 85,897,435: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 0.01 pence being the nominal value of each share: c the maximum price which may be paid for each share shall be the higher of: i an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations of a share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased: and ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of a share and the highest current independent bid for a share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETS : d unless previously renewed, varied or revoked the authority shall expire at the close of the next AGM of the Company or 18 months from the date of this resolution whichever is earlier : and e a contract to purchase shares under this authority may be made prior to the expiry of this authority, and concluded in whole or in part after the expiry of this authority.
By order of the board Guy Johnson Company Secretary 10 November 2006 Debenhams plc Registered Office 1 Welbeck Street, London W1G 0AA Registered in England and Wales.
5448421 123 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Your attention is drawn to the notes below: The directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of Debenhams plc and its shareholders.
They recommend that you vote in favour of the proposed resolutions.
The directors will be voting their own shareholdings in favour of the proposed resolutions.
To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must hold shares in Debenhams plc this means your name must be entered on the share register by 11.00am on 10 December 2006.
If you cannot come to the AGM, you can appoint someone as your proxy to come to the meeting and vote for you.
Alternatively you can appoint the Chairman as your proxy.
If there is a poll, your proxy can vote for you and can also join in the demand for a poll.
A proxy does not have to be shareholder.
If you want to appoint a proxy, fill in the form of proxy which is enclosed and return it to the Companys registrars in the prepaid envelope provided.
The Companys registrars must receive your proxy instructions by 11.00am on 10 December 2006.
If you fill in and send back a form of proxy you can still come to the AGM and vote instead of your proxy.
If you do this and there is a poll vote, the votes you have given previously to your proxy will not be counted.
The directors service contracts, letters of appointment and their interests in shares in Debenhams plc will be available for inspection at and for 15 minutes prior to the AGM.
You can also ask to see these documents during normal business hours by contacting the Company Secretary.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 December 2006 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST proxy instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
124 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006
