NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 1 Basis of preparation and general information Introduction The principal activity of Debenhams plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group or the Debenhams Group is the sale of fashion clothing and accessories, cosmetics and products for use in the home.
The Group trades from department stores in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, on the internet and has international franchise stores.
The Company formerly Debenhams Retail Holdings Limited was re-registered as Debenhams plc on 18 April 2006.
The Group prepares its financial statements for the financial year ending on the nearest Saturday to 31 August of a given calendar year.
The principal companies within the Group during the financial year ended 2 September 2006 are disclosed in note 35.
The Company gained Admission to the London Stock Exchange on 9 May 2006.
Development of the Group Debenhams plc was incorporated on 10 May 2005 and on 24 May 2005, acquired the entire share capital of Baroness Group Holdings Limited the 2005 Acquisition.
As a result of this transaction, the ultimate shareholders in Baroness Group Holdings Limited being principally funds managed or advised by subsidiaries and affiliates of CVC Capital Partners Group Sarl CVC, Texas Pacific Group TPG and Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity MLGPE received shares and loan notes in the Company in direct proportion to their original shareholdings in Baroness Group Holdings Limited.
Under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the acquisition of Baroness Group Holdings Limited by the Company has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition and the consolidated IFRS financial information of the Company is therefore a continuation of the financial information of Baroness Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries.
Prior to the 2005 Acquisition, the ultimate shareholders in Baroness Group Holdings Limited held their shares in the company through ownership of ordinary units in the companys immediate parent, the Baroness Group Limited Partnership.
On 16 May 2005, the Baroness Group Limited Partnership was dissolved and its members received 9.9999 shares in Baroness Group Holdings Limited for each ordinary unit held.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under accounting standards as adopted for use in the EU.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 3 September 2005 have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 2 September 2006 have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments, which include available-for-sale investments and derivatives.
The preparation of the financial statements is in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reporting amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these results are based on managements best knowledge of the amounts, events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The directors believe that the underlying operating profit before exceptional items and underlying earnings per share measures provide additional useful information for shareholders on the underlying performance of the business, and are consistent with how business performance is measured internally.
It is not a recognised profit measure under IFRS and may not be directly comparable with adjusted profit measures used by other companies.
56 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 1 Basis of preparation and general information continued Non-GAAP measure 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Operating profit before exceptional items 238.2 228.0 Impact of 53rd week 8.4 Lease cost adjustments 14.1 Leases with fixed annual increments in rent 14.9 9.7 Share-based payments 14.3 5.5 Underlying operating profit before exceptional items 267.4 220.7 2 Accounting policies First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS In preparing these consolidated financial statements the Group has elected to apply certain exemptions available under IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Reporting Standards.
In accordance with IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the Group has taken the exemption not to restate comparatives for IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Comparative information in respect of these items are presented on a UK GAAP basis as previously reported.
The Groups principal accounting policies are described below.
Consolidation The financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of Debenhams plc and all its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries include all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which the Group has the power to control.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Segmental reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of staff discounts and the cost of loyalty scheme points, and is stated net of VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue on department store sales of goods and commission on concession sales are recognised when goods are sold to the customer.
Retail sales are usually in cash or by credit or debit card.
Internet sales are recognised when the goods are delivered to the customer.
Revenue from gift vouchers and gift cards sold by the Group are recognised on the redemption of the gift voucher or gift card.
It is the Groups policy to sell its products to the end customer with a right of return.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for such returns at the time of sale.
Interest recognition Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the applicable interest rate.
57 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 2 Accounting policies continued Dividend distribution A final dividend distribution to the Group shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Group shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised as a liability when paid.
Retirement benefit costs The liability recognised in respect of defined benefit schemes is the present value of the defined obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in sterling, and that have terms to maturity which approximate to the terms of the related pension liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the statement of recognised income and expenses.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes in pension plans are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The Groups contributions to stakeholder pension schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
Differences between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equitysettled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The Group measures the fair value using the valuation technique most appropriate to value each class of award: either a Black-Scholes, Monte Carlo or Binomial pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of nonmarket-based vesting conditions.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are events or transactions that fall within the activities of the Group and which by virtue of their size or incidence have been disclosed in order to improve a readers understanding of the financial statements.
Taxation Taxation expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profits for the financial period using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expenses that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
If deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
58 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 2 Accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversals of the temporary differences is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Foreign exchange a Functional and presentational currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Groups functional and presentational currency.
b Group companies The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transaction : and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
c Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currency at average monthly rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences on exchange are taken to the income statement.
Leased assets a Finance leases Leases of assets which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are classified as a financial liability and measured at amortised cost.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property, plant and equipment or the present value of the minimum lease payments and depreciated over the period of the lease.
The resulting lease obligations are included in liabilities.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
b Operating leases All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases, net of lease incentives, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Where property lease contracts contain guaranteed fixed minimum incremental rental payments, the total committed cost is determined and is calculated and amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill is not amortised, but tested annually for impairment, or when trigger events occur, and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
59 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 2 Accounting policies continued b Other intangible assets Acquired licences and trademarks are capitalised at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful life, not to exceed ten years.
Internally-generated software costs, where it is clear that the software developed is technically feasible and will be completed and that the software generated will generate economic benefit, are capitalised as an intangible asset.
The software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life, being three to eight years.
Property, plant and equipment It is the Groups policy to hold properties at cost, subject to the requirement to test assets for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at the following rates per annum to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less residual value, on a straight-line basis from the date on which they are brought into use: Freehold land Not depreciated Freehold buildings 1 per cent Long leaseholds including landlords fixtures and fittings 1 per cent or life of lease if shorter Short leaseholds including landlords fixtures and fittings Life of lease Retail fixtures and fittings 520 per cent Office equipment 10 per cent 1 1 Computer equipment 16 33 per cent 2 3 Vehicles 25 per cent or life of lease The assets useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each financial period end.
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount.
These are included in the income statement.
Included within property, plant and equipment are assets in the course of construction.
These assets comprise stores, which are under construction, including costs directly attributable to bring the asset into use.
Transfers to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment are made when the store opens.
No depreciation is provided on stores or other assets under construction.
Impairment testing Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped by store, which is the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Available-for-sale investments The Group classifies its investments as available-for-sale financial assets in accordance with IAS 39.
Available-for-sale financial investments are non-derivative assets.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Investments are recognised at fair value plus any transaction costs.
If a fair value for an investment can not be reliably measured, due to the variability in the range of reasonable fair value estimates being significant, or the probabilities of the various estimates within the range not being able to be reasonably assessed, that investment will be carried at cost.
An impairment test is performed annually on the carrying value of each investment.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
60 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 2 Accounting policies continued Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value using the retail method and represent goods for resale.
Concession stocks are not included within stocks held by the Group.
Trade receivables Trade receivables, defined as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39, are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method for any doubtful amounts.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The movement in the provision is recognised in the income statement.
Any other trade receivables are recognised at their original amount less an allowance for any doubtful amounts.
An allowance is made when collection of the full amount is no longer considered probable.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at the bank and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs that are facility costs are recognised initially at fair value, and are amortised over the term of the facilities at a constant rate on the carrying amount of the facility.
Trade payables Trade payables, defined as financial liabilities in accordance with IAS 39, are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Any other trade payables are stated at cost.
All of the trade payables are non-interest bearing.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and where it is more likely than not an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Share capital Ordinary, governance and subscriber shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares in equity are shown as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
61 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 2 Accounting policies continued Derivatives The derivative instruments used by the Group to manage its interest rate and currency risk are interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and forward currency contracts.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as an effective hedging instrument and the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly-probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges.
Derivatives are recognised using trade date accounting.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at the inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
i Cash flow hedges The effective portion of the changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the relevant line of the income statement which will be affected by the underlying hedged item.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the underlying hedged item when the underlying hedged item is recognised on the balance sheet or in the income statement.
When a hedged instrument expires, is sold or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is immediately recognised in the relevant line of the income statement which will be affected by the original underlying hedged item.
When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the relevant line of the income statement which would have been affected by the forecasted transaction.
ii Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement as cost of sales.
iii Embedded derivatives Where the risks and characteristics of derivatives embedded in other contracts are not closely related to those of the contracts, and the whole contract is not carried at fair value with gains or losses reported in the income statement, the derivative is separated from that host contract and measured at fair value, with fair value movements reflected in the account in the income statement which will be affected by the underlying host contract.
Change in accounting policy First-time adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 In accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has elected not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 to the financial year ended 3 September 2005.
Accordingly, the Group has continued to apply UK GAAP in the accounting for and disclosure of financial instruments in that period.
i Policies relating to UK GAAP comparatives Comparative information in respect of these items are presented on a UK GAAP basis as previously reported.
62 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 2 Accounting policies continued a Available-for-sale investments Investments are held at cost less any provision for diminution in value.
b Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised at their original amount less an allowance for any doubtful amounts.
c Borrowings All borrowings are initially stated at the fair value of the consideration received after the deduction of issue costs.
Issue costs together with finance costs, are charged to the income statement over the term of the borrowings and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
d Trade payables Trade payables are stated at cost.
e Derivatives Derivative financial instruments are accounted for using hedge accounting to the extent that they are held to hedge a financial asset or liability or future expenditure.
When a derivative financial instrument ceases to be a hedge, either as a result of the underlying asset or liability being extinguished, or because a future event is no longer likely to occur, the derivative is accounted for in the income statement.
The Group policy is not to use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
ii Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 The adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 4 September 2005 results in a change in the Groups accounting policy for financial instruments.
The impact of these standards on the Groups balance sheet is shown below.
The principal impacts of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on the Groups financial statements relates to the recognition of derivative financial instruments at fair value.
Any derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are held on the balance sheet at fair value with the changes in value reflected through the income statement.
The accounting treatment of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting depends on how they are designated.
Under IAS 39, derivative financial instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised on the balance sheet at fair value with corresponding fair value changes deferred in equity.
The Group hedges: foreign currency exposures on inventory purchases through forward currency contracts: and interest rate risk through using interest rate swaps.
Funding debt has previously been reported excluding interest, with interest being shown in accruals.
Following the adoption of IAS 32, funding debt includes all accrued interest.
This reclassification of accrued interest has decreased accruals and increased bank overdraft and borrowings.
63 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 2 Accounting policies continued The adjustments to the balance sheet as at 4 September 2005 are as follows: Opening balance Effects of sheet at adopting Position at 4 September IAS 32 and 4 September 2005 IAS 39 2005 m m m Non-current assets Financial assets available-for-sale investments 7.2 1.0 8.2 derivative financial instruments 0.8 0.8 Deferred tax assets 58.9 5.4 64.3 Current assets Financial assets derivative financial instruments 1.4 1.4 Current liabilities Financial liabilities bank overdraft and borrowings 75.0 0.4 75.4 derivative financial instruments 1.5 1.5 Trade and other payables accruals 125.4 4.5 120.9 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities bank overdraft and borrowings 1,839.1 1.5 1,840.6 derivative financial instruments 21.3 21.3 Impact on net assets 11.6 Other reserve 1.0 Hedging reserve 14.9 Retained earnings 2.3 Impact on shareholders equity 11.6 The adjustment to available-for-sale investments relates to the increase in the carrying value of the Groups investment in BF Properties No.
Adjustments to derivative financial instruments and deferred tax assets relate to the recognition on the balance sheet of the fair value of derivative financial instruments and the deferred tax impact thereof.
Adjustments to bank overdrafts and borrowings and trade and other payables relate to the reclassification of accrued interest.
64 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 2 Accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations During the year, the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC issued the following standards and interpretations which are effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or after the stated effective date.
These standards and interpretations are not effective for and have not been applied in the preparation of this financial information: Effective date International Accounting Standards IFRS IAS IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources 1 January 2006 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007 IAS 21 Amendment Net investment in Foreign Operation yet to be adopted by the EU 1 January 2006 IAS 39 Fair value option 1 January 2006 IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intra-group Transactions 1 January 2006 IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Financial Guarantee Contracts 1 January 2006 IFRIC interpretations IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease 1 January 2006 IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds 1 January 2006 IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment 1 December 2005 IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies Yet to be adopted by the EU 1 March 2006 IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006 The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements on adoption.
3 Financial risk management a Financial risks and treasury management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: funding and liquidity risk: credit risk: foreign exchange risk: and cash flow interest rate risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The board has established an overall treasury policy and has approved procedures and authority levels within which the treasury function Group Treasury must operate.
The Finance Director conducts a treasury review at least monthly and the Treasury Committee meets and performs their review on a quarterly basis.
The board receives regular reports covering treasury activities.
Treasury policy is to manage risks within an agreed framework whilst not taking speculative positions.
65 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 3 Financial risk management continued a Financial risks and treasury management continued The policies and strategies for managing these risks are summarised as follows: i Funding and liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
The Group finances its operations by a combination of debt finance, leases and retained profits.
The objective is to ensure that there is sufficient cash or working capital facilities to meet the cash flow requirements of the Group for its current business plan.
ii Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash or by credit and debit cards, wholesale sales of products to franchisees are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high credit-quality financial institutions.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution.
Cash surpluses are placed on deposit for no longer than three months and only with financial counterparties with a short-term credit rating of A1 P1 or better.
iii Foreign exchange risk The Companys functional currency is sterling.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions relating to imports.
To manage the foreign exchange transaction risk, entities in the Group use forward currency contracts transacted by Group Treasury.
Foreign exchange risk arises when commercial transactions are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
Group Treasury is responsible for managing the exposure in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts with a settlement of 12 months or less, up to 80 per cent of the first six months forecast purchases and up to 70 per cent of the second six months are hedged.
The Group does not hedge either economic exposure or the translation exposure arising from the profits, assets and liabilities of non-sterling business.
iv Cash flow interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Borrowings are issued at variable rates that expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The interest exposure of the Group is managed within the constraints of the Groups business plan and the financial covenants under its facilities.
The Groups exposure to floating-rate interest is within financial covenants and planned expectation.
The aim is to reduce exposure to the effect of interest rate movements and to take advantage of low interest rates by hedging an appropriate amount of interest rate exposure whilst maintaining the flexibility to minimise early termination costs.
Following the Groups Admission to the London Stock Exchange the board approved an interest rate hedging strategy of a target fixed percentage of 75 per cent, with a 15 per cent tolerance 60 90 per cent.
The impact of movements in interest rates is managed through the use of floating-rate debt and interest rate swaps and caps.
These are usually matched with specific loans for a period of time up to their maturity or call date.
The Groups main interest rate exposure is from the floating rate loans under the credit facilities.
b Fair value estimates The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward currency contracts has been determined based on market forward currency exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
66 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 3 Financial risk management continued b Fair value estimates continued The fair values of short-term deposits, loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
In the case of the Groups loans due in more than one year, the fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rates available to the Group.
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year-end exchange rates.
4 Segmental reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Based on an analysis of risks and returns, the directors consider that the Group has only one identifiable business segment, retailing.
All material operations of the Group are carried out in the UK and therefore no geographical segmentation is disclosed.
Consequently, the Group has considered business segmentation as the primary segmentation, with a single  segment, retailing.
5 Gross transaction value Revenue from concessions is required to be shown on a net basis, being the commission received rather than the gross value achieved by the concessionaire on the sale.
Management believes that gross transaction value, which presents revenue on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions, staff discounts and the cost of loyalty scheme points, represents a good guide to the value of the overall activity of the Group.
2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Gross transaction value 2,192.9 2,086.8 6 Critical accounting estimates and judgements The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period are discussed below.
Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
At each financial period end, judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on the best estimates at the balance sheet date.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
67 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 6 Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The fair value is calculated using the appropriate fair value model with the estimated level of vesting being reviewed annually by management.
The key assumptions of this model are set out in note 28.
Pension liability The Groups defined benefit schemes pension liability, which is assessed each period by actuaries is based on key assumptions including return on plan assets, discount rates, mortality rates, inflation, future salary and pension costs.
These assumptions, individually or collectively, may be different to actual outcomes.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions: additional information relating to this is disclosed in note 24.
Estimated useful life of property, plant and equipment The Group estimates the useful life of property, plant and equipment and reviews this estimate at each financial period end.
The Group also tests for impairment whenever a trigger event occurs.
7 Operating profit 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit: The amounts of inventory written down during the financial year 11.0 11.1 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 818.4 779.9 Employment costs note 9 276.2 267.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 16 : owned assets 85.3 84.6 assets held under finance leases 0.7 0.8 Amortisation of intangible assets note 15 5.1 3.8 Profit loss on disposal of: property, plant and equipment 0.1 2.7 intangible assets 0.3 Operating lease rentals: property 130.2 104.0 other 1.6 1.8 Foreign exchange gains 2.6 4.1 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 12.4 14.4 Auditors remuneration 1.1 0.4 Exceptional items note 8 14.6 113.3 Operating lease costs and incentives As explained in note 34, the adoption of IFRS has a very significant impact on operating lease costs and incentives.
The changes relate to the treatment of leases with annual fixed increments in rent and the accounting for both rent-free periods and developers contributions.
The adverse impact on reported profit of these changes is as follows: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Leases with fixed annual increments in rent 14.9 9.7 Rent-free periods 1.6 1.7 Developers contributions 6.1 9.2 Reduction in operating profit resulting from the adoption of IAS 17 Leases and SIC 15 Operating Leases Incentives 22.6 20.6 68 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 7 Operating profit continued Services provided by the Groups auditor During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Groups auditor at costs as detailed below: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Charged to income statement Compliance work audit services 0.2 0.2 Advisory services taxation services 0.2 Initial Public Offering 0.9 Capitalised debt issue costs advisory work relating to the refinancing 0.2 Capitalised share premium costs advisory work relating to the Initial Public Offering 0.4 Fees paid to the auditors,  LLP, for both advisory and compliance work relating to the Companys Admission to the London Stock Exchange amounted to 1.3 million.
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985 0.4 million of these fees has been set off against the share premium account and 0.9 million has been charged as an exceptional administrative expense.
It is cost effective for the Group that such services are provided by its auditors in view of their knowledge of the Groups affairs going back a number of years.
8 Exceptional items Exceptional items are events or transactions that fall within the activities of the Group and which by virtue of their size or incidence have been disclosed in order to improve a readers understanding of the financial statements.
2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Operating exceptional items Other exceptional costs of sales 2.6 Admission to the London Stock Exchange 4.6 Other exceptional item 10.0 Refinancing 1.8 Profit on deemed disposal of subsidiary 117.7 Total operating exceptional items 14.6 113.3 Write-off of capitalised debt costs on refinancing 33.5 22.3 Interest on refinancing note 11 2.6 70.6 Total exceptional items before tax 50.7 20.4 Financial year ended 2 September 2006 Admission to the London Stock Exchange Costs relating to the Companys Admission to the London Stock Exchange include taxation and restructuring advice of 1.0 million, legal and professional fees of 1.0 million, bonuses of 1.1 million and other advisory services of 1.5 million, relating to printing costs, marketing and public relations all of which related to the Admission.
Other exceptional item Restricted cash of 10.3 million is held by The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004.
Following the Companys Admission to the London Stock Exchange the Trustees agreed to distribute 10.0 million of the restricted cash to the beneficiaries of the Trust in accordance with the Trust rules.
69 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 8 Exceptional items continued Interest on refinancing On 30 May 2006 the Group refinanced its debt, which resulted in the repayment of the senior credit facilities.
As a result of this repayment the Group wrote-off all unamortised debt issue costs associated with the senior credit facility, which amounted to 33.5 million.
All fees associated with the new term loan facility are being amortised over the term of the facility.
Additional interest expense of 2.1 million relating to the early repayment of the senior credit facility was incurred on refinancing.
As a result of the refinancing the interest rate hedging strategy required the restructuring of the interest rate swap portfolio.
This resulted in the close out of the interest rate cap and the restructuring of the two forward-start interest rate swaps at a cost of 0.5 million.
Financial year ended 3 September 2005 Other exceptional cost of sales A payment of 2.6 million was paid to Red Letter Day RLD.
This payment guaranteed that all old RLD experiences purchased by the Group prior to RLD going into administration were honoured by the new management of RLD.
Refinancing The Group incurred administrative costs totalling 1.8 million in relation to the refinancing in May and June 2005.
These costs include legal costs, taxation advice and professional costs associated with the dissolution of the Baroness Group Limited Partnership which was the parent entity of the Group prior to the May 2005 refinancing.
Deemed disposal of subsidiary The profit on the deemed disposal of BF Properties No.
Interest on refinancing In connection with the 2005 refinancing, the Group wrote-off unamortised debt issue costs associated with the previous senior facility and high-yield bonds amounting to 18.3 million and 4.0 million respectively.
Furthermore, the repayment of the high-yield bond in June 2005 included a make-whole premium of 70.6 million, which arose due to the early repayment of the high-yield bonds.
9 Employees 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Wages and salaries 234.1 229.5 Social security costs 18.5 17.1 Pension costs 6.2 12.9 Share-based payments note 28 14.3 5.5 Short-term employee benefits 3.1 2.5 Total employment costs 276.2 267.5 Number Number Average number of employees Full time 8,358 7,845 Part time 16,358 15,495 Total 24,716 23,340 Included in pension costs in the employee cost table above is 0.3 million 2005: 0.3 million of contibutions payable to key managements personal pension plans.
Information concerning directors remuneration, interest in shares and share options are included in the Remuneration report on pages 39 to 48.
70 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 9 Employees continued Key management compensation 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Salaries and short-term benefits 3.3 4.4 Post-employment benefits 0.2 Share-based payments 3.2 2.2 6.7 6.6 10 Interest receivable and similar income 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Interest on bank deposits 7.3 7.4 11 Interest payable and similar charges 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Interest payable and similar charges Bank loans and overdrafts 124.1 110.4 Amortisation of issue costs on loans note 22 5.1 9.6 Interest payable on finance leases 3.5 3.2 Exchange losses on foreign currency borrowings 2.3 Deep discount bond charges 42.7 Interest payable before exceptional items 132.7 168.2 Exceptional items interest payable and similar charges Unamortised issue costs written off on repayment of the senior facility and high-yield bonds note 8 22.3 Make-whole premium payable on the repayment of the high-yield bonds note 8 70.6 Unamortised issue costs written off on repayment of the senior term loan note 8 33.5 Premium on early settlement of the senior term loan note 8 2.1 Cost of restructuring the interest swap portfolio note 8 0.5 Exceptional items interest payable and similar charges 36.1 92.9 Interest payable and similar charges after exceptional items 168.8 261.1 Included within amortisation of issue costs on loans for the year ended 3 September 2005, is 4.3 million which relates to the write-off of the fees associated with the mortgage facility.
71 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 12 Taxation Analysis of tax charge credit in the year 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Current tax UK corporation tax charge on profit for the year 9.1 8.5 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 3.6 0.1 Current tax expense 5.5 8.4 Deferred taxation Origination and reversal of timing differences 0.9 47.0 Pension cost relief in excess of pension cost charge 8.0 2.2 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 4.0 0.3 Deferred tax expense income 12.9 44.5 Tax charge credit in the financial year 18.4 36.1 The tax for the year is lower 2005: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 30 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax 62.1 87.6 Profit on ordinary activities at standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30 per cent 18.6 26.3 Effects of: Income not subject to tax 1.0 0.2 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.5 9.5 Overseas items 1.1 0.7 Adjustments in relation to prior periods 0.4 0.2 Release of provision created for gain on assets held for sale 18.2 Release of provision created for deferred tax on qualifying depreciation 17.7 Fixed asset disposals 35.3 Tax charge credit for the year 18.4 36.1 Tax relating to exceptional items as detailed in note 8 and included in the above tax charge credit amounted to: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Tax credit relating to: Operating exceptional items 3.5 37.1 Interest exceptional items 10.8 27.9 14.3 65.0 13 Dividends The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 2 September 2006 of 2.4 pence per share which will absorb an estimated 20.6 million of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 4 January 2007 to shareholders who are on the register of members at close of business on 24 November 2006.
72 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 14 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Group has one class of dilutive potential ordinary shares, those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year.
At 3 September 2005, the performance criteria for the vesting period of the share options had not been met and consequently the shares in question are excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
Basic and diluted earnings per share 2 September 2006 3 September 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks Basic Diluted Basic Diluted m m m m Profit for the financial year 43.7 43.7 123.7 123.7 Number Number Number Number mm mm Weighted average number of shares 614.4 614.4 500.0 500.0 Shares held by ESOP weighted 25.6 25.6 27.7 27.7 Shares issuable weighted 5.6 Adjusted weighted average number of shares 588.8 594.4 472.3 472.3 Pence Pence Pence Pence per share per share per share per share Earnings per share 7.4 7.4 26.2 26.2 Underlying earnings per share The underlying earnings per share reflects the underlying performance of the business compared with the prior year and is calculated by dividing underlying earnings by the number of shares in issue at the year end.
2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Profit for the financial year 43.7 123.7 Exceptional items 50.7 20.4 Impact of 53rd week 8.4 Lease cost adjustments 14.1 Leases with fixed annual increments in rent 14.9 9.7 Share-based payments 14.3 5.5 Interest adjustments 58.3 88.0 Adjustment to tax charge to reflect the above items 40.5 89.2 Underlying profit for the year 141.4 94.8 Number Number m m Issued share capital at 2 September 2006 859.0 859.0 Pence per Pence per share share Underlying earnings per share 16.5 11.0 Underlying profit is used by management as a measure of profitability within the Group.
It is defined as operating profit before exceptional items, the impact of leases with fixed annual increments in rent and charges relating to share-based payments.
The results for 2005 have been adjusted to remove the impact of week 53 and lease cost adjustments for the period prior to the British Land property transaction, which took place in February 2005.
In addition, in both 2005 and 2006 the Group underwent significant re-financing.
In consequence, the statutory interest and related financing costs are not comparable year on year.
The above adjustment for interest assumes that the 2006 refinancing, which took place after the date of Admission, was effective at the beginning of the year ended 3 September 2005 and that the proceeds of shares issued on Admission 700 million were available at that date.
73 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 14 Earnings per share continued The comparison of performance year on year has also been made complex by costs incurred as a result of the Companys Admission to the London Stock Exchange on 9 May 2006 which increased the number of shares issued by the Company.
The underlying earnings per share uses the capital structure as at 2 September 2006 to eliminate the effect of these changes.
The total consideration for the acquisition was 34.0 million, and goodwill was attributable to the leasehold sites acquired.
The consideration was paid on completion of the acquisition, which was 21 March 2005.
Software development costs The computer software capitalised principally relates to internally developed application software.
Externally developed application software as at 2 September 2006 amounted to 1.2 million.
Amortisation on the Groups intangible assets has been charged to the income statement as follows for the financial years ended: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Included within cost of sales 3.5 2.1 Included within distribution costs 0.2 0.1 Included within administrative expenses 1.4 1.6 5.1 3.8 74 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 15 Intangible assets continued Impairment test for goodwill The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Debenhams Group Holdings Limited previously known as Debenhams plc until 2 March 2004 by Baroness Group Holdings Limited on 4 December 2003, is not being amortised but reviewed on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of cash-generating units according to the level at which management monitors that goodwill.
For the purposes of this impairment review, the recoverable amounts of the cash generating units CGU are determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated based on an estimated growth rate of 2.5 per cent.
The growth rates do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the retail sector in which the CGUs operate.
The pre-tax discount rate used to calculate the value in use was 8.5 per cent and reflects the specific risks in the retail business.
Management determined the gross margin for each CGU based on performance and its expectations for the market development.
The weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports.
The discount rates used are pre tax and risk-free rates.
As at 2 September 2006, no impairment of goodwill has been required 2005: nil.
16 Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings Shortleasehold Vehicles, Longfixtures and fixtures and Freehold leasehold fittings equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 29 August 2004 346.0 89.6 260.6 395.5 1,091.7 Additions 22.0 17.7 65.7 105.4 Reclassifications 2.8 2.8 Disposals and write-offs 313.6 80.0 16.2 122.4 532.2 At 3 September 2005 54.4 9.6 264.9 336.0 664.9 Additions 13.1 62.4 75.5 Disposals and write-offs 0.1 19.0 19.1 At 2 September 2006 54.4 9.6 277.9 379.4 721.3 Accumulated depreciation At 29 August 2004 1.5 0.7 8.0 49.5 59.7 Charge for the year 0.7 0.4 11.3 73.0 85.4 Disposals and write-offs 2.1 1.0 16.2 110.9 130.2 At 3 September 2005 0.1 0.1 3.1 11.6 14.9 Charge for the year 0.4 0.3 11.6 73.7 86.0 Disposals and write-offs 0.1 19.0 19.1 At 2 September 2006 0.5 0.4 14.6 66.3 81.8 Net book value At 2 September 2006 53.9 9.2 263.3 313.1 639.5 At 3 September 2005 54.3 9.5 261.8 324.4 650.0 Assets in the course of construction included in property, plant and equipment at the financial year end are as follows: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Assets in the course of construction 20.5 35.7 75 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 16 Property, plant and equipment continued Property, plant and equipment includes the following assets held under finance leases: Vehicles, fixtures Freehold land and and equipment long leasehold buildings 2 September 3 September 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Cost 2.7 2.7 59.2 59.2 Aggregate depreciation based on cost 0.6 0.3 2.4 2.0 Net book value 2.1 2.4 56.8 57.2 17 Financial assets available-for-sale investments m Cost At 29 August 2004 Additions 7.2 At 3 September 2005 7.2 Adoption of IAS 32 note 2 1.0 At 4 September 2005 and 2 September 2006 8.2 Net book value At 2 September 2006 8.2 At 3 September 2005 7.2 On 30 November 2004, the Group acquired 10 per cent of the issued share capital of Ermes Department Stores Limited, a company registered in Cyprus.
Consideration in cash of 4.2 million, included associated legal costs of 0.1 million, was paid on acquisition of this investment.
Ermes Department Stores Limited is a private company in which the Group holds a minority interest.
The fair value is not materially different to the historic cost and the investment is therefore carried at a cost of 4.2 million.
The Group holds 100 per cent of the A ordinary shares, which cost 3.0 million and have a fair value of 4.0 million, which carry no voting rights, in BF Properties No.
The directors consider that the ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party of BF Properties No.
4 Limited is The British Land Company plc.
4 Limited was incorporated in Great Britain.
The address of its principal place of business is 10 Cornwall Terrace, Regents Park, London.
4 Limited has changed its year end to 31 March previously 22 February 2005 and it continues to report in accordance with UK GAAP.
The aggregate amount of the capital and reserves of BF Properties No.
The profit of BF Properties No.
4 Limited for the year ended 31 March 2005 was 600,740.
This is the most recent set of published results for the Company.
Following the adoption of IAS 39, the investment in BF Properties No.
4 Limited has been calculated by discounting the future expected proceeds from the investment at the prevailing interest rate of 5.6 per cent.
The adoption of IAS 39 resulted in an increase of 1.0 million in the carrying value of the investment in BF Properties No.
There were no disposals or impairment provisions on available-for-sale financial assets during the years shown.
76 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 18 Inventories 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Items held for resale 207.8 197.2 Write downs of inventories are disclosed in note 7.
19 Trade and other receivables 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Trade receivables 21.5 19.6 Other receivables 0.5 0.4 Prepayments and accrued income 41.9 34.5 63.9 54.5 20 Cash and cash equivalents 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Cash at bank and in hand 17.2 22.9 Short-term bank deposits 16.8 53.2 34.0 76.1 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 Effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits per cent 4.6 4.5 Average maturity rate days 35.9 11.7 Included within short-term bank deposits at 2 September 2006 is 10.3 million 2005: 12.8 million of restricted cash which is held by the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 see note 28.
In accordance with the Trust deed, and as stated in note 8, the restricted cash will be distributed to the beneficiaries of the Trust after the year end.
Cash and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Cash and cash equivalents 34.0 76.1 Bank overdrafts and revolving credit facility note 22 33.7 12.1 0.3 64.0 21 Trade and other payables 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 Current m m Trade payables 198.9 189.7 Other payables 74.8 46.2 Other taxation and social security 29.1 22.1 Accruals 96.1 125.4 Deferred income 1.5 5.2 400.4 388.6 77 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 22 Bank overdraft and borrowings 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Bank loans and overdrafts 1.7 12.1 B loan notes 50.1 Term loan facility 1,050.4 Revolving credit facility 32.0 Senior term loan tranche A 407.6 Senior term loan tranche B 560.0 Senior term loan tranche C 560.0 Senior term loan tranche D 300.0 Lease obligations 62.2 61.9 1,146.3 1,951.7 Less: unamortised issue costs 16.2 37.6 1,130.1 1,914.1 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 Maturity of debt m m Amounts falling due: In one year or less or on demand 33.1 75.0 In more than one year but not more than two years 98.8 24.9 In more than two years but not more than five years 952.2 184.9 In more than five years 46.0 1,629.3 1,130.1 1,914.1 Amounts falling due within one year 33.1 75.0 Amounts falling due after one year 1,097.0 1,839.1 The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 % % Bank loans and overdrafts 5.75 5.50 B loan notes 7.05 Term loan facility 6.09 Revolving credit facility 6.03 Senior term loan tranche A 6.85 Senior term loan tranche B 7.35 Senior term loan tranche C 7.85 Senior term loan tranche D 9.10 Lease obligations 5.11 5.25 The effective interest rate on the B loan notes includes the interest rate on the guarantee of the tranche A of the senior term loan which amounts to 2.25 per cent.
During the year the Group repaid 700 million of the 2.05 billion senior credit facilities, 683 million on 9 May 2006 and a further 17 million on 11 May 2006, funded by the proceeds from the issue of new shares and cash.
On 30 May 2006 the Group refinanced its existing 2.05 billion senior credit facilities with the proceeds of a new term loan of 1.05 billion and a revolving credit facility RCF of 0.3 billion.
On 3 July 2006 the RCF was reduced to 0.25 billion.
The term loan facility is repayable in instalments with the loan being repaid in full by 2011.
Interest rates are based on LIBOR and denominated in sterling.
The RCF is multicurrency with interest rates based on the relevant inter-bank market rate.
Issue costs of 17.2 million which mainly relate to facility costs, were incurred primarily on utilisation of the credit facilities and are being amortised over the term of the facility at a constant rate based on the carrying amount of the term loan.
The amortisation charge relating to the issue costs of the credit facilities for the year ended 2 September 2006 was 1.0 million.
The amortisation of issue costs prior to the refinancing was 4.1 million.
78 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 22 Bank overdraft and borrowings continued During the year 0.9 million of the B loan notes was repaid on 13 January 2006 and the remaining 49.2 million was repaid in full on 21 March 2006.
Fixed interest on the B notes was charged at 4.8 per cent per annum and the principal was guaranteed under the senior credit facilities.
Financial year ended 3 September 2005 On 26 May 2005 the Group refinanced its debt structure through the draw down of the senior term loan of 1.8 billion.
The funds received from the new facility allowed the repayment of the former senior facility, the high-yield bonds, the deep discounted bonds, the A loan notes and associated costs see note 8.
The senior term loan tranche A facility repayments were made in stages with the loan due to be repaid in full during 2012.
The senior term loan tranche B was repayable in full during 2013 with tranches C and D being repayable in full during 2014.
Interest rates were floating and varied on each tranche of the senior facility, all were based on LIBOR and denominated in sterling.
The loan was secured by a first ranking fixed security and a floating charge over the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries.
As at 3 September 2005, 22.3 million of C loan notes issued by the Company were held by the Baroness Employee Limited Partnership and were eliminated on the consolidation of the Limited Partnership.
The B loan notes were repayable on demand after 24 November 2005.
Fixed interest on the B and C loan notes was charged at 4.8 per cent per annum and the notes were guaranteed under tranche A of the senior term loan facilities.
Issue costs of 39.1 million, which mainly related to facility costs, were incurred upon the draw down of the senior term loan and were being amortised over the term of the facilities at a constant rate on the carrying amount of the loan.
During the year ended 3 September 2005 1.5 million of costs relating to the senior term loan were amortised.
Following the property reorganisation on 22 February 2005 and the deemed disposal of BF Properties No.
4 Limited, the obligation to repay the mortgage facility was transferred to The British Land Company plc.
The amount outstanding on the mortgage facility at this date was 363.5 million.
The amortisation of issue costs prior to the 2005 Acquisition and the write-off of the mortgage facility issue fees for the period to 24 May 2005 was 3.8 million and 4.3 million respectively.
As a result of the refinancing undertaken in May 2005 unamortised debt issue costs relating to the senior facility and high-yield bond of 18.3 million and 4.0 million respectively were written off in full.
i Finance lease obligations In 1988 a number of properties with a market value of 42.7 million were sold to certain banks on 125-year leases at peppercorn rentals.
The Group subsequently entered into full tenant and landlord repairing sub-leases for 125 years.
At the year end the following amounts remained outstanding under the leases: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Principal 42.7 42.7 Accrued interest 15.8 16.8 Outstanding liability 58.5 59.5 The rentals payable are structured so as to give the lessors a financing return linked to LIBOR in the first 25 years and, in the following ten years, a LIBOR-linked return together with the repayment of capital.
Thereafter, market rentals are payable subject to revision every five years.
In the early years, the amounts payable are below LIBOR and in the later years are in excess of LIBOR.
The financing costs are, however, allocated over the 25-year period so as to achieve an annual funding cost which is consistent with LIBOR.
The Group has limited rights up to the 25th year of the leases to vary the terms of the leases to buy out the rental obligations based on the properties original sales proceeds.
The leases are reflected in fixed assets at their cost to the Group.
These property lease obligations are secured by a fixed charge over the corresponding Group properties.
Other lease obligations relate mainly to computer software and vehicles leased under hire purchase contracts.
79 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 22 Bank overdraft and borrowings continued ii Maturity of finance leases The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 2 September 2006 3 September 2005 Property Other Property Other leases leases leases leases mm mm Not later than one year 5.9 1.7 6.9 1.0 Later than one year but not more than five years 33.7 2.4 29.9 1.5 More than five years 53.6 0.2 60.3 0.3 93.2 4.3 97.1 2.8 Future charges on finance leases 34.7 0.6 37.6 0.4 58.5 3.7 59.5 2.4 23 Financial instruments Transitional rules for financial instruments The Group has elected to take advantage of the exemption in accordance with IFRS 1, which states that a first-time adopter need not restate its comparative information in compliance with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The Group has adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 4 September 2005.
For the year ended 3 September 2005, the Group continued to apply UK GAAP, and the following financial instrument disclosures have been provided in accordance with FRS13 Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The impact of adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39 is shown in note 2.
Financial year ended 2 September 2006 As previously stated, the Group has adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 4 September 2005.
The following disclosures for the financial year ended 2 September 2006 are made in accordance with those standards.
The financial risks and treasury management information has been disclosed in note 3.
The notional principal amounts and fair values of financial instruments used in interest risk management were as follows: 2 September 2006 Notional principal Book Fair amount value value m m m Primary financial instruments Borrowings: due within one year 36.7 37.0 37.0 due after one year but no more than two years 102.6 102.6 102.6 due after more than two years but no more than five years 960.7 960.7 960.7 due after more than five years 46.0 46.0 46.0 Cash and cash equivalents 34.0 34.0 Derivative financial instruments held to manage interest rate and currency risk Interest rate swaps 957.1 5.5 5.5 Forward foreign currency contracts 120.5 5.3 5.3 Net financial liabilities 1,112.1 1,112.1 80 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 23 Financial instruments continued Net fair values of derivative financial instruments 2 September 2006 Assets Liabilities m m Current Forward foreign currency contracts cash flow hedges 3.3 Forward foreign currency contracts held for trading 2.0 5.3 Non-current Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 7.8 2.3 Total 7.8 7.6 The net fair value losses at 2 September 2006 on open forward foreign exchange contracts that hedge the foreign currency risk of anticipated future inventory purchases are 3.3 million.
This will be recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the acquisition cost of inventory over the next 12 months.
Forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges are reclassified to assets held for trading when the underlying forecast transaction is crystallised on the balance sheet as inventory.
During the year there were no contracts reclassified to assets held for trading due to cash flow hedges being ineffective.
Interest rate swaps The notional principal amount of interest rate swaps outstanding at 2 September 2006 was 957.1 million.
The Groups interest rate swaps swap from floating rates to fixed rates.
The fair value of interest rate swaps has been calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The Groups interest rate swaps mature as follows: Notional Rate m % Maturity Interest rate swap 957.1 4.4776.040 30 November 2006 to 30 November 2011 The net losses on these swaps deferred in equity will reverse through interest in the income statement over the life of the swaps.
Fair value of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities Where market values are not available, the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting future expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying yearend exchange rates.
The carrying amounts of short-term borrowing is approximate to fair value.
81 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 23 Financial instruments continued Maturity and interest rate profiles of financial assets and liabilities The maturity and interest rate profiles of financial assets and liabilities after taking account of interest rate swaps, swapped from floating to fixed rates, used to manage interest were as follows: 2 September 2006 Non-interest Fixed Floating bearing Total m m m m Sterling financial liabilities: due within one year 30.0 7.0 37.0 due after one year but no more than two years 87.8 14.8 102.6 due after more than two years but no more than five years 823.4 137.3 960.7 due after more than five years 19.8 26.2 46.0 Financial liabilities 961.0 185.3 1,146.3 Sterling: cash at bank and in hand 6.8 12.6 2.0 21.4 restricted cash 10.0 0.3 10.3 Euro: cash at bank and in hand 2.0 0.1 2.1 US dollar: cash at bank and in hand 0.2 0.2 Financial assets 16.8 15.1 2.1 34.0 Debt issue costs of 16.2 million are excluded from the financial liabilities above.
The weighted average interest rate on the fixed-rate borrowings as at 2 September 2006 was 5.9 per cent, with the weighted average time for which rates are fixed being 2.6 years.
Floating-rate borrowings are interest bearing at interest rates based on LIBOR.
Sterling and euro cash deposits are interest bearing at rates based on base rates.
Non-interest bearing cash refers to cash in stores.
Floating-rate borrowings have been classified as fixed if there were derivative financial instruments hedging the floating-rate interest for more than one year.
Borrowing facilities as at 2 September 2006 The term loan facility was fully drawn as at 2 September 2006.
218 million of the revolving credit facility remains undrawn as at 2 September 2006.
This facility expires on 19 April 2011.
Both of these facilities incur commitment fees at market rate.
Market price risk The Group monitors interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk by determining the effect on profit of a range of possible changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The range of changes chosen reflects the Groups view of changes that are possible over the financial year.
Assuming no changes in the borrowings and interest rate swaps described above, it is estimated that a rise of 1 per cent in interest rates would have reduced pre-tax profits for the period 2 September 2006 by 2.2 million.
Similarly, assuming no changes in the volumes of imports described above, it is estimated that a 5 per cent decrease in the value of sterling against relevant foreign currencies would have reduced profits for the year by 1.1 million before accounting for any offset from renegotiated supplier contracts and alternative sourcing locations.
82 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 23 Financial instruments continued Financial year ended 3 September 2005 i Financial instrument information for the financial year ended 3 September 2005 The financial risks and treasury management information has been disclosed in note 3.
The maturity and interest rate profiles of financial assets and liabilities after taking account of interest rate swaps, swapped from floating to fixed rates, used to manage interest were as follows: 3 September 2005 Non-interest Fixed Floating bearing Total m m m m Sterling borrowings: due within one year 53.3 27.1 80.4 due after one year but no more than two years 23.4 6.8 30.2 due after more than two years but no more than five years 153.8 45.6 199.4 due after more than five years 1,267.6 374.1 1,641.7 Financial liabilities 1,498.1 453.6 1,951.7 Sterling: cash and cash equivalents 40.4 19.7 2.0 62.1 restricted cash 12.8 12.8 Euro: cash and cash equivalents 1.1 0.1 1.2 Financial assets 53.2 20.8 2.1 76.1 The weighted average interest rate on the fixed rate borrowings as at 3 September 2005 was 7.9 per cent including the cost of the guarantee for the B and C loan notes, with the weighted average time for which rates were fixed being 3.5 years.
Floating-rate borrowings were interest bearing at interest rates based on LIBOR.
Sterling and euro cash deposits were interest bearing at rates based on base rates.
The notional principal amounts and fair values of financial instruments used in interest risk management were as follows: 3 September 2005 Notional principal Book Fair amount value value m m m Primary financial instruments Borrowings: due within one year 30.3 30.3 30.3 due after one year but no more than two years 30.2 30.2 30.2 due after more than two years but no more than five years 249.5 249.5 249.5 due after more than five years 1,641.7 1,641.7 1,643.3 Cash and cash equivalents 76.1 76.1 76.1 Derivative financial instruments held to manage interest rate and currency risk Interest rate swaps 995.6 21.3 Interest rate cap 500.0 0.8 Forward foreign currency contracts 84.5 0.1 Net financial liabilities 1,875.6 1,897.8 83 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 23 Financial instruments continued ii Derivative information for the financial year ended 3 September 2005 Fair values of derivative financial instruments have been calculated at the net present value of future cash flows based on market rates.
The Groups principal exposure to movements in exchange rates relates to foreign currency expenditure made by the Group and foreign currency borrowings.
The Group uses foreign currency forward contracts, options and swaps to hedge this exposure.
As at 3 September 2005, the Group had net monetary liabilities of 19.8 million denominated in US dollars and net monetary assets of 0.4 million denominated in euros.
Unrecognised gains and losses on instruments used for hedging, and the movements during the financial year, were as follows: 3 September 2005 Total Gains Losses net losses m m m Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 29 August 2004 5.3 6.2 0.9 Gains and losses arising in previous years that were recognised during the year 5.3 5.4 0.1 Gains and losses arising in previous years not recognised during the year 0.8 0.8 Gains and losses arising during the year not recognised during the year 2.2 22.0 19.8 Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 3 September 2005 2.2 22.8 20.6 Of which: Gains and losses expected to be recognised within one year 1.4 1.5 0.1 Gains and losses expected to be recognised after more than one year 0.8 21.3 20.5 2.2 22.8 20.6 All the unrecognised losses on the hedging instruments detailed above were expected to be fully matched by gains on the hedged transactions.
iii Borrowing facilities for the financial year ended 3 September 2005 The Group had 72.3 million under the senior term loan tranche A facility which was undrawn at 3 September 2005, this facility could only be drawn to repay the current outstanding B and C loan notes.
Under the senior term loan agreement a 150 million multi-currency revolving credit facility existed.
The facility was due to expire on 31 May 2012.
As at 3 September 2005 141.6 million remained undrawn under this facility.
Both of these facilities incurred commitment fees at market rate.
24 Retirement benefit obligation During the year under review those Debenhams employees who were eligible on the basis of age, contractual hours and length of service were entitled to be members of the Groups UK pension schemes.
These schemes are of the funded, defined benefit type, the assets of which are held in separate trustee administered funds.
In May 2005, it was agreed that 47.4 million of additional contribution would be paid to the Debenhams defined benefit pension schemes DDBPS.
A payment of 29.4 million was made on 26 May 2005, and the balance of 18.0 million was paid on 11 May 2006 following the Companys successful Admission to the London Stock Exchange.
84 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 24 Retirement benefit obligation continued During the year it was agreed that the future benefit structure of the DDBPS would change.
The Group announced its proposals to all employees in July 2006 and issued details of the new arrangements for consultation.
Following consultation, the pension schemes will close for future service accrual from 31 October 2006.
Accrued benefits will be linked to RPI growth each year capped at one per cent over RPI.
The closure to future accrual will not affect the pensions of those who have retired or the deferred benefits of those who have left service or opted out before 31 October 2006.
This amendment to the schemes has created a 4.4 million curtailment credit included within operating profit.
Future pension arrangements will be provided for Debenhams Employees by the Prudential Stakeholder Pension Plan.
The most recent actuarial valuations of the Debenhams Retirement Scheme and the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan were at 31 March 2005.
Actuarial valuations of the Groups pension schemes using the projected unit basis were carried out at 31 March 2005, and updated as at each relevant year end for the purposes of IAS 19 Employee Benefits, by Watson Wyatt Limited, a qualified independent actuary.
The major assumptions used by the actuaries were: 2 September 3 September 28 August 2006 2005 2004 per annum per annum per annum % %% Inflation assumption 2.90 2.60 2.75 General salary and wage increase 3.90 3.60 4.25 Rate of increase in pension payments and deferred payments 2.90 2.60 2.75 Pension increase rate 2.90 2.60 2.75 Discount rate 5.10 5.00 5.75 The expected return on scheme assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for return over the entire life of the defined benefit obligation.
2 September 2006 3 September 2005 28 August 2004 Long-term Long-term Long-term rate of return rate of return rate of return expected expected expected per annum Value per annum Value per annum Value % m % m % m Assets Equities 8.3 325.6 8.00 287.0 8.40 217.8 Bonds 4.4 159.9 4.30 149.3 4.90 123.8 Cash and other assets 4.4 41.6 3.60 17.3 3.75 12.2 Total market value of assets 6.8 527.1 6.6 453.6 7.0 353.8 Present value of scheme liabilities 513.3 463.0 401.2 Surplus deficit in scheme 13.8 9.4 47.4 Assumptions regarding future mortality experiences are based on the mortality tables shown below.
Allowance is made for future improvements to the assumed current rates of mortality which have a financial effect equivalent to a 0.25 per cent per annum reduction in the discount rate used to value liabilities.
2 September 3 September 2006 2005 Male and female Male and female Debenhams Retirement Scheme PMA92C06 2 PMA92C05 2 Debenhams Executive Pension Plan PMA92C06 1 PMA92C05 1 The actual return on plan assets was as follows: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Return on plan assets 52.8 30.0 85 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 24 Retirement benefit obligation continued The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Current service cost 16.3 14.1 Past service cost 0.4 Curtailment credit 4.4 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 22.7 22.7 Expected return on pension scheme assets 29.2 24.7 Total included within staff costs note 9 5.4 12.5 The total charge has been included as follows: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Cost of sales 3.1 10.6 Distribution costs 0.1 0.7 Administrative expenses 2.2 1.2 Total charge 5.4 12.5 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Present value of obligation at start of year 463.0 401.2 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 22.7 22.7 Current service cost 16.3 14.1 Actual member contributions 2.8 2.8 Actual benefit payments by the fund 13.7 15.7 Past service cost 0.4 Curtailment credit 4.4 Losses on change of assumptions 22.9 34.7 Experience losses 3.7 2.8 Present value of obligation at end of year 513.3 463.0 Changes in the fair value of pension scheme assets are as follows: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Fair value in pension scheme assets at start of year 453.6 353.8 Benefits paid 13.7 15.7 Contributions 34.4 44.8 Expected return on pension scheme assets 29.2 24.7 Actuarial gains 23.6 46.0 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 527.1 453.6 Movement in deficit during the year 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Deficit in the schemes at start of year 9.4 47.4 Movement in year: Pension charge 5.4 12.5 Contributions 31.6 42.0 Actuarial loss gain 3.0 8.5 Surplus deficit in the schemes at end of year 13.8 9.4 86 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 24 Retirement benefit obligation continued Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m At the start of the year 26.6 18.1 Net actuarial losses gains recognised in the year 3.0 8.5 Net actuarial gains recognised in the year 23.6 26.6 History of experience gains and losses 2 September 3 September 28 August 30 August 2006 2005 2004 2003 Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets 23.6m 46.0m 3.1m 1.6 m Percentage of scheme assets 4.5% 10.1% 0.9% 0.5 % Experience losses on scheme liabilities 3.7 m 2.8 m 1.9 m 4.4 m Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 0.7 % 0.6 % 0.5 % 1.2 % Total actuarial loss gain recognised in statement of recognised income and expenses 3.0 m 8.5m 11.2m 20.0 m Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 0.6 % 1.8% 2.7% 5.3 % The contributions expected to be paid during the year ended 1 September 2007 amounts to 7.2 million.
Debenhams stakeholder pension schemes The Group contributions to the schemes during the year were 0.5 million 2005: 0.1 million.
25 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 30 per cent.
2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Deferred tax assets 51.1 58.9 Deferred tax liabilities 84.8 73.8 33.7 14.9 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below: Developers contribution Fair value Retirement Other Share-based received gains benefit provisions payments Total Assets m m m m m m At 29 August 2004 35.1 2.6 14.2 4.6 0.8 57.3 Charged credited to the income statement 1.5 1.3 2.2 3.9 1.8 0.7 Charged to the statement of recognised income and expenses 2.5 2.5 Credited to equity 3.4 3.4 At 3 September 2005 33.6 1.3 9.5 8.5 6.0 58.9 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 5.4 5.4 At 4 September 2005 33.6 6.7 9.5 8.5 6.0 64.3 Credited charged to the income statement 1.5 0.6 8.1 5.0 0.9 1.9 Charged credited to the statement of recognised income and expenses 7.1 0.9 6.2 Charged to equity 5.1 5.1 At 2 September 2006 35.1 0.2 2.3 13.5 51.1 87 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 25 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued Accelerated tax Fair value depreciation Other gains Total Liabilities m m m m At 29 August 2004 98.9 0.4 18.3 117.6 Credited to the income statement 25.1 0.4 18.3 43.8 At 3 September 2005 73.8 73.8 Charged to the income statement 11.0 11.0 At 2 September 2006 84.8 84.8 The deferred tax charged to equity during the year was as follows: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Fair value reserves in shareholders equity: Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 5.4 Hedging reserve 7.1 Deferred tax on pension schemes 0.9 2.5 Deferred tax on share-based payments 5.1 3.4 5.9 0.9 26 Other non-current liabilities 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Other liabilities 161.0 158.8 Other liabilities comprise lease incentives received from landlords either through initial contributions or rent-free periods.
These incentives are being credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
27 Provisions for liabilities and charges Taxation Vacant Closure Other provision properties provisions provisions Total m m m m m At 29 August 2004 2.6 0.5 5.4 4.5 13.0 Charged to the income statement 0.7 0.8 1.5 Utilised during the financial year 2.6 1.3 1.4 5.3 At 3 September 2005 1.2 4.9 3.1 9.2 Utilised during the financial year 0.3 1.3 1.4 3.0 At 2 September 2006 0.9 3.6 1.7 6.2 Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 m m Current 4.7 6.8 Non-current 1.5 2.4 6.2 9.2 Taxation provision The taxation provision represented potential liabilities surrounding the VAT treatment of intra-group transactions.
Vacant properties Provision for vacant properties represents the residual lease commitments, after taking into account existing sub-lease arrangements, in respect of three properties and will be utilised over the remaining term of the leases which expire in March 2007, August 2009 and September 2009 respectively.
88 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 27 Provisions for liabilities and charges continued Closure provision The termination of a number of operations resulted in closure costs predominantly related to the closure of all remaining own-bought media outlets, the cessation of the Groups mail order catalogue and the closure of distribution outlets.
This provision is short-term in nature.
Other provisions The majority of the Groups other provisions relate to dilapidations on properties based upon the directors best estimate of the Groups future liability.
The remainder of the other provisions, none of which are individually significant, represent the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle present obligations in respect of other liabilities.
These provisions are short-term in nature and are expected to be utilised within the next 12 months.
28 Share capital 2 September 2006 3 September 2005 Number Number Authorised Ordinary shares of 0.0001 2005: 0.001 each 128,846 1,288,461,539 10,000 10,000,000 Governance shares of 0.01 each 1,000 100,000 Subscriber shares of 1.00 each 3 3 128,846 1,288,461,539 11,003 10,100,003 2 September 2006 3 September 2005 Number Number Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 0.0001 2005: 0.001 each 85,897 858,974,359 10,000 10,000,000 Governance shares of 0.01 each 1,000 100,000 Subscriber shares of 1.00 each 3 3 85,897 858,974,359 11,003 10,100,003 Ordinary shares Number of shares Share issued on incorporation Share-for-share exchange on acquisition of Debenhams 10,000 10,000,000 At 3 September 2005 10,000 10,000,000 Bonus issue of shares 40,000 40,000,000 Incremental shares on subdivision 450,000,000 Allotted on Admission to the London Stock Exchange 35,897 358,974,359 At 2 September 2006 85,897 858,974,359 The Company was incorporated on 10 May 2005, at which time the subscriber shares were issued.
On 26 May 2005 as part of the acquisition of the Baroness Group 2005 Acquisition, 10,000,000 ordinary shares and 100,000 governance shares were issued.
On 5 April 2006, the directors approved a bonus issue of four ordinary shares for one ordinary share held.
The new ordinary shares had a nominal value of 0.001.
The increase in share capital was effected by a bonus issue of 40,000, using retained earnings to fully pay up the newly issued shares.
On 3 May 2006, the authorised share capital of the Company was increased by 77,843.15 and each of the issued and unissued ordinary shares of 0.001 was subdivided into ten ordinary shares of 0.0001 each.
On 9 May 2006 following the Companys Admission to the London Stock Exchange 358,974,359 shares were issued at 1.95 per share.
The consideration received on issuing these shares was 700 million, with costs of 17.1 million, which directly relate to the issue of new shares, being set off against the share premium account.
89 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 28 Share capital continued On Admission the governance shares and the subscriber shares were transferred by the holders to the Company for nil consideration and cancelled.
Employee share trust interest in share capital The number of ordinary shares in the Company held by the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 and the Baroness Employee Limited Partnership, in connection with the Groups employee ownership plan described below, were as follows: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Number Number Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 3,290,535 216,928 Baroness Employee Limited Partnership 13,226,985 377,913 16,517,520 594,841 The market value of the shares held by the two trusts on 2 September 2006 were 6.2 million for DRET and 24.9 million for BELP.
The cost of these shares were 548,000 for DRET and 26,000 for BELP.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of employee share ownership plans to grant options and shares to its directors and employees.
The total income statement charge for the year recognised in respect of these share ownership plans is 14.3 million 2005: 5.5 million.
The Group had three share option schemes together with the Baroness Employee Limited Partnership in operation during the year.
i The Debenhams Performance Share Plan the PSP The PSP is intended to facilitate the retention of senior executives of the Company by enabling executives to receive shares provided that they remain in the Group for a period of three years from the date of grant.
No payment will be required for the grant of an award.
An award under the PSP will comprise an option to receive free shares or a nil cost option with performance conditions attached.
The vesting on half of the shares granted is dependent on earnings per share EPS growth.
In accordance with IFRS 2 this is classified as a non-market condition and therefore the shares have been fair valued at face value.
The vesting of the remaining half of the shares is dependent upon total shareholder return TSR over a three-year period when compared to total shareholder return of the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index.
The fair value of the PSP options granted for this proportion of the award is calculated based on a Monte Carlo simulation model assuming the inputs shown below: EPS TSR Grant date: 9 May 2006 9 May 2006 6 June 2006 6 June 2006 Number of shares under option number : 9 May 2006 1,662,383 1,662,384 6 June 2006 1,556 1,557 Expected term years 2.3 2.3 Share price at grant pence : 9 May 2006 205.0 205.0 6 June 2006 185.0 185.0 Exercise price pence Risk free rate: 9 May 2006 4.8% 4.8% 6 June 2006 4.7% 4.7% Expected volatility 21.0% 21.0% Expected dividend yield 3.5% 3.5% Fair value of option pence : 9 May 2006 189.0 82.8 6 June 2006 171.1 76.4 90 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 28 Share capital continued ii Executive Share Option Plan the ESOP The ESOP allows the Company to grant options to acquire shares to eligible employees.
These options will become exercisable following a three-year performance period beginning in September 2005 but only if and to the extent that the performance conditions to which they are subject have been satisfied.
Options were granted with an exercise price equal to market value of the shares at the date the options were granted.
The vesting of options granted under this plan is dependent on EPS growth, the fair value of the share options has been calculated using a binomial model.
The key assumptions are as follows: Grant date: 9 May 2006 6 June 2006 Number of shares under option number 2,834,929 58,870 Expected term years 6 6 Share price at grant pence 205 185 Exercise price pence 205 185 Risk free rate: 4.8% 4.7% Expected volatility 24.0% 24.0% Expected dividend yield 3.5% 3.5% Fair value of option pence 45.2 40.5 iii Debenhams Employee Option Plan DEOP The DEOP option scheme was introduced on 3 September 2004 options were awarded to certain management of the Group.
The DRET holds shares to satisfy the exercise options granted under DEOP.
Options were awarded at the discretion of the Groups Remuneration Committee and were awarded to any employee within the Group at any point in time.
The contractual life of the options is ten years.
The condition associated with the award of the options is that the recipients must be employed by the Group when the options vest.
Fifty per cent of the options vested on Debenhams plc Admission to the London Stock Exchange, with the remaining options vesting 365 days after Admission.
No further awards will be made under this scheme.
At the date of grant in September 2004 the options were valued using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: Date of grant Number of employees 327 Expected volatility 15.1% Expected life months 51 Risk-free interest rate 4.7% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield Possibility of ceasing employment before vesting Fair value per ordinary unit in Baroness Group Limited Partnership 105.75 Fair value per option equity element per option 0.182 91 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 28 Share capital continued The expected volatility is based on the FTSE All Share Consumer Service Index, which comprises 124 members, over the last three years.
The risk-free interest rate is based on a 4.5-year gilt-rate bond at the time the options were issued.
The dividend yield is assumed to be nil as neither the equity component nor the debt element of the underlying option securities are expected to pay out dividends or coupons over their life.
All of the options have an exercise price of 10 pence.
The charge in respect of the equitysettled element of the options was being recognised in the income statement over the vesting period from the date of grant to the date of flotation, being 9 May 2006.
The value of the cash-settled element of the award is the value attributable to the A loan notes under option.
As part of the 2005 Acquisition the A loan notes of 12.8 million which were issued to the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust DRET were immediately repaid in full on 26 May 2005.
On settlement of the options, the option holders will receive in cash an amount equivalent to the A loan notes issued to DRET on the option holders behalf.
The modification has resulted in a charge to the income statement that relates to the A loan notes that have been allocated to employees, rather than the total received by the Trust.
The charge was being spread over the vesting period, being from the date of the original grant to the date of flotation of Debenhams plc.
iv Baroness Employee Limited Partnership BELP In June 2004, senior management of the Group were invited by the Remuneration Committee to invest in the Group through the purchase of units in the BELP.
Management purchased their holding in the Group at fair value and therefore no equity-based costs arose in relation to these awards.
The partnership is closed to new entrants.
On 16 May 2005, the Group was reorganised with Debenhams plc formerly Debenhams Retail Holdings Limited being the new parent company of the Group.
The Group reorganisation involved shares being exchanged for shares and loan notes issued by the Company.
In the case of the BELP, a share was exchanged for a share and a C loan note in the Company.
In total, C loan notes of 22.3 million were issued to the BELP.
For accounting purposes, this resulted in the modification of the original equity-settled share-based payment, with the newly created loan note element of the award being treated as a cash-settled share-based payment.
The total value of the cash-settled element of the award is the value attributable to the C loan notes of 22.3 million issued to BELP and the charge was spread over the vesting period, being from the date of the original investment to the date of flotation of Debenhams plc.
Outstanding options The following table reconciled the number of share options outstanding at the year end: PSP ESOP DEOP Financial year ended 2 September 2006 Number Number Number Outstanding at 4 September 2005 142,954 Granted 3,353,565 2,975,121 550,271 Exercised 3,412,307 Forfeited 25,685 81,322 85,750 Share split 6,142,140 Outstanding at 2 September 2006 3,327,880 2,893,799 3,337,308 The share split occurred on 5 April 2006 following the bonus issue of four ordinary shares for every share held and on 3 May 2006 when each ordinary share was subdivided into ten ordinary shares.
92 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 28 Share capital continued DEOP Financial year ended 3 September 2005 Number Outstanding at 29 August 2004 Granted 15,652 Forfeited 1,332 Outstanding at 15 May 2005 14,320 Converted on 16 May 2005 143,189 Granted 4,615 Forfeited 4,850 Outstanding 3 September 2005 142,954 On 16 May 2005 one ordinary unit in Baroness Group Limited Partnership was exchanged for 9.9999 shares in Baroness Group Holdings Limited.
Prior to the conversion, certain employees held options over fractions of ordinary units in Baroness Group Limited Partnership whereas following the exchange, options could only be held over a whole number of shares.
On 16 May 2005 options over ordinary shares in Baroness Group Holdings Limited were exchanged for options over ordinary shares in Debenhams plc formerly Debenhams Retail Holdings Limited Share-based payments charge The total charge to the operating profit relating to share-based payment transactions were: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m DEOP equity-settled element 1.5 0.8 DEOP cash-settled element 3.7 1.4 BELP cash-settled element 8.5 3.3 Performance Share Plan 2006 equity-settled element 0.5 Executive Share Option Plan equity-settled element 0.1 Charge for the year 14.3 5.5 The following amounts were charged directly to equity as a result of the modification of the awards following the Group reorganisation in May 2005.
2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Cash-settled element A loan notes 3.7 Cash-settled element C loan notes 8.5 12.2 93 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 29 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity Reverse Share Share Retained Merger acquisition Hedging Other capital premium earnings reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m m m Balance at 29 August 2004 1.0 249.5 248.5 Profit for the financial year 123.7 123.7 Actuarial gain in pension schemes note 24 8.5 8.5 Movement in deferred tax relating to pension schemes note 25 2.5 2.5 Total recognised income for the financial year 129.7 129.7 Acquisition by Debenhams plc 1.0 1,200.9 1,199.9 Employee share ownership plans net of tax 7.8 7.8 26 May 2005 refinancing appropriation 589.2 589.2 A loan notes held by DRET 12.8 12.8 C loan notes held by BELP 22.3 22.3 At 3 September 2005 681.7 1,200.9 1,199.9 680.7 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 note 2 2.3 14.9 1.0 11.6 At 4 September 2005 679.4 1,200.9 1,199.9 14.9 1.0 692.3 Profit for the financial year 43.7 43.7 Actuarial loss in pension schemes note 24 3.0 3.0 Movement in deferred tax relating to pension schemes note 25 0.9 0.9 Cash flow hedges: net fair value gains net of tax 15.8 15.8 recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the acquisition cost of inventory 0.2 0.2 reclassified and reported in net profit 0.8 0.8 Total recognised income for the financial year 41.6 16.4 58.0 Issue of shares 0.1 682.9 683.0 Share options value of employee services 2.1 2.1 Purchase of treasury shares for DRET 2.0 2.0 C loan notes held by BELP 22.3 22.3 Value of employee services for loan notes issued net of tax 26.8 26.8 Balance at 2 September 2006 0.1 682.9 633.2 1,200.9 1,199.9 1.5 1.0 53.3 Share premium account On Admission to the London Stock Exchange the Company issued 358,974,359 shares at 1.95, generating proceeds of 700 million.
Costs directly associated with the issue of the new shares totalled 17.1 million and in accordance with the Companies Act these costs have been set off against the premium generated on issue of the new shares.
94 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 29 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity continued Merger reserve The merger reserve of 1,200.9 million exists as a result of the 2005 Acquisition.
The merger reserve represents the difference between both the nominal value of the share capital and loan notes issued by the Company and the fair value of Baroness Group Holdings Limited Group at 24 May 2005, the date of the 2005 Acquisition note 32.
Reverse acquisition reserve The reverse acquisition reserve exists as a result of the method of accounting for the 2005 Acquisition.
In accordance with International Accounting Standards the 2005 Acquisition has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve represents the change in fair value of all interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts which have been designated as cash flow hedges.
Other reserves Other reserves represent the change in fair value in respect of the Groups available-for-sale investments see note 17.
Retained earnings Financial year ended 2 September 2006 As at 2 September 2006, 0.2 million 2005: 22.3 million of C notes issued by the Company were held by the BELP and have been eliminated on consolidation of the Partnership.
Fixed interest on the notes were charged at 4.8 per cent and a collateral deposit guarantees the principal.
Financial year ended 3 September 2005 The appropriation of 589.2 million in the financial year ended 3 September 2005 represents the A, B and C loan notes issued as part of the 2005 Acquisition.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the 2005 Acquisition has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition and the loan notes have been treated as an appropriation representing the value transferred outside of the Group as a result of the acquisition.
During the financial year ended 3 September 2005, employee share ownership plans were established.
The number of ordinary units or ordinary shares held by the Group in respect of these plans is disclosed in note 28.
On 24 May 2005 the ordinary units in Baroness Group Limited Partnership held by DRET were converted into 216,928 shares in the Company and 12.8 million A loan notes and the ordinary units in Baroness Group Limited Partnership held by BELP were converted into 377,913 shares in the Company and 22.3 million C loan notes.
The A loan notes were subsequently repaid resulting in a cash balance of 12.8 million being held by the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust.
DRET and BELP are consolidated in the results of the Group.
95 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 30 Operating lease and capital commitments 2 September 2006 3 September 2005 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 113.0 1.4 105.6 1.6 Later than one year and less than five years 489.1 2.0 437.5 2.4 After five years 3,483.1 3,246.4 4,085.2 3.4 3,789.5 4.0 The Group leases departmental stores and warehouses under non-cancellable operating leases.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases vehicles and fixtures and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
31 Cash generated from operations 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Profit for the financial year 43.7 123.7 Taxation note 12 18.4 36.1 Depreciation note 16 86.0 85.4 Amortisation note 15 5.1 3.8 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 2.7 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 0.3 Profit on deemed disposal of subsidiary 117.7 Employee options granted during the year 2.8 Discretionary bonus granted during the year 1.1 Fair value gains on derivative instruments 1.9 Swap costs 0.8 Net movements in provisions for liabilities and charges note 27 3.0 3.8 Interest income note 10 7.3 7.4 Interest expense note 11 168.8 261.1 Difference between pension charge and contributions paid note 24 26.2 29.5 Net movement in other non-current liabilities 2.2 15.3 Changes in working capital Increase in inventories 10.6 29.8 Increase in trade and other receivables 8.2 6.8 Increase in trade and other payables 43.2 120.7 Cash generated from operations 317.0 381.9 In the cash flow statement, proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment comprise: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Net book amount note 16 402.0 Deemed disposal of subsidiary 373.2 Profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 2.7 Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 26.1 96 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 31 Cash generated from operations continued In the cash flow statement exceptional cash items are as follows: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Cash generated from operations includes payments for: Admission to the London Stock Exchange 3.8 Additional pension contribution 18.0 29.4 Red Letter Day 2.6 Other exceptional cash outflows 0.7 Interest paid included: 2006 refinancing premium on early repayment of senior term loan note 8 2.1 2006 refinancing cost of restructuring interest rate swaps 0.3 2006 refinancing debt issue costs 14.1 2005 refinancing make-whole premium note 8 70.6 2005 refinancing debt issue costs 39.1 Financial year ended 2 September 2006 Payments for professional advice, bonuses and advisory services relating to the Companys Admission to the London Stock Exchange totalled 3.8 million.
The remaining 0.8 million of exceptional costs included in note 8 will be paid after the year end.
Additional pension contribution As part of the refinancing in May 2005 it was agreed that 47.4 million of additional contribution would be paid to the Debenhams defined benefit pension schemes DDBPS.
A payment of 29.4 million was paid on refinancing on 26 May 2005, and the balance of 18.0 million was paid on 11 May 2006 following the Companys successful Admission to the London Stock Exchange.
2006 refinancing On refinancing 2.1 million was paid relating to the early repayment of the senior credit facility.
As a result of the refinancing a number of interest rate swaps were either closed out or restructured, generating cash of 0.3 million.
Debt issue costs capitalised in respect of the refinancing on 30 May 2006 amounted to 14.1 million.
The remaining 3.1 million of debt issue costs included in note 22 will be paid after the year end.
Financial year ended 3 September 2005 Additional pension contribution on refinancing On refinancing it was agreed that 47.4 million of additional contribution would be paid to the Debenhams defined benefit pension schemes DDBPS.
A payment of 29.4 million was made to the DDBPS on 26 May 2005.
Red Letter Day A payment of 2.6 million was paid to Red Letter Day after this supplier went into administration see note 8.
Other The Group paid legal and professional costs totalling 0.7 million in relation to the 2005 refinancing see note 8.
The remaining 1.1 million of exceptional costs included in note 8 were accrued at 3 September 2005 and paid in the year ended 2 September 2006.
2005 refinancing The repayment of the high-yield bond in June 2005 included a make-whole premium of 70.6 million, which arose due to the early repayment of the bonds see note 8.
Debt issue costs capitalised in respect of the 2005 refinancing amounted to 39.1 million see note 22.
97 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 31 Cash generated from operations continued Non-cash transactions Other non-cash changes comprise: 2 September 3 September 2006 2005 52 weeks 53 weeks m m Amortisation of issue costs relating to debt issues 5.1 30.5 Exceptional write off of issue costs on refinancing 33.5 Non-cash movements associated with finance lease obligations 0.3 0.4 Transfer of accrued interest to net debt on adoption of IAS 32 and 39 0.4 Transfer of mortgage facility on deemed disposal of subsidiary 363.5 Exchange rate movements 0.3 Non-cash transactions 39.3 332.3 32 Acquisition and reorganisation On 24 May 2005, the Company, being newly incorporated on 10 May 2005, acquired the entire share capital of Baroness Group Holdings Limited by means of a share-for-share exchange.
The shareholders in Baroness Group Holdings Limited received shares and loan notes in the Company in direct proportion to their original shareholding in Baroness Group Holdings Limited.
The loan notes issued on acquisition amounted to 589.2 million, comprising, 516.8 million A loan notes, 50.1 million B loan notes and 22.3 million C loan notes.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, this transaction has been accounted as a reverse acquisition.
The key features of this basis of consolidation are: The consolidated IFRS financial statement is a continuation of the financial statement of Baroness Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries and the retained earnings recognised are a continuation of those of Baroness Group Holdings Limited immediately before the business combination.
The consolidated income statement for the 53 weeks ended 3 September 2005 includes the results of Baroness Group Holdings Limited for the 53 weeks ended 3 September 2005 and of Debenhams plc from 24 May 2005, the date of the reverse acquisition.
The assets and liabilities of Baroness Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries are measured based on their pre-combination carrying amounts.
The equity structure appearing in this consolidated financial statement reflects the equity structure of the legal parent, Debenhams plc.
Debenhams plc has been consolidated from the date of the reverse acquisition using the fair value of its assets and liabilities at that date.
The cost of the acquisition was nil and no goodwill arose on the acquisition.
At the date of the 2005 Acquisition, Debenhams plc held 3 of cash and had issued three 1 subscriber shares.
No other assets or liabilities existed on acquisition.
The issue of loan notes in connection with the 2005 Acquisition has been accounted for as an appropriation of shareholders funds.
98 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 33 Related party disclosures The controlling and related parties held deep discounted bonds, which were repaid in full on 26 May 2005.
The payments and amounts owed to these related parties at each period end were as follows: 3 September 2005 DDB repayments in the period m CVC 192.7 TPG 225.5 MLGPE 123.1 C Woodhouse 1.8 R Templeman 2.2 J Lovering 1.4 BELP 1.1 DRET 9.2 As a result of the 2005 Acquisition the shareholders of Baroness Group Holdings Limited received shares and loan notes in the Company in exchange for their shareholding in Baroness Group Holdings Limited.
The shares and loan notes received were in direct proportion to each partys shareholding in Baroness Group Holdings Limited.
Funds managed or advised by CVC, TPG and MLGPE received loan notes to the value of 178.8 million, 210.3 million and 114.8 million respectively on reorganisation.
On 26 May 2005 the Group refinanced its debt structure and the loan notes to the controlling parties were repaid in full.
Interest at a fixed rate of 4.8 per cent per annum was charged on the loan notes.
On repayment of the loan notes interest of 47,000, 55,000 and 30,000 was paid to funds managed by CVC, TPG and MLGPE respectively.
The figures attributable to CVC, above, include warrants paid to CVC Shareholder Group and third-party investment vehicles controlled by Standard Life being European Strategic Partners LP, European Strategic Partners Scottish B LP, European Partners Scottish C LP, ESP Co-Investment LP, European Strategic Partners 1-LP and ESP Conduit LP and TCW being TCW Crescent Mezzanine Partners III LP, TCW Crescent Mezzanine Trust LP and TCW Crescent Mezzanine Partners LP, to which the CVC Shareholders Group syndicated a portion of its original investment.
34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS The Group reported under UK GAAP in its previously published financial statements for the period ended 3 September 2005.
The analysis below shows a reconciliation of net assets and profit as reported under UK GAAP as at 3 September 2005 to the revised net assets and profit under IFRS as reported in these financial statements.
In addition, there is a reconciliation of net assets under UK GAAP to IFRS at the transition date for this Group, being 29 August 2004.
Exemptions from full retrospective application elected by the Group IFRS 1 provides a number of optional exemptions to the general principles of full retrospective application of IFRS.
The Group has elected to take advantage of the following optional exemptions from full retrospective application at the date of transition.
Business combinations A first-time adopter may elect not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations retrospectively to business combinations that occurred before the date of transition to IFRS.
The Group has elected to take advantage of this exemption.
Business combinations that occurred before the date of transition have been consolidated in accordance with UK GAAP.
Any unamortised goodwill at 29 August 2004 has been recognised in the IFRS financial statement at amortised cost.
Financial instruments In its first financial statements a first-time adopter need not restate its comparative information in compliance with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Reconciliations of UK GAAP to IFRS The Group has prepared reconciliations between the shareholders equity recognised under UK GAAP and under IFRS at 29 August 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, and as at 3 September 2005.
The UK GAAP financial statement has been extracted from the previously published UK GAAP financial statement for the period ended 3 September 2005.
99 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued Debenhams plc formerly Debenhams Retail Holdings Limited was incorporated on 10 May 2005.
As a result, there is no UK GAAP consolidated balance sheet for the Group at 29 August 2004.
However, under IFRS, the acquisition of the Debenhams Group on 24 May 2005 is treated as a reverse acquisition, and therefore, an IFRS comparative balance sheet at this date has been presented.
The adjustments have been split into four different categories: IFRS 3 Business Combinations, effects of presentation items, effects of measurement items, and other items.
Reconciliation of equity at 29 August 2004 UK GAAP Effects of Effects of IFRS 29 August presentation measurement 29 August 2004 IFRS 3 items items Other 2004 m m m m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 800.0 b 6.9 d 806.9 Property, plant and equipment 1,038.9 b 6.9 d 1,032.0 Deferred tax asset 3.9 b 39.3 k, l, m 14.2 n 57.4 1,842.8 39.3 14.2 1,896.3 Current assets Inventories 167.4 b 167.4 Trade and other receivables 62.4 b 14.4 n 48.0 Cash and cash equivalents 159.3 b 159.3 389.1 14.4 374.7 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Financial liabilities bank overdraft and borrowings 43.1 b 43.1 Trade and other payables 359.9 b 34.2 k, m 325.7 Provisions 4.8 g 4.8 i 403.0 4.8 34.2 373.6 Net current liabilities assets 13.9 4.8 34.2 14.4 1.1 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities bank overdraft and borrowings 1,829.2 b 1,829.2 Deferred tax liabilities 99.4 b, c 18.2 j 117.6 Other non-current liabilities 143.5 k, l 143.5 Provisions 13.0 b 4.8 g 8.2 Defined benefit obligation 47.4 n 47.4 1,941.6 4.8 161.7 47.4 2,145.9 Net liabilities 112.7 88.2 47.6 248.5 SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Share premium 1.0 b 1.0 Retained earnings 113.7 88.2 47.6 249.5 Total equity 112.7 88.2 47.6 248.5 100 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued Reconciliation of equity at 3 September 2005 UK GAAP Effects of Effects of IFRS 3 September presentation measurement 3 September 2005 IFRS 3 items items Other 2005 m m m m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 2,504.5 1,692.6 a, b 18.0 d 829.9 Property, plant and equipment 668.0 18.0 d 650.0 Financial assets available-for-sale investments 7.2 7.2 Deferred tax asset 11.9 e, f 47.0 k, l, m 58.9 3,179.7 1,692.6 11.9 47.0 1,546.0 Current assets Inventories 197.2 197.2 Trade and other receivables 56.4 1.9 b 54.5 Current tax asset Cash and cash equivalents 63.3 12.8 o 76.1 316.9 1.9 12.8 327.8 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Financial liabilities bank overdraft and borrowings 24.9 50.1 b 75.0 Trade and other payables 400.7 12.1 k, m 388.6 Current tax liabilities 0.6 0.6 Provisions 6.8 g 6.8 426.2 50.1 6.8 12.1 471.0 Net current liabilities 109.3 52.0 6.8 12.1 12.8 143.2 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities bank overdraft and borrowings 1,911.5 72.4 b 1,839.1 Deferred tax liabilities 12.6 58.8 b, c 2.4 e 73.8 Other non-current liabilities 158.8 k, l 158.8 Provisions 18.8 9.6 b 6.8 g 2.4 Retirement benefit obligation 0.1 9.5 f 9.4 1,942.8 23.2 5.1 158.8 2,083.5 Net assets liabilities 1,127.6 1,721.4 99.7 12.8 680.7 SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Share capital Merger reserve 1,200.9 1,200.9 Reverse acquisition reserve 1,199.9 b 1,199.9 Retained earnings 73.3 521.5 99.7 12.8 681.7 Total equity 1,127.6 1,721.4 99.7 12.8 680.7 101 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 3 September 2005 UK GAAP Effects of Effects of IFRS 3September  3September 2005 IFRS 3 items items Other 2005 m m m m m m Revenue 399.8 1,208.9 b 1,608.7 Cost of sales 329.1 938.0 b 2.3 f 25.3 k, l, m 5.9 n 1,296.0 Analysed as: Cost of sales before exceptional items 326.5 938.0 2.3 25.3 5.9 1,293.4 Exceptional cost of sales 2.6 2.6 Gross profit 70.7 270.9 2.3 25.3 5.9 312.7 Distribution costs 12.2 31.3 b 43.5 Administrative expenses 39.9 4.0 a, b 0.5 f 0.9 m 1.3 n 45.6 Analysed as: Administrative expenses before exceptional costs 38.7 3.4 0.5 0.9 1.3 43.8 Exceptional administrative expenses 1.2 0.6 1.8 Operating profit before deemed disposal of subsidiary 18.6 235.6 2.8 26.2 7.2 223.6 Profit on deemed disposal of subsidiary 117.7 b 117.7 Operating profit 18.6 353.3 2.8 26.2 7.2 341.3 Analysed as: Operating profit before exceptional items 22.4 236.2 2.8 26.2 7.2 228.0 Exceptional operating profit 3.8 117.1 113.3 Other finance income 1.8 2.8 f 1.0 n Interest receivable and similar income 5.8 b 1.6 h 7.4 Interest payable and similar charges 138.1 121.4 b 1.6 h 261.1 Analysed as: Interest payable and similar charges before exceptional items 45.2 121.4 1.6 168.2 Exceptional interest payable and similar charges 92.9 92.9 Loss profit before taxation 117.7 237.7 26.2 6.2 87.6 Taxation 25.9 12.2 b, c 22.4 j, k, l, m 36.1 Analysed as: Taxation before exceptional items 3.1 30.0 4.2 28.9 Taxation credit on exceptional items 29.0 17.8 18.2 65.0 Loss profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders 91.8 225.5 3.8 6.2 123.7 102 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued Reconciliation of cash flows for the year ended 3 September 2005 UK GAAP Business 3 September 3 September combiPresen- 2005 2005 nations tation Other 53 weeks m m m m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 94.6 287.3 b 381.9 Interest received 1.6 6.5 b 8.1 Interest paid 194.8 103.8 b 38.4 i 337.0 Tax paid 0.1 10.3 b 10.4 Finance costs 38.4 38.4 i Net cash generated from operating activities 137.1 179.7 42.6 Cash flows from investing activities Net cash received on deemed disposal of subsidiary 121.8 b 121.8 Net cash at bank acquired with subsidiary 168.5 168.5 b Purchase of property, plant and equipment 32.0 82.2 b 114.2 Purchase of stores 34.0 b 34.0 Proceeds from sale of freehold properties 22.0 b 22.0 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 3.6 22.5 b 26.1 Purchase of investments 4.2 b 4.2 Net cash used generated from investing activities 140.1 122.6 17.5 Cash flows from financing activities Drawdown of senior term loan 1,827.6 1,827.6 Mortgage facility repayment 5.7 b 5.7 Repayment of senior loan facilities 533.2 87.8 b 621.0 Appropriation settlement of A loan notes 516.7 0.1 b 516.8 Restricted cash held in DRET 12.8 o 12.8 Repayment of deep discounted bonds 402.8 111.5 b 514.3 Repayment of high-yield bonds 326.7 326.7 Net cash used in financing activities 48.2 205.1 12.8 144.1 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 51.2 148.0 12.8 84.0 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 148.0 b 148.0 Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 51.2 12.8 64.0 103 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued Reconciliation of profit for the financial year Group 2005 Note m Loss for the financial year reported under UK GAAP 91.8 Reverse acquisition accounting b 160.4 Goodwill amortisation a 63.2 Deferred tax adjustments c, j 20.1 Lease classification and incentives net of tax k 11.3 Escalating leases net of tax l 6.8 Adoption of FRS 17 n 6.2 Share-based payments net of tax m 3.9 Profit reported under IFRS 123.7 Explanation of reconciling items between UK GAAP and IFRS IFRS 3 Business Combinations a Under UK GAAP, goodwill was amortised over its estimated expected useful life of 20 years.
Under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, goodwill is considered to have an indefinite life and so is not amortised, but is subject to annual impairment testing.
The goodwill charge made under UK GAAP has not been recorded under IFRS from 29 August 2004, the IFRS transition date.
The IFRS restatement results in a reduction in the amortisation charge, within administration expenses, of 63.2 million for the year ended 3 September 2005, and a corresponding increase in goodwill as at 3 September 2005. b Under UK GAAP, the 2005 Acquisition was accounted for as an acquisition by the Company of Baroness Group Holdings Limited.
Total goodwill of 2,536.0 million was recognised at the date of the acquisition, calculated as the difference between the fair value of the consideration comprising the shares and loan notes issued by the Company and the fair value of the identifiable net liabilities of Baroness Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries.
Under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the 2005 Acquisition has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition, and for accounting purposes the legal subsidiary, Baroness Group Holdings Limited has been deemed to have acquired the legal parent, Debenhams plc.
The net assets of Baroness Group Holdings Limited have been recognised at their pre-combination carrying amounts, the cost of the acquisition was nil and there was no goodwill arising.
The consideration for the acquisition was satisfied by the issue of shares 1,200.9 million and 589.2 million loan notes.
At 3 September 2005, the 22.3 million C loan notes outstanding have been transferred to equity and the 50.1 million B loan notes have been reclassified as a current liability as at 3 September 2005.
Fair value adjustments created at the time of the acquisition have been released resulting in an increase to deferred tax liabilities of 2.3 million, a reduction in non-current provisions of 9.6 million, and a reduction in other receivables of 1.9 million as at 3 September 2005.
These releases also resulted in a reduction in cost of sales for the year ended 3 September 2005 of 0.5 million, an increase in interest payable and similar charges of 0.8 million, and a reduction in the tax charge of 0.3 million.
As a result of applying reverse acquisition accounting, the consolidated IFRS financial information of Debenhams plc is a continuation of the financial information of Baroness Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries.
The retained earnings shown as at 3 September 2005 are those for Baroness Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries and a reverse acquisition reserve of 1,199.9 million has been created.
Adjustments in the statement of income and expenditure representing the trading prior to the reverse acquisition resulted in an increase in: turnover of 1,208.9 million, cost of sales of 938.5 million, distribution expenses of 31.3 million, administrative expenses of 67.2 million, profit on deemed disposal of a subsidiary of 117.7 million, interest receivable and similar income of 5.8 million, interest payable and similar charges of 120.6 million and an increase in the tax charge of 14.4 million for the year ended 3 September 2005.
104 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued Overall, as at 3 September 2005 under IFRS, retained earnings are 528.2 million lower than under UK GAAP and goodwill is reduced by 1,755.8 million.
As at 29 August 2004, the reverse acquisition resulted in the following changes to the balance sheet: intangible assets increased by 800.0 million, property, plant and equipment increased by 1,038.9 million, deferred tax asset increased by 3.9 million, inventories increased by 167.4 million, trade and other receivables increased by 62.4 million, cash and cash equivalents increased by 159.3 million, current financial liabilities increased by 43.1 million, trade and other payables increased by 359.9 million, non-current financial liabilities increased by 1,829.2 million, deferred tax liabilities increased by 41.0 million and provisions increased by 13.0 million.
The reverse acquisition also resulted in the creation of a share premium account of 1.0 million and a reduction in retained earnings of 113.7 million.
The impact on the cash flow resulting from the inclusion of the nine months prior to the reverse acquisition has no overall effect on the cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year, however, it has resulted in an increase in the opening position of 148.0 million and an equivalent decrease in the movement in cash and cash equivalents during the year.
c Under IFRS 3 on business combinations, a deferred tax provision is recognised on the difference between the fair value of an acquired asset and its equivalent tax value.
Under UK GAAP, deferred tax is calculated on timing differences and therefore no additional deferred tax effect is required on business combinations where permanent differences exist between the tax value of an acquired asset and its carrying value.
Similarly, IFRS also requires that a deferred tax asset is created for the fair value of developer incentives acquired on a business combination which will not be taxed when released to the income statement.
The effect of this difference is an increase in deferred tax liabilities of 56.5 million as at 3 September 2005 2004: 58.4 million and a reduction in the tax charge for the year ended 3 September 2005 of 1.9 million.
Effects of presentation items d In accordance with IFRS, capitalised software costs have been reclassified from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets.
The impact of the reclassification on transition and at 3 September 2005 was 6.9 million and 18.0 million respectively.
The software depreciation charge of 3.7 million under UK GAAP for the financial year ended 3 September 2005 has been reclassified as amortisation with no net effect on the Groups income statement.
e Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown separately under IFRS.
The effect of this is to increase deferred tax assets by 2.4 million as at 3 September 2005 with a corresponding increase in deferred tax liabilities at those dates.
f Accounting for pensions in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits is different from FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
The main differences are: Under FRS 17, pension balances are presented net of deferred tax on the face of the balance sheet.
Under IFRS these balances are shown separately as a liability for the pension scheme and as an asset for deferred tax.
As a result, the Groups retirement benefit obligation at 3 September 2005 increased by 9.5 million and the non-current deferred tax asset increased by the same amount.
Pension assets are valued at bid value under IFRS, whereas a mid market valuation is used under FRS 17.
The impact of this change is not material.
Returns on assets and interest on pension liabilities are recorded within finance income in interest under UK GAAP, but within the Groups operating profit under IFRS.
In the year ended 3 September 2005, the effect of this is to reduce cost of sales by 2.3 million, reduce administrative expenses by 0.5 million and reduce finance income by 2.8 million.
105 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006 34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued g In accordance with IFRS, provisions have been split between current and non-current on the face of the balance sheet.
As at 3 September 2005 6.8 million 2004: 4.8 million has been reclassified as a current provision.
h In accordance with IFRS, interest receivable has been shown separately on the face of the income statement.
Interest receivable of 1.6 million as at 3 September 2005 has been reclassified from interest paid and similar charges.
i In accordance with IFRS, costs associated with refinancing of 38.4 million have been reclassified from finance costs to interest paid within the cash flow statement.
Effects of measurement items j IFRS requires that deferred tax is recognised where assets are held at values that differ from their tax base cost.
The basis of this calculation varies depending on whether value is expected to be achieved from the asset through sale or through retention in the business.
On the date of transition, a deferred tax liability of 18.2 million was created under IFRS to reflect the capital gains tax that would become payable in respect of a portfolio of properties that the Group expected to sell.
This liability was subsequently released to the income statement in the year ended 3 September 2005 when the properties left the accounting corporate group without tax becoming payable.
k As part of the operating lease agreements for buildings, the Group receives a number of lease incentives in the form of rent-free periods and developer contributions.
Under IFRS, lease incentives are spread over the lease term.
Under UK GAAP, they were spread over the shorter of the lease term or the period to the first rent review, and the resulting liabilities of 4.6 million, relating to rent-free periods, and 39.6 million, relating to developers contributions, were shown within current trade and other payables.
On transition to IFRS at 29 August 2004, current trade and other payables were reduced by 3.5 million and 33.5 million for rent-free periods and developers contributions respectively and liabilities of 18.3 million and 124.6 million respectively were created in other non-current liabilities.
This resulted in a decrease in current trade and other payables of 31.8 million as at 3 September 2005 2004: 37.0 million, an increase in other non-current liabilities of 148.5 million as at 3 September 2005 2004: 142.9 million and an increase in cost of sales of 10.9 million in the year ended 3 September 2005.
The tax effect of these adjustments was an increase in deferred tax assets of 38.0 million as at 3 September 2005 2004: 38.3 million and an increase in the tax charge for the year ended 3 September 2005 of 0.4 million.
l A number of operating lease agreements contain fixed incremental rental charges.
In accordance with IAS 17 the total committed cost has been calculated and is charged on a straight-line basis.
Under UK GAAP the fixed increments have been charged to the income statement on a basis consistent with the amounts incurred each year.
The impact of adopting IAS 17 for the leases has been to increase other non-current liabilities by 10.3 million as at 3 September 2005 2004: 0.6 million, to increase non-current deferred tax asset by 3.1 million as at 3 September 2005 2004: 0.2 million and to increase cost of sales and reduce the tax charge by 9.7 million and 2.9 million respectively in the year ended 3 September 2005. m On a UK GAAP basis, applying UITF 17 Employee Share Schemes share-based awards are accounted for on an intrinsic basis.
Under IFRS 2 Share-based Payments a charge is required in the income statement to recognise the fair value of shares and options awarded to employees over the period to which the employees services relate.
In the year ended 3 September 2005, the effect of this adjustment was to increase cost of sales by 4.7 million, increase administration expenses by 0.9 million and reduce the Groups tax charge by 1.7 million.
The effect of this adjustment on the Groups balance sheet was to increase deferred tax assets by 5.9 million as at 3 September 2005 2004: 0.8 million, and to increase trade and other payables by 19.7 million as at 3 September 2005 2004: 2.8 million.
106 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued Other items n Costs relating to the Groups pension schemes were accounted for under SSAP 24 prior to the reverse acquisition.
The UK GAAP financial statements for the period ended 3 September 2005 applied FRS 17.
Applying FRS 17 to the period prior to the reverse acquisition resulted in an increase in cost of sales of 5.9 million, an increase in administration expenses of 1.3 million, and an increase in other finance income of 1.0 million for the year ended 3 September 2005.
The impact on the balance sheet for the year ended 28 August 2004 was to increase the defined benefit obligation by 47.4 million, to increase deffered tax assets by 14.2 million and to reduce trade and other receivables by 14.4 million.
The balance sheet at 3 September 2005 is unaffected.
o In the UK GAAP accounts for the year ended 3 September 2005 the DRET was not consolidated.
An adjustment relating to the consolidation of the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust resulted in an increase in cash and cash equivalents of 12.8 million for the year ended 3 September 2005 and a corresponding increase in retained earnings.
35 Principal subsidiary undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings of Debenhams plc at 2 September 2006 were as follows: Country of Country of Company operation registration Activity Baroness Group Holdings Limited Jersey Jersey Holding company Debenhams Retail plc UK England Department store retailing Debenhams Group Holdings Limited formerly Debenhams Limited UK England Holding company Debenhams Finance Holdings Limited UK England Holding company Baroness Retail Limited UK England Holding company Debenhams Retail Ireland Limited Ireland Ireland Department store retailing Debenhams Properties Limited UK England Property investment BF Properties No.
1 Limited UK England Property investment BF Properties No.
2 Limited UK England Property investment BF Properties No.
3 Limited UK England Property investment Debenhams Direct Limited UK England Internet retailing Other entities: Baroness Employee Limited Partnership Jersey Jersey ESOP Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 Jersey Jersey ESOP Denotes investments held by the Company.
All other investments are held by subsidiary undertakings.
All companies are wholly owned.
All subsidiary companies are consolidated.
36 Events after the balance sheet date On 12 September 2006 the Company acquired the business and assets of nine stores based in the Republic of Ireland from Roches Stores, an unlimited company incorporated and registered in Ireland.
The consideration for this acquisition was 129.0 million plus the value of the stock, with 115.0 million payable on completion, 15.0 million payable on the first anniversary and 19.0 million on the second anniversary of completion.
The assets acquired include fixtures and equipment at each of the stores, goodwill, licences and trademarks.
107 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006
