Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued.......................................................................... 21 Other financial assets and liabilities 2006 Non-current Current Current Non-current assets assets liabilities liabilities million million million million Derivative assets liabilities Designated in a cash flow hedge 24 22 14 4 Designated in a fair value hedge 9 3 50 Designated in a net investment hedge 17 Not designated in a hedge relationship 9 17 42 22 34 71 Non-derivative assets liabilities Other liquid resources 49 Finance lease liabilities 2 7 49 2 7 42 71 36 78 Derivative assets and liabilities were recognised at fair value on the adoption of IAS 39 on 1 July 2005.
As noted in the basis of preparation, comparative information has not been restated.
The group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities.
At 30 June 2005, current assets included other liquid resources of 30 million, and non-current liabilities included finance lease liabilities of 9 million.
22 Financial instruments and risk management Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity price movements that arise in the normal course of the groups business.
The groups treasury objectives, risk management strategies and polices are disclosed in the Operating and financial review see Risk management.
Exemption to restate comparative information for IFRS 7, IAS 32 and IAS 39 The comparative financial information in these financial statements does not comply with IFRS 7, IAS 32 and IAS 39 as the group has elected to apply the exemption permitted by IFRS 1.
As a result of these standards, a number of financial instruments have been recognised or revalued in the opening balance sheet at 1 July 2005 increasing reserves by 164 million before tax see note 26.
Financial instruments in the period ended 30 June 2005 remain recorded in accordance with the previous UK GAAP accounting policies under FRS 13. i Currency risk management The group publishes its consolidated financial statements in sterling and conducts business in many foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange rate movements which will affect the groups transaction costs, and the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The group hedges a substantial portion of its exposure to fluctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign operations by holding net borrowings in foreign currencies and by using foreign currency swaps and forwards and cross currency interest rate swaps.
During the year ended 30 June 2006, the groups policy where a liquid foreign exchange market exists was to hedge currency exposure on its net foreign operations before net borrowings at approximately the following percentages 90% US dollars, 90% euros and 50% for other significant currencies.
This policy leaves the remaining part of the groups net foreign operations before net borrowings subject to currency movements.
The highly effective portion of exchange differences arising on the retranslation of foreign currency borrowings including foreign currency swaps and forwards is recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense to match exchange differences on foreign equity investments.
Any ineffectiveness is taken to the income statement in accordance with IAS 39.
Hedge documentation is prepared for all net investment hedges at inception and effectiveness testing is carried out quarterly.
Transaction exposure hedging For currencies in which there is an active market, the group seeks to hedge between 80% and 100% of forecast transactional foreign exchange rate risk, for up to a maximum of 21 months forward, using forward foreign currency exchange contracts.
The gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in reserves to the extent it is highly effective and recycled into the income statement at the same time as the underlying hedged transaction affects the income statement.
At 30 June 2006, as a result of the net investment and transaction exposure cover outlined above, the group had outstanding gross foreign exchange contracts as disclosed in note 22 vi.
Further quantitative analysis of the sensitivity to movements in currency rates is reported in the Market risk sensitivity analysis in the Operating and financial review.
