This has been another year of progress and solid achievement for Diageo Diageo continues its course and our business continued to grow.
Our achievements in the year are significant.
I would underline the continued strong performance in North as a strong and sustainable America, the growth in Latin America and the considerable contribution of many of our African markets.
In a year of rising energy prices, the work business and one that is trusted of our supply operation to mitigate the heavy pressure on costs of goods also merits recognition.
and respected by stakeholders Responsibility for our business interests around the world The global debate on the responsible consumption of alcohol continues.
Diageo-backed programmes are wide-ranging and we have also continued our sponsorship of Team McLaren Mercedes Formula One and through this extended our innovative responsible drinking support for Johnnie Walker.
That commitment is also relevant to the emerging dialogue between our industry and the World Health Organisation WHO.
Diageo has played an important role in bringing together 15 of the leading beverage alcohol businesses in the Global Alcohol Producers Group, which participated in formal consultations with the WHO earlier this year.
Participation in this group is an opportunity to work with our industry colleagues to see the advantages of an active stance on alcohol and responsibility.
In corporate citizenship, our North American business assisted those caught in the wake of Hurricane Katrina and we have continued to develop our Water of Life programmes in Africa as well as our Skills for Life initiatives in a number of International locations.
The year also saw an important milestone in Diageos continued co-operation with the Thalidomide Trust.
We were able to reach a further agreement to contribute to the long-term care and welfare of Trust beneficiaries and to agree a way forward designed to ensure close co-operation into the future.
Diageos success will be judged by our ability to deliver sustained business performance.
But for todays global business, success is measured by more than sales or profits.
This report shows that although there is much work still to be done Diageo continues its course as a strong and sustainable business and one that is trusted and respected by stakeholders around the world.
Board of directors Laurence Danon joined our board in January this year.
I am delighted that Diageo will benefit from her wealth of luxury retail experience.
I know she will play a valued and important part in our deliberations.
Returning value to shareholders Our commitment to deliver sustained financial performance continues.
This is demonstrated by our efforts to return value to shareholders.
Our share buyback programme is one of the most significant in the United Kingdom and we have again increased our dividend.
This year, the board has recommended a 5% increase in the full year dividend to 31.1p.
I thank all of you for your support during the past year and look forward to Our commitment to deliver your continued support of Diageo.
Lord Blyth of Rowington, Chairman Lord Blyth of Rowington, Chairman | 1
