Notes to the company financial statements.......................................................................... 1 New accounting policies The accounting policies of the company are consistent with those applied last year, apart from where the company has adopted the following accounting standards in the year: FRS 20 Share-based payment The company operates a number of share-based incentive schemes awards of options and shares and has applied the requirements of FRS 20 for the first time in these financial statements.
FRS 20 requires that where the companys shares or options over the companys shares are granted to group employees, an increase should be recorded in the cost of investment in the subsidiary in which the employees are employed, with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
This increase is measured at the fair value of the share or share option at the date of grant, and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the award.
The company adopted the transitional arrangements so that FRS 20 was applied retrospectively to all options granted but not fully vested at 30 June 2004.
Any payments received from the companys subsidiaries in respect of these share-based payments result in an adjustment to reduce the cost of investment.
The adoption of FRS 20 increased shareholders funds by 24 million at 1 July 2004.
There was no impact on the companys profit and loss account for the year ended 30 June 2006.
FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date Formerly, under UK GAAP, the proposed dividends on ordinary shares, as recommended by the directors, were deducted from shareholders equity and shown as a liability in the balance sheet at the end of the period to which they related.
Under FRS 21, proposed dividends are not considered to be a liability until they are approved by the Diageo board for the interim dividend and by the shareholders at the annual general meeting for the final dividend.
Under FRS 21, the amount of the final dividend 30 June 2005 530 million: 1 July 2004 513 million has been removed from current liabilities with a consequent increase in shareholders funds.
FRS 22 Earnings per share FRS 22 prescribes the basis for calculating and presenting earnings per share in the financial statements.
This standard applies to listed companies that do not prepare consolidated financial statements and therefore does not impact on the companys financial statements.
FRS 23 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates The standard prescribes how to account for foreign currency transactions and foreign operations in financial statements.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 and has been adopted prospectively by the company from 1 July 2005.
Compliance with FRS 23 has not affected profit after taxation or shareholders funds.
FRS 25 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation and FRS 29 Financial instruments: disclosures FRS 25 is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
The company has adopted early FRS 29, which replaces the disclosure requirements of FRS 25.
As consolidated financial information has been disclosed under the equivalent IFRS standard IFRS 7, the parent company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of this standard.
FRS 26 Financial instruments: measurement FRS 26 applies to all listed companies for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 and prescribes new rules for accounting for financial instruments and hedge accounting.
The standard has been adopted by the company and applied prospectively from 1 July 2005.
For the year ended 30 June 2006, compliance with FRS 26 has increased profit after taxation by 12 million and, at 30 June 2006, increased debtors by 49 million and increased creditors by 37 million.
The company has not adopted amendments to FRS 26 in relation to financial guarantee contracts which will apply for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2006.
Where the company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
The company does not expect the amendments to have any impact on the financial statements for the period commencing 1 July 2006.
FRS 28 Corresponding amounts FRS 28 sets out the requirements for the disclosure of corresponding amounts for items disclosed in a companys primary financial statements and the notes to the financial statements.
2 Auditor fees The fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc for the statutory audit of the company for the year ended 30 June 2006 were 26,000 2005 25,300.
3 Directors emoluments Full information on directors emoluments, share and other interests, transactions and pension entitlements is included in the directors remuneration report in this Annual Report.
