Our business in 2006 WE STRIVE TO BE THE BEST.......................................... Todays consumers are seeking opportunities for affordable luxury.
A super premium martini made with Tanqueray No.
TEN allows them to 16bn add that luxury with confidence.
Over the past nine years, we have returned Paul Walsh, Chief executive nearly 16bn to our shareholders in the form of our share buyback programme and dividends.
1 Impact Databank named Smirnoff the most valuable brand this year.
It now leads the industry in volume and retail value.
80m Our marketing spend increased organically by 80m, focusing on the biggest opportunities for growth by brand and market........................................... TOP 3 BRANDS By volume 1Smirnoff 2 Johnnie Walker 3 Guinness................................................................................. UNDERSTANDING CONSUMER DEMAND TO DRIVE PERFORMANCE..................................................................................... Diageos enviable collection of premium brands offers customers and consumers choice for all occasions This annual review demonstrates the ability of our business to deliver The regional structure also allows us to look for new business opportunities consistent organic growth.
With net sales, after deducting excise duties, in markets around the world.
This year we announced the acquisition of up 6%, volume up 6% and operating profit up 7%, Diageo has demonstrated the Smirnov brand in Russia through a company in which Diageo holds that it is a solid business that can deliver strong performance year on year.
a 75% stake and a major Russian consortium, the Alfa Group, holds a 25% Our strength is in our brands, our people and our regions, coming together stake.
This company will be the exclusive distributor of Diageo spirits and in Diageo, the worlds leading premium drinks business.
the Smirnov vodka brand in Russia.
Diageos enviable collection of premium brands offers customers and Investing in our brands consumers choice for all occasions.
Smirnoff, the worlds number one We continue to believe that the key to growing our brands is investment.
international spirit brand, and Johnnie Walker were our two best Our strong advertising campaigns have delivered great things for our performers.
On the pages which follow, youll see many other brands business.
In addition, we reach out to consumers in more and varied that have importance in local markets such as Crown Royal, Sterling ways with our sports sponsorship programme.
Were delighted with our Wines, Cacique, Blossom Hill, Benmore and Red Stripe.
continued sponsorship of Team McLaren Mercedes Formula One racing, which gives Johnnie Walker great exposure around the world.
Weve We look constantly for new consumer opportunities, which help us find also continued to apply the principles of our sports sponsorship strategy new outlets and occasions for our brands.
Some of the exciting innovations through local initiatives such as NASCAR auto racing in the United States, weve launched in the past year include Baileys Flavours, Quinns and rugby in Great Britain, golf in Asia and cricket in Australia.
The Reserve Brands Group, which places our super premium brands in style bars around the world, has now been Were proud to see the recognition weve received for the different introduced in 40 cities.
Todays consumers are seeking opportunities for aspects of our performance.
Whether its one of our customers naming affordable luxury.
A super premium martini made with a Reserve Brand us as a preferred supplier or Management Today honouring us as Britains such as Tanqueray No.
TEN allows them to add that luxury with confidence.
most admired consumer products company, these are important indicators of success from other independent organisations.
And while we look at global opportunities, we also look for local market variations.
It is critical for our business to have a comprehensive strategy, With another year of strong performance, we plan to deliver similar but also to allow for the flexibility to create local market adaptations.
organic operating profit growth in the next fiscal year.
Youll see that in brands like Smirnoff Caipiroska and Buchanans Red Seal, where our understanding of the consumer has allowed us to adapt our On the following pages you will find highlights of our activities and offerings to create new products that are already being well received by performance over the past year divided by region.
A summary of our the local market.
financial and operational highlights begins on page 22.
Benefits of the regional structure This has been a strong year for Diageo.
We continue to measure ourselves Our regional structure has been operational for two years and the against the worlds greatest companies.
A critical part of that is our business is benefiting from it.
North America continued to deliver strong engagement with those who have invested in our business.
We recognise performance: Europe is focused on driving margin improvement in a lower that you have a choice to do so.
We thank you for that investment, for topline growth environment and International benefited from investment placing your trust in Diageo and for your continued support.
as we see growth opportunities in the region.
While each region is unique, we are constantly seeking to share knowledge about our business, around our business.
Paul Walsh, Chief executive Diageo Annual Review 2006 | Chief executives review | 5 Pure anticipation Whether youre waiting for a pint of the black stuff to settle or waiting to see if a last-minute conversion will make it over the posts 3pm, Twickenham Guinness has a long consumer association with rugby and is the dedicated sponsor of Englands domestic rugby union league, the Guinness Premiership.
Good things come to those who wait Diageos latest Guinness commercial, which spins evolution backwards demonstrating mankinds three billion year wait for the perfect pint, won top prize at one of the advertising industrys leading awards ceremonies in Cannes this year.
1 OUR MARKET SHARE IN THE UNITED STATES Creative advertising and on trade execution of Captain Morgans Search Party programme helped the brand enjoy another year of strong growth.
Diageo North America extended its strong performance through the last We strengthened relationships year.
Our business again outpaced growth in the wider spirits industry.
We strengthened our relationships and capabilities with our distributors, and capabilities with our earned supplier of choice accolades from retailers, and continued to support responsible drinking and corporate citizenship initiatives.
distributors and earned Successes in spirits, wine and beer supplier of choice accolades Our spirits business in the US grew robustly led by global priority brands and Crown Royal.
Brand performance highlights included the continuing resurgence from retailers of Smirnoff, the return to growth of Tanqueray and Baileys, and the strong performance of Johnnie Walker, especially the super deluxe variants such as Gold and Blue.
Additionally, Diageo launched 18 new products, among them Smirnoff Lime, Crown Royal XR, Jos Cuervo Black Medallion and the Jos Cuervo TOP 3 BRANDS flavours.
And in Canada, 10 of our brands delivered their best year ever.
By volume Our wine business successfully completed the integration of the Chalone 1Smirnoff brands into Chateau & Estate Wines while we also saw continued growth 2 Captain Morgan of our Sterling Vineyards and Beaulieu Vineyard brands.
The wine group 3Crown Royal contributed to innovation by successfully launching the Chalone Monterey brand from Edna Valley Vineyard.
Beaulieu Vineyard reached additional consumers by producing the Toast of the Century as part of its sponsorship of the Las Vegas Centennial Celebration in 2005.
The toast was one of the largest ever as consumers raised a glass to begin Las Vegas second century.
8 | Regional highlights | Diageo Annual Review 2006 LE REGION EXTENDS SOLID AGAIN OUTPERFORMS THE MARKET......................................................................................... 6% Ready to Tanqueray, a new advertising campaign, helped inject OPERATING PROFIT new vitality into the brand, improving performance and reviving the gin category with a fully integrated marketing programme featuring Tanquerays own Tony Sinclair.
Organic growth before exceptional items Dulseda Dulce fide Leche is a cream liqueur inspired by traditional Latin recipes and crafted in small batches.
It combines select Caribbean rums with fresh cream and Dulce fide Leche.
In our North American beer business, Guinness, Red Stripe and Smithwicks We recognise those who deliver this success.
For the third consecutive year, continued to grow as US consumers favoured premium beer.
Guinness was Diageo delivered a unique programme, The Golden Bar Awards, which honoured with an advertising award for the brands Brewmasters Brilliant celebrates outstanding performance by our strategic distributors.
It features two animated Guinness brewmasters whose brilliant honours distributors for both marketplace performance and the roles they discoveries include sunscreen lotion and the little black book.
The award play in their communities.
honours campaigns that achieve results, in this case by not only increasing sales for Guinness Draught in bottles, but also across variants.
Weve been recognised by some of our major retail customers in North America again with awards and are now category captains in many of the Comprehensive marketing and sales programmes leading chain restaurants.
In a vote by on trade chain retailers, we were Diageo executed several integrated marketing initiatives that broke new also recognised as large supplier of the year by Cheers!
ground including Crown Royals Your Name Here 400 campaign.
This programme offers consumers the chance for the first time in NASCAR history Finally, Diageo continued its Spirit of the Americas humanitarian aid programme.
to have the 2007 400-mile race at the Richmond International Speedway Through this, Diageo supplied much needed relief to the victims of Hurricane in Richmond, Virginia named for him or her.
Katrina by donating industrial-sized generators to towns and cities in Mississippi and Louisiana in the hours and days following the catastrophe.
Responsible drinking efforts remain a key component of our marketing efforts across all brands for Diageo, with around 20% of our broadcast advertising dedicated to this important issue.
In addition to great marketing, the success of our brands can be partly attributed to the dedicated sales force within the companys distributors.
Diageo worked closely with these independent organisations to build industry-leading sales capabilities through the Diageo Platform for Growth programme.
And we have been helping to educate distributors on how best to sell our wine collection with a first-of-its-kind online learning tool.
Diageo Annual Review 2006 | Regional highlights | 9 6pm, sundown on South Beach Its sundown and time to slow the pace with a stroll along the beach before dinner.
This is the perfect time to reflect on a busy day: sightseeing and shopping on the 5th Avenue of the South followed by a memorable lunch and afterwards a game of beach volleyball with friends.
Cocktail hour Plans for the night are taking shape.
Hail a cab then off to the hottest bar in town that serves the best Croc martinis youll ever taste.
Exceptionally fresh and elegantly smooth, this super premium vodka is distilled five times and made from fine French grapes.
Cuban flavours Present day Miami is influenced by a Cuban community who have set up home in Little Havana.
During most daylight hours, youre sure to find seniors playing their favourite game in Domino Park.
1 SCOTCH WHISKY IN EUROPE Out of tradition comes modernity.
The launch of Surger technology delivers a great draught Guinness experience to consumers at home.
A clever bit of kit available in Great Britain, France and Germany.
In Europe, the challenges of doing business faced by many consumer We are innovating across goods companies today are well documented.
In addition to these common difficulties, Diageo Europe also faces challenges as we do business in a highly many premium spirits regulated industry.
categories, including Scotch Focused investment and streamlined structure We continue to focus investment behind the strongest opportunities for and other whiskies, vodka sales growth.
We have also redoubled our efforts to streamline our business in Europe.
We continue to maximise the effectiveness of our marketing spend and rum, as well as with and to manage our overheads.
For example, we are now running a single pan-European Smirnoff ad campaign, where previously there were many.
Guinness and other beers Today, Diageo is a more efficient organisation and well placed to take.......................................... advantage of opportunities as they arise.
TOP 3 BRANDS Innovating to grow our business By volume Europe is a development lab for innovation and we see this as an opportunity for future growth.
With a multi-faceted innovation strategy, we are innovating 1Smirnoff across many premium spirits categories, including Scotch and other whiskies, 2 Guinness vodka and rum, as well as with Guinness and other beers.
We are doing so in 3J&B ways that reflect consumer trends toward premium products and broader choice in the mid-proof spirits and mid-strength beer categories.
12 | Regional highlights | Diageo Annual Review 2006 A MORE EFFICIENT OPERATION D CREATES OPPORTUNITY FOR GROWTH......................................................................................... 6% OPERATING PROFIT Quinns is a new type of alcohol drink made from 100% fruit to give it a natural fruit taste.
Launched in Great Britain, the non-carbonated alcohol drink is a refreshing alternative to wine as a pre-dinner drink.
Organic growth before exceptional items Smirnoff North is a new, distinctive vodka drink with a smooth and crisp taste.
It combines Smirnoff vodka with blue Nordic berries that give its natural berry flavour and iridescent blue colour.
This strategy is manifest in the innovations we are now driving across the Growing our brands region.
From the multi-market programmes like Guinness Surger and Baileys Our people and their passion for our business and brands are key to increasing Flavours, to new brands introduced locally like Smirnoff North in Greece, our performance in Europe.
As we have restructured the region we have freed Guinness Brewhouse Series in Ireland and Quinns in Great Britain, we are up resource which is now being invested in our brands to accelerate growth.
Investment is deliberately being put behind those brands, in particular markets, Attitudes to alcohol where there is the greatest potential.
From Johnnie Walker Black Label in Greece, We are committed to supporting responsible drinking initiatives and working Spain, Italy and Russia, to Smirnoff in Great Britain and Germany.
From Blossom with the industry to try to change consumer and other stakeholder attitudes Hill in Great Britain, to investment in innovation programmes in Spain, Great towards alcohol.
Britain and Ireland which will spawn new product variations for the entire region.
A focus on rum across the region, plus vodka and international spirits Across Europe, Diageo has set the standard in responsible drinking and we in Russia, our newest European market, will see us capitalise on two of the have much to be proud of in the year.
We introduced anti-binge drinking most vibrant market opportunities.
television advertising in Ireland, Great Britain and Spain, which has been well received and have plans to introduce ads in other markets in the future.
We were involved in the creation of the Drinkaware Trust in Great Britain, a vehicle for industry-led responsible drinking initiatives.
In taking the lead in this area, we also created opportunity for our business.
Apart from the importance of encouraging our consumers to enjoy our products safely and sensibly, our work is beginning to have a positive impact on how our company and brands are treated and perceived.
We are working to preserve an environment in which alcohol can continue to play an important role in celebration.
Changing attitudes to alcohol is an integral part of our business strategy for growth.
For that reason, we see uniting and mobilising our industry as a key means of changing consumer and stakeholder attitudes.
Diageo Annual Review 2006 | Regional highlights | 13 A night to remember Athens is packed with lively nightspots and all tastes are catered for.
The fun starts after midnight and keeps going until dawn.
1am bouzouki club, Glyfada Look around you and at each table there are two items synonymous with a bouzouki club: a pile of flowers to throw and a bottle of rich, smooth Johnnie Walker Black Label to share.
The place erupts in a frenzy as the star of the night takes the stage and the flowers fly in the air.
Seriously appreciated This year Johnnie Walker Black Label performed exceptionally in Greece with sales up significantly.
Growth was mainly driven by an effective advertising campaign and strong activation in both the on and off trade.
INTERNATIONAL ACCELERATED INVEST INNOVATION DRIVES......................................................................................... 2.2bn NET SALES IN INTERNATIONAL Net sales after excluding excise duties Red Stripe received three prestigious awards at the Jamaica Exporters Association 40th Anniversary awards, where the brand was named Champion Exporter for the second year in a row.
Diageo International achieved double-digit organic volume and net sales International ended the year growth.
While some brands and some markets still present challenges, investment in advertising and strong marketing played a part in the with double-digit organic years success.
volume growth and impressive The International region is made up of more than 100 different markets representing Africa, Asia, Australia, Greater China, Latin America & Caribbean, organic net sales growth plus Global Duty Free.
The size and diversity of the region make it challenging, but also rich in potential.
Developing opportunities in Africa In Kenya, we introduced Senator beer, which delivered over 500,000 cases.......................................... in the course of the year.
TOP 3 BRANDS In Ghana, while the base is small, trading profit has grown this year, bolstered by the launches of Benmore and Gold Arrow.
In Angola improved distributor By volume relationships and sales training have helped to drive strong growth in volume during 2006, including increases for Johnnie Walker Black Label and White Horse.
1 Johnnie Walker 2 Smirnoff We have faced challenges in Cameroon, however, where our trading was 3 Guinness impacted by aggressive promotional activity by a competitor.
This affected Guinness, where performance was down for the year.
We are involved in the enrichment of communities through the provision of water.
Our aim is to be able to provide clean water to one million African people within the next two years.
Already we have identified projects that should benefit at least 400,000 people, putting our ultimate goal well within sight.
16 | Regional highlights | Diageo Annual Review 2006 TMENT IN MARKETING AND POSITIVE PERFORMANCE IN REGION......................................................................................... 9% OPERATING PROFIT Asias premier golf tournament, the Johnnie Walker Classic, took place in Perth, Australia.
The Classic has become one of the most competitive, international and high profile tournaments in the world.
Organic growth before exceptional items NO.
1 DIAGEO WAS NAMED INTERNATIONAL SUPPLIER OF THE YEAR ACROSS ALL CATEGORIES BY SAMS CLUB, THE CASH AND CARRY DIVISION OF WAL-MART China launched the first-ever nationwide alcohol industry platform in the region the Alcohol & Society Forum, created by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce and Diageo.
Turning up the heat in Latin America increased our marketing spend in the year.
Were seeing the results of this in Our business in Mexico claimed the headlines this year, and for good reason.
the growth of brands such as Black & White, which is growing its way to the In addition to strong business performance, Mexico was also awarded a top.
Our aim is to increase our momentum in a market that is growing steadily.
number of accolades for its efforts.
We were particularly proud when the team Johnnie Walker and Smirnoff both had effective marketing initiatives in the was awarded Best Supplier of the Year by the Mexican Wholesalers Association.
year, which demonstrated that consumers there are continuing to upgrade Our business in Mexico was the top performer among companies employing to premium and branded products.
fewer than 500 people at the Great Place to Work Institute awards ceremony and sixth overall out of 220 companies.
We are also looking at opportunities in China by increasing marketing spend and improving our route to market.
Marketing is up significantly behind Diageo was chosen as supplier of the year to Sams Club International, the Johnnie Walker, in part due to our sponsorship of Team McLaren Mercedes cash-and-carry division of Wal-Mart and one of Diageos global priority Formula One racing at the Shanghai Grand Prix.
The award covers all retail categories, not just beverage alcohol, and ranks Diageo ahead of more than 40,000 companies that supply Sams Australia continues to be a strong market for ready to drink and also saw share Club International in Mexico, Brazil, Puerto Rico and China.
gains with spirits such as Johnnie Walker, Bundaberg and Smirnoff.
In Brazil, a programme with Carrefour Brasil reaped strong results.
By persuading As the trading environment for spirits in Korea has stabilised with improved them to relocate the spirits aisle to the middle of the store, sales dramatically economic conditions, our spirits made share gains there as well, most notably increased.
As a result of this success, Carrefour Brasil will introduce the new on Windsor.
A new 21-year-old variant of the brand is being well received.
configuration to a further 25 stores as a pilot, and then to the rest of the As consumers discover new, modern on trade outlets, Johnnie Walker is Carrefour chain in Brazil within the year.
developing its small base and we look forward to future opportunities for the brand there.
Local priority brands are also important to the region and Buchanans and Red Stripe have both broken through the one million case benchmark in sales.
Our recent introductions to the standard whisky segment in Thailand have performed well in the past year and now account for over 450,000 cases sold Building for future growth in Asia and China in the market, although the strong growth of these brands has resulted in an We continue to invest in those markets that we know present even greater adverse mix in the market.
For example, in India we are committed to maintaining our leadership position in imported premium drinks and more significantly Diageo Annual Review 2006 | Regional highlights | 17 2pm, San Angel Its a summer afternoon in Mexico City.
The atmosphere is festive and noisy as a group of old friends reminisce about past times.
Stories are shared over a long lunch of barbecued borrego and quesadillas.
Celebration is an integral part of Mexican culture.
True spirit The city of Tequila is 2,300 metres above sea level in the western Mexico state of Jalisco.
Tequila is made from the agave plant, which is a member of the lily family and when harvested looks like a giant pine cone.
Flying the flag Echoing the colours of the Mexican flag, Jos Cuervo tequila is savoured with sangrita, a combination of orange and tomato juice, or alternatively in a margarita made with lime and salt.
1 tequila brand worldwide and brings any occasion to life from a reunion in a bar to a night at the hottest dance club in town.
