The principal acquired brands are as follows: Remaining Carrying Currency of amortisation amount Product investment period million Johnnie Walker Whisky Sterling Indefinite life 625 Smirnoff Vodka US dollar Indefinite life 437 Crown Royal Whisky US dollar Indefinite life 791 Captain Morgan Rum US dollar Indefinite life 650 Windsor Premier Whisky Korean won Indefinite life 495 Diageo Annual Report 2006 | 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued.......................................................................... 11 Intangible assets continued Capitalised brands are regarded as having indefinite useful economic lives and have not been amortised.
These brands are protected in all of the major markets where they are sold by trademarks, which are renewable indefinitely.
There are not believed to be any legal, regulatory or contractual provisions that limit the useful life of these brands.
The nature of the premium drinks industry is that obsolescence is not a common issue, with indefinite brand lives being commonplace and Diageo has a number of brands that were originally created more than 100 years ago.
Accordingly the directors believe that it is appropriate that the brands are treated as having indefinite lives for accounting purposes.
An annual review is carried out by the directors to consider whether any brand has suffered an impairment in value.
Impairment reviews are carried out annually to ensure that intangible assets, including brands, are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
In particular, the group performs a discounted cash flow analysis to compare discounted estimated future operating cash flows to the net carrying value of each acquired brand.
The analysis is based on forecast cash flows, with terminal values being calculated using the long term growth rate the real gross domestic product GDP growth rate of the country plus its inflation rate of the principal countries in which the majority of the profits of each brand are generated.
The estimated cash flows are discounted at the groups weighted average cost of capital in the relevant country.
Any impairment write downs identified are charged to the income statement.
The test is dependent on management estimates and judgements, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future cash flows, and the discount rate applied to these cash flows.
b The group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill is impaired.
The goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and a discounted cash flow analysis is computed to compare discounted estimated future operating cash flows to the net carrying value of each business.
The analysis is based on forecast cash flows, with terminal values being calculated using the long term growth rate the real GDP growth rate of the country plus its inflation rate of the relevant country.
c Other intangible assets, principally comprising distribution rights, are amortised over the length of the distribution arrangements on a straight-line basis generally between 10 and 20 years.
