Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed and adopted for use in the European Union IFRS.
The group is complying with IFRS for the first time for the year ended 30 June 2006 and the accounting policies applicable to the group from 1 July 2005 are set out below.
Comparative information is presented for the year ended 30 June 2005 prepared under IFRS.
This involved preparation of an opening IFRS balance sheet as at 1 July 2004, which is the groups date of transition to IFRS reporting.
IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards permits certain optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS accounting policies and the following options have been adopted: Business combinations: Business combinations prior to the date of transition have not been restated onto an IFRS basis.
Cumulative translation differences:The cumulative translation difference arising on consolidation has been deemed to be zero at the date of transition.
Share-based payments: Full retrospective application has been adopted for all awards granted but not fully vested at the date of transition to maintain consistency across reporting periods.
Financial instruments:The group has adopted the provisions of IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement from 1 July 2005.
Financial instruments in the year ended 30 June 2005 remain recorded in accordance with previous UK GAAP accounting policies, and the adjustment to IAS 39 is reflected in the consolidated balance sheet at 1 July 2005.
The group has adopted early the amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB on 16 December 2004 and applied by the group from 1 July 2004.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS, and the impact of the adoption of IAS 39 on 1 July 2005, are set out in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial instruments held for trading, financial instruments classified as available for sale and biological assets.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The critical accounting policies, which the directors consider are of greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement, are set out with related disclosures in Critical accounting policies in the Operating and financial review.
Business combinations The consolidated financial statements include the results of the company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable share of the results of joint ventures and associates.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the income statement up to, or from, the date that control passes.
On the acquisition of a business, or of an interest in a joint venture or associate, fair values, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition, are attributed to the net assets including identifiable intangible assets acquired.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the group.
Sales Revenue from the sale of goods includes excise and import duties which the group pays as principal but excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as value added tax.
Sales are recognised depending upon individual customer terms at the time of despatch, delivery or some other specified point when the risk of loss transfers.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
Sales are stated net of price discounts, allowances for customer loyalty and certain promotional activities and similar items.
Advertising Advertising production costs are charged in the income statement when the advertisement is first shown to the public.
Research and development Research expenditure in respect of new drinks products and package design is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
Any subsequent development expenditure in the period leading up to product launch that meets the recognition criteria set out in the relevant standard is capitalised.
If capitalised, any intangible asset is amortised on a straight line basis over the period of the expected benefit.
Share-based payments employee benefits The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is initially measured at grant date based on the binomial or Monte Carlo models and is charged in the income statement over the vesting period.
Shares of Diageo plc held by the company for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of various employee share plans around the group are deducted from equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
Any surplus or deficit arising on the sale of the Diageo plc shares held by the group is included as an adjustment to reserves.
Pensions and other post employment benefits The groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
In addition the group has defined contribution plans, unfunded post employment medical benefit liabilities and other unfunded post employment liabilities.
For defined benefit plans, the amount charged in the income statement is the cost of accruing pension benefits promised to employees over the year, plus any fully vested benefit improvements 74 | Diageo Annual Report 2006.......................................................................... granted to members by the group during the year.
It also includes a credit equivalent to the groups expected return on the pension plans assets over the year, offset by a charge equal to the expected increase in the plans liabilities over the year.
The difference between the fair value of the plans assets and the present value of the plans liabilities is disclosed as an asset or liability on the consolidated balance sheet.
Any differences between the expected return on assets and that actually achieved, and any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in assumptions or experience within the plans, are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Contributions payable by the group in respect of defined contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those that in managements judgement need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence.
Such items are included within the income statement caption to which they relate, and are separately disclosed either in the notes to the consolidated financial statements or on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Foreign currencies The income statements and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, other than substantial transactions that are translated at the rate on the date of the transaction.
The adjustment to closing rates is taken to reserves.
Balance sheets are translated at closing rates.
Exchange differences arising on the re-translation at closing rates of the opening balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and associates are taken to reserves, as are exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings and financial instruments designated as net investment hedges, to the extent that they are effective.
Tax charges and credits arising on such items are also taken to reserves.
Other exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
The results, assets and liabilities of operations in hyper-inflationary economies are adjusted to reflect the changes in the purchasing power of the local market currency of the entity.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
If hedged forward, the impact of hedging is recognised, where permitted, under hedge accounting refer to accounting policy for derivative financial instruments.
Brands, goodwill and other intangible assets When the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to the groups share of the net assets acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 July 1998 was eliminated against reserves, and this goodwill has not been restated.
Goodwill arising subsequent to 1 July 1998 has been capitalised.
Acquired brands and other intangible assets are recognised when they are controlled through contractual or other legal rights, or are separable from the rest of the business, and the fair value can be reliably measured.
Goodwill and intangible assets that are regarded as having indefinite useful economic lives are not amortised.
Intangible assets that are regarded as having limited useful economic lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over those lives.
Assets with indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment annually and other assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
To ensure that goodwill and intangible assets are not carried at above their recoverable amounts, impairment reviews are carried out comparing the net carrying value with the recoverable amount, where the recoverable amount is the higher of value in use or fair value less cost to sell.
Amortisation and any impairment write downs are charged in the income statement.
Computer software is amortised on a straight-line basis over a period of up to five years.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings are stated at cost less depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Leaseholds are depreciated over the unexpired period of the lease.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis to estimated residual values over their expected useful lives, and these values and lives are reviewed each year.
Subject to these reviews, the estimated useful lives fall within the following ranges: industrial and other buildings 10 to 50 years: plant and machinery 5 to 25 years: fixtures and fittings 5 to 10 years: and casks and containers 15 to 20 years.
Reviews are carried out if there is some indication that impairment may have occurred, to ensure that property, plant and equipment are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
Leases Where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Other leases are treated as operating leases, with payments and receipts taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Agriculture Grape cultivation by the groups wine business is accounted for as an agricultural activity.
Accordingly the groups biological assets grape vines are carried at fair value which is computed on the basis of a discounted cash flow computation.
Agricultural produce harvested grapes is valued at market value on transfer into inventory.
Diageo Annual Report 2006 | 75 Accounting policies of the group continued.......................................................................... Associates and joint ventures An associate is an undertaking in which the group has a long-term equity interest and over which it has the power to exercise significant influence.
The groups interest in the net assets of associates is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet and its interest in their results is included in the income statement below the groups operating profit.
Joint ventures, where there is contractual joint control over the entity, are accounted for by including on a line-by-line basis the attributable share of the results, assets and liabilities.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses, an appropriate proportion of production and other overheads, but not borrowing costs.
Cost is calculated on an actual usage basis for maturing inventories and on a first in, first out basis for other inventories.
Financial assets Trade receivables Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal amount that is usually the original invoiced amount less provisions made for bad and doubtful receivables.
Estimated irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing of the receivable balances and historical experience.
Individual trade receivables are written off when management deems them not to be collectable.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and deposits which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less at acquisition.
Financial liabilities Borrowings Borrowings are initially measured at cost which is equal to fair value at inception, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The fair value adjustments for all loans designated as hedged items in a fair value hedge are shown separately as a net figure.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Trade payables Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Derivative financial instruments The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposures to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
The derivative instruments used by Diageo consist mainly of currency forwards and currency and interest rate swaps.
Year ended 30 June 2006 From 1 July 2005, derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value that is calculated using discounted cash flow techniques or option pricing models such as Black Scholes consistently for similar types of instruments.
Both techniques take into consideration assumptions based on market data.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are charged or credited in the income statement.
The purpose of hedge accounting is to mitigate the impact on the group of changes in exchange or interest rates, by matching the impact of the hedged item and the hedging instrument in the income statement.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedging relationship must meet several conditions with respect to documentation, probability of occurrence, hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement.
At the inception of the transaction, the group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge transactions.
This process includes linking all derivatives designated as hedges to specific assets and liabilities or to specific firm commitments or forecasted transactions.
The group also documents its assessment, both at the hedge inception and on a quarterly basis, as to whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions have been, and are likely to continue to be, highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of hedged items.
Diageo designates derivatives which qualify as hedges for accounting purposes as either: a a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge : b a hedge of a forecast transaction or the cash flow risk from a change in interest rates cash flow hedge : or c a hedge of a net investment in foreign operations.
The method of recognising the resulting gains or losses from movements in fair values is dependent on whether the derivative contract is designated to hedge a specific risk and qualifies for hedge accounting.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the currency and or interest rate risk to which the fair value of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
From 1 July 2005, changes in the fair value of derivatives that are fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement, along with any changes in the relevant fair value of the underlying hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
If such a hedge relationship is fide-designated, fair value movements on the derivative continue to be taken to the income statement while any fair value adjustments made to the underlying hedged item to that date are amortised through the income statement over its remaining life.
Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge the currency risk of highly probable future foreign currency cash flows, as well as the cash flow risk from changes in interest rates.
From 1 July 2005, the effective part of the changes in fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense, while any ineffective part is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the forecasted transaction or related interest cash flow affects the income statement.
Net investment hedges take the form of either foreign currency borrowings or derivatives.
All foreign exchange gains or losses arising on translation of net investments are recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense and included in cumulative translation differences.
Liabilities used as hedging instruments in a net investment hedge are revalued at closing exchange rates.
The resulting gains or losses are taken to the statement of recognised income and expense to the extent that they are highly effective, with any ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement.
Foreign exchange contracts hedging net investments in overseas businesses are revalued at fair value.
Highly effective fair value movements are taken to the statement of recognised income and expense, with any ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement.
Year ended 30 June 2005 Financial instruments in the year ended 30 June 2005 remain recorded in accordance with the previous UK GAAP accounting policies as follows.
Instruments accounted for as hedges were structured so as to reduce the market risk associated with the underlying transaction being hedged and were designated as a hedge at the inception of the contract.
If the underlying transaction to a hedge ceased to exist, the hedge was terminated and the profit or loss was recognised immediately.
If the hedge transaction was terminated, the profit or loss was held in the balance sheet and amortised over the life of the original underlying transaction.
Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments were recognised on an accruals basis over the life of the instrument.
Foreign exchange contracts hedging net investments in overseas businesses were revalued at closing rates and exchange differences arising were taken to reserves.
Gains and losses on contracts hedging forecast transactional cash flows, and on option instruments hedging the sterling value of foreign currency denominated income, were recognised in the hedged periods.
Cash flows associated with derivative financial instruments were classified in the cash flow statement in a manner consistent with those of the transactions being hedged.
Finance costs associated with debt issuances were charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the issue.
The cumulative adjustment from UK GAAP to IFRS has been reflected in the consolidated balance sheet at 1 July 2005.
Deferred taxation Full provision for deferred tax is made for temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and their tax bases.
The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected recoverable amount and is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries where the group is able to control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future.
Discontinued operations Disposal groups are classified as discontinued operations where they represent a major line of business or geographical area of operations.
The income statement for the comparative period is re-presented to disclose the discontinued operations separate from the continuing operations.
