Notes to the consolidated financial statements.......................................................................... 1 New accounting policies This note sets out accounting policy developments subsequent to the adoption of IFRS by the group.
The transition to IFRS reporting is described in Accounting policies of the group Basis of preparation, with detailed disclosures in note 34.
In August 2005, the IASB issued IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures, which contains new regulations concerning the disclosure of financial instruments.
IFRS 7 replaces the disclosure regulations of IAS 32 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments recognition and measurement and must be applied to reporting periods that commence on or after 1 January 2007.
Diageo has adopted IFRS 7 early in its 2006 financial statements and has applied the exemptions under IFRS 1, IFRS 7 and IAS 32 not to restate comparative information in respect of IFRS 7, IAS 32 and IAS 39.
As a consequence, financial instruments included in the 2005 comparative information are still in accordance with UK GAAP, whereas they are accounted for in accordance with IFRS in the 2006 results.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS, this has been treated as a change in accounting policy.
The accounting policies for financial instruments under IFRS and, for the year ended 30 June 2005, under UK GAAP are detailed in Accounting policies of the group.
The adjustments made to net assets as a result of adopting IAS 39 on 1 July 2005 are detailed in note 34 b.
If the group had not taken this exemption, a number of financial instruments would have been recognised or revalued in the opening balance sheet at 1 July 2004 and accounted for under IAS 39 during the year ended 30 June 2005.
The following standards or interpretations, issued by the IASB or the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, have not been adopted by the group: Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements: capital disclosures effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, with earlier application encouraged.
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
IFRIC 5 Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market: waste electrical and electronic equipment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 December 2005.
IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 2 Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2006.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006, with early application encouraged.
This interpretation has not yet been adopted for use in the EU.
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006, with early application encouraged.
IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
The group will apply the interpretation of the IFRIC in respect of future interim reporting periods.
The group does not currently believe the adoption of these standards or interpretations will have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the group.
2 Segmental information Continuing operations Diageo is an international manufacturer and distributor of premium drinks.
The group produces, markets and distributes a wide range of premium brands, including Smirnoff vodka, Johnnie Walker Scotch whiskies, Guinness stout, Baileys Original Irish & Cream liqueur, Captain Morgan rum, J B Scotch whisky and Tanqueray gin.
In addition, Diageo also owns the distribution rights for the Jos Cuervo tequila brands in the United States and other countries.
Diageo also owns a number of investments in unconsolidated associates, the principal investment being a 34% interest in Mot Hennessy, a French partnership owned by LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA.
Mot Hennessy is based in France and is a leading producer and exporter of champagne and cognac.
Continuing operations comprise the following segments: Diageo North America United States and Canada, Diageo Europe all European countries and territories including Russia, Diageo International Africa, Asia Pacific and Latin America, Mot Hennessy and Corporate and other.
Discontinued operations Included within discontinued operations are transactions relating to the groups quick service restaurants business Burger King which was sold on 13 December 2002.
In connection with the transaction, Diageo guaranteed up to $850 million 459 million of external borrowings of Burger King.
On 13 July 2005 Burger King refinanced its external borrowings on a stand-alone basis, releasing Diageo from its obligations under guarantees relating to that debt, and repaid in full the subordinated debt and associated interest owed to Diageo.
