The directors have pleasure in presenting to shareholders their summary Summary directors remuneration report financial statement for the year ended 30 June 2006.
A summary financial Details of the remuneration policy and of the remuneration of the directors are statement does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an given in the directors remuneration report in the annual report, and a summary understanding of the results and state of affairs of the company or group of this report is set out on pages 30 to 32. as is provided by the annual report.
The financial statements, an operating and financial review, directors report, directors remuneration report and report Statement of the independent auditor to the members of Diageo plc of the auditor on the financial statements and auditable part of the directors remuneration report which is unqualified and did not include any statements We have examined the summary financial statement set out on pages 24 to 32. in relation to sections 237 s2 and s3 of the Companies Act 1985 are included in a separate document entitled Annual Report 2006, which is This statement is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in available to shareholders free of charge.
accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in such a statement and for no other purpose.
Summary directors report To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for Business activities and development our work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
Overviews by the chairman and the chief executive of the performance during the year and the future development of the groups business are included at Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the front of this document.
The directors are responsible for preparing the summary financial statement in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report Dividends to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement Diageo paid an interim dividend of 11.95 pence per share on 6 April 2006. within the annual review with the full annual financial statements, directors The directors recommend a final dividend of 19.15 pence per share.
Subject report, and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the to approval by members, the final dividend will be paid on 23 October 2006 relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the to shareholders on the register on 15 September 2006.
Payment to US ADR regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained holders will be made on 27 October 2006.
A dividend re-investment plan is in the annual review and the summary financial statement and consider the available in respect of this dividend and the plan notice date is 2 October 2006. implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Directors The directors, their responsibilities and memberships of the principal Basis of opinion committees are set out on pages 20 and 21.
Laurence Danon was appointed a We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The non-executive director on 1 January 2006 and, in accordance with the articles, auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the she retires and, being eligible, offers herself for election at the AGM.
All the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the non-executive directors are considered independent, except the chairman groups full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit Lord Blyth, due to the closer relationship he has with the company by virtue opinion on those financial statements.
of his position as chairman.
Opinion Annual General Meeting In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full The AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, annual financial statements, directors report and the directors remuneration Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 2.30pm on Tuesday, report of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2006 and complies with the 17 October 2006. applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Summary corporate governance report The company has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the KPMG Audit Plc 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance and has done so throughout Chartered Accountants the year regarding the Code provisions whose requirements are of a continuing Registered Auditor nature.
The company values its dialogue with both institutional and private London investors.
For the benefit of private investors, Diageo produces this short-form 30 August 2006 annual review which contains the information believed to be of most interest to them.
The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control for the relevant period.
A description of the significant ways in which UK corporate governance practices differ from those required of US companies under NYSE listing standards can be found in the investors section of our website, www.
24 | Summary financial statement | Diageo Annual Review 2006
