336 DIDATA financials 12 5 06 1:24 PM Page 100 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the eighth Annual General Meeting of Dimension Data Holdings plc will be held at Cazenove & Co, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA at 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time, on 31 January 2007 to transact the following business: ORDINARY BUSINESS To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following nine resolutions, each of which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution: 1.
To receive and adopt the annual financial statements comprising the consolidated financial statements of the Dimension Data Group and the financial statements of Dimension Data Holdings plc incorporated therein, and the reports of the Directors and the auditors for the year ended 30 September 2006.
To declare a final dividend of one US cent per share, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, payable on 16 March 2007 to the holders of ordinary shares registered at the close of business on 16 February 2007.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2006.
To re-elect as an executive director Brett William Dawson who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association.
To re-elect as an executive director Patrick Keith Quarmby who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association.
To re-elect as a non-executive director Josua Dillie Malherbe who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association.
To elect Peter John Liddiard as a non-executive director.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which financial statements are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors.
SPECIAL BUSINESS To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution: 10.
That the authority conferred on the Directors pursuant to Article 10.2 of the Companys Articles of Association to allot relevant securities be renewed until the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008 or 30 April 2008, whichever is the earlier and for such period without taking into account for this purpose any allotment of relevant securities pursuant to an offer or agreement made prior to such period the Directors shall be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of $1,540,130 or 154,013,000 ordinary shares.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as a special resolution: 11.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 10 above, the authority and power conferred on the Directors pursuant to Article 10.3 of the Companys Articles of Association to allot equity securities wholly for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to such allotment, be renewed until the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008 or 30 April 2008, whichever is the earlier, and for such period without taking into account for this purpose any allotment of relevant securities pursuant to an offer or agreement made prior to such period the Directors shall be empowered to allot equity securities wholly for cash pursuant to and within the terms of the authority in Article 10.2 of the Companys Articles of Association: In connection with a rights issue as defined in Article 10.5 of the Companys Articles of Association : and Otherwise than in connection with a Rights Issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of $770,065 or 77,006,500 ordinary shares as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to any such allotment.
By order of the Board ML Taylor Secretary 14 November 2006 PAGE 100 336 DIDATA financials 12 5 06 1:24 PM Page 101 NOTES 1.
Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for your use if desired.
Completion and return of a form of proxy does not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting in person.
To be valid, the enclosed form of proxy, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, must be lodged with Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH in the UK for members registered on the Companys principal register of members or Computershare Investor Services 2004 Proprietary Limited, 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001 or PO Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107 for members registered on the Companys South African register of members not later than 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 29 January 2007.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders on the register of members as at 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 29 January 2007 or, if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that relevant time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 29 January 2007 or, if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, on the register of members less than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Mobile phones may not be used in the meeting hall, and cameras, tape or video recorders are not allowed in the meeting hall.
Members may view but not participate in the Annual General Meeting from South Africa via a video link which will be available at The Wanderers, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston, Sandton, South Africa from 14h45 UK time, 16h45 SA time on 29 January 2007.
EXPLANATORY NOTES The purpose of each of the resolutions proposed at the Annual General Meeting is as follows: Resolution 1 To receive and adopt the Annual Financial Statements for the financial year which ended on 30 September 2006.
The Chairman will take questions from shareholders after proposing resolution 1.
Resolution 2 - Authority to pay dividend.
The Directors recommend the payment of a dividend of one US cent per share to be paid on 16 March 2007 to shareholders registered on the share register at the close of business on 16 February 2007.
Resolution 3 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2006.
In line with the Directors Remuneration Regulations 2002 and Section 241A of the Companies Act 1985, the Company is required to put a resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year to shareholders in a general meeting.
The report for the year ended 30 September 2006 is set out on pages 37 to 42 of the Annual Report.
Resolutions 4 to 6 Reappointment of Directors These resolutions will be proposed reappointing Brett Dawson, Patrick Quarmby and Dillie Malherbe who retire by rotation in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of each of the above directors and the rest of the Board are set out on pages 22 and 23 of the Annual Report, and other relevant information is contained in the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Report and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Resolutions 7 Appointment of Director A separate resolution will be proposed appointing Peter John Liddiard as a non-executive director.
Biographical details for Mr Liddiard are set out on page 23 of the Annual Report.
Resolutions 8 and 9 Auditors Resolution 8 will, if passed, reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company and resolution 9 will authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Company law requires that, at each general meeting at which accounts are laid, the Company should appoint auditors who will remain in office until the next general meeting at which accounts are laid.
PAGE 101 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 336 DIDATA financials 12 5 06 1:24 PM Page 102 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued Resolution 10 Authority to allot shares This gives Directors the general authority to allot up to 154,013,000 ordinary shares or other relevant securities being an amount approximately equal to one tenth of the issued share capital of the Company as at 30 September 2006.
This authority, if given, will expire at the next Annual General Meeting or 30 April 2008, whichever is earlier.
This resolution will be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
Resolution 11 Authority to allot the shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis Shares allotted for cash must normally be first offered to shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
However, resolution 11 renews an existing authority given to the Directors to allot shares or other equity securities for cash to persons other than existing shareholders up to a maximum of the authority granted under resolution 10 where the allotment is made in connection with a rights issue and up to a maximum of 5% of the Companys issued share capital as at 30 September 2006 where the allotment is made otherwise than in connection with a rights issue.
The authority, which will terminate on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or 30 April 2008, whichever is earlier, gives the Directors flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities which may arise and the 5% limit ensures that existing shareholder interests are protected.
This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution.
RECOMMENDATION Your Directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
They recommend that you vote in favour of the proposed resolutions.
The Directors intend to vote their own shareholdings in the Company in favour of the proposed resolutions.
ATTENDANCE AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting is being held in London.
Shareholders unable to attend the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a shareholder.
Proxy voting forms and STRATE voting instruction forms are enclosed with this Notice.
Details of proxy votes received will be displayed at the meeting, and will be available to shareholders following the meeting.
Should the results of a vote by show of hands at the meeting produce a result that would be materially different to that according to the proxy votes held, a poll will be called.
A video-conference facility to view the meeting in London from South Africa will be set up at The Wanderers, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston, Sandton, South Africa.
Shareholders attending at the viewing facility will be able to view but will not be able to participate in the meeting.
Immediately following the meeting the Directors present in London will be available via the video-conference facility to answer questions from shareholders attending the South African video-conference.
ACTION TO BE TAKEN You will find enclosed with this document a form of proxy for use at the Annual General Meeting.
Members who are registered on the principal register of members in the UK and certificated and own name dematerialised shareholders who are registered on the South African register are requested, whether or not they intend to be present at the Annual General Meeting, to complete the form of proxy in accordance with the instructions printed on it and return it to Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH in the UK for members registered on the Companys principal register of members in the UK or Computershare Investor Services 2004 Proprietary Limited, 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001 or PO Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107 for members registered on the Companys South African register of members, as soon as possible, but in any event so as to be received not later than 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 29 January 2007.
The return of the completed form will not prevent you from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person, should you so wish.
DEMATERIALISED SHARES IN STRATE ON THE SOUTH AFRICAN REGISTER Members who have dematerialised their Dimension Data shares in STRATE may use the attached voting instruction form for the purpose of advising their CSDP or broker of their voting instructions rather than the proxy form attached.
Members should contact their CSDP or broker with regard to the cut-off time for lodging of voting instruction forms.
If, however, such members wish to attend the Annual General Meeting in person, then they will need to request their CSDP or broker to provide them with the necessary authority in terms of the custody agreement entered into between the dematerialised shareholder and the CSDP or broker.
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION Copies of the executive directors service contracts, the terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors, and the Register of Directors Interests will be available at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday excluding Saturdays and public holidays and also at the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
PAGE 102 336 DIDATA financials 12 5 06 1:24 PM Page 103 FORM OF PROXY DIMENSION DATA HOLDINGS PLC For use by shareholders registered on the principal register in the UK and certificated and own name dematerialised shareholders registered on the South African register at the Eighth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 31 January 2007 at 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time at Cazenove & Co, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA.
If you wish to vote at the Annual General Meeting and are unable to attend in person you may appoint a proxy to act on your behalf by completing this form.
Please use block capitals I We of being a member s of Dimension Data Holdings plc, hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting Note 1 as my our proxy to attend and vote for me us on my our behalf at the eighth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 31 January 2007 and at any adjournment thereof.
I We wish my our proxy to vote on the resolutions as indicated by an X in the appropriate spaces below.
Subject to any voting instructions so given the proxy may vote or withhold his vote as he thinks fit.
Resolution For Against Vote withheld 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report, Auditors Report and audited financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2006.
To approve the declaration and payment of a dividend of one US cent per share.
To re-elect as a non-executive director Josua Malherbe who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association.
To elect as a non-executive director Peter John Liddiard.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting.
To renew the Directors authority and power to allot securities in accordance with Article 10.2 of the Articles of Association of the Company until the period ending on the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008 or 30 April 2008, whichever is the earlier.
To renew the Directors authority and power to allot securities in accordance with Article 10.3 of the Articles of Association of the Company until the period ending on the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008 or 30 April 2008, whichever is the earlier.
Signed Dated See notes overleaf 336 DIDATA financials 12 5 06 1:24 PM Page 104 NOTES 1.
If you prefer to appoint some other person or persons as proxy, please delete the words the Chairman of the meeting and insert the name preferred in the space provided and initial the amendment.
If you do not enter the name of your choice in the space and you delete the words the Chairman of the meeting the return of the form duly signed will authorise the chairman of the meeting to act as your proxy.
In the case of joint holders the signature of any one of them will suffice but the names of all joint holders should be shown on this card.
The vote of the first-named holder on the Register of Members will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of all the other joint holders.
In the case of a corporation this proxy should be either executed under its common seal or otherwise in accordance with Section 130 of the Companies Act 1989 or signed by its attorney or by a duly authorised officer on its behalf.
Any alterations made to the form of proxy should be initialled.
To be effective this proxy must reach the registrar of the Company together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority at the relevant address shown on the Notice not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting or any adjourned meeting at which the proxy is to vote.
Completion and return of this proxy will not preclude an ordinary shareholder from attending and voting in person.
If you do not indicate how you wish your proxy to use your vote on any particular matter or motion put to the meeting the proxy will exercise discretion both as to how to vote and whether or not to abstain from voting.
The column entitled vote withheld has been inserted into this form to enable shareholders to abstain from voting, however, such abstentions are not a vote in law and shall not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against any resolution.
The Company, pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders on the register of members as at 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 29 January 2007 or, if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at the relevant time.
336 DIDATA financials 12 5 06 1:24 PM Page 105 VOTING INSTRUCTION FORM DIMENSION DATA HOLDINGS PLC ONLY FOR USE BY MEMBERS WHO HAVE DEMATERIALISED THEIR DIMENSION DATA SHARES THROUGH STRATE For use in respect of the Eighth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 31 January 2007 at 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time at Cazenove & Co, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA.
Members who have dematerialised their Dimension Data shares may use this form to advise their CSDP or broker of their voting instructions on the proposed resolutions in the spaces provided below.
However, should such members wish to attend the meeting in person, then they will need to request their CSDP or broker to provide them with the necessary authority in terms of the custody agreement entered into between the dematerialised shareholder and the CSDP or broker.
I We being a member s of the Company who has have dematerialised my our shares in Dimension Data do hereby indicate in the spaces provided below to my our CSDP broker my our voting instructions on the resolutions to be proposed at the eighth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 15h00 UK time, 17h00 SA time on 31 January 2007 and at any adjournment thereof.
Signed Dated See notes overleaf 336 DIDATA financials 12 5 06 1:24 PM Page 106 NOTES 1.
Please indicate in the appropriate spaces the number of votes to be cast.
Each share carries the right to one vote.
In the case of a corporation this voting instruction form should be either executed under its common seal or otherwise in accordance with Section 130 of the UK Companies Act 1989 or signed by its attorney or by a duly authorised officer on its behalf.
Any alterations made to the voting instruction form should be initialled.
Completed voting instruction forms should be forwarded to the CSDP or broker through whom Dimension Data shares have been dematerialised.
THIS VOTING INSTRUCTION FORM IS ONLY FOR USE BY MEMBERS WITH DEMATERIALISED SHAREHOLDINGS VIA STRATE.
CERTIFICATED AND OWN NAME DEMATERIALISED SHAREHOLDERS REGISTERED ON THE SOUTH AFRICAN REGISTER AND SHAREHOLDERS WHO ARE REGISTERED ON THE PRINCIPAL REGISTER IN THE UK SHOULD USE THE PROXY FORM ATTACHED.
