The 2004 05 financial year has been presented in accordance with IFRS as well as UK GAAP as previously reported in order to highlight the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS.
2 Underlying figures exclude the effects of discontinued operations and operations to be discontinued, acquired intangible amortisation, restructuring costs and other one off charges, profits on sale of investments and subsidiaries and net fair value remeasurement gains on financial instruments.
3 Profit loss on sale of investments includes profits on sales of subsidiaries and business assets.
4 Adjusted diluted earnings per share is calculated using underlying earnings.
5 Net cash generated from operations includes dividend payments to minority shareholders.
6 Available net funds borrowings comprise cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and borrowings and exclude funds held under trust in respect of customer support agreement liabilities.
7 The presentation of both the income statement and the balance sheet differs from UK GAAP as discussed in note 33 i.
Comparative figures for 2001 02, 2002 03 and 2003 04 have not been restated for such reclassifications which include intangible assets, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and provisions.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 125 Shareholder Information Registered office Maylands Avenue, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire HP2 7TG.
com Joint brokers Citigroup Global Markets, JPMorgan Cazenove Registrars and transfer office Capita IRG plc, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
com Shareholder enquiries and share dealing services The Annual Report and Accounts and other information about the Group are available on the corporate website shown above.
Shareholders can access shareholding details over the internet.
The web address for our Registrars site is shown above.
As well as checking name, address and shareholding details in the Shareholder Help section, you can download change of address, dividend mandate and stock transfer forms.
This is a secure site and the system will validate enquiries by requesting your Investor Code.
This is a numerical account number shown on your share certificate and dividend tax counterfoil.
Shareholders are able to complete the proxy voting form in relation to the annual general meeting online through the Registrars website.
You will need to input your Investor Code, surname and postal code.
Online and telephone share dealing services are available through our Registrars, providing easy access and simple to use services.
There is no need to pre-register and the facilities allow you to trade in real time and at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
In order to deal via these facilities you will need your Investor Code see above as well as stating your surname, full postcode and date of birth.
Details of the online dealing service are available on www.
com and the telephone dealing service is on 0870 458 4577.
Cazenove operates a postal share dealing service for private investors who wish to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Details are available from Cazenove.
Tel: 020 7155 5328. Dividend mandate Shareholders who wish dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account should complete a dividend mandate form which can be obtained by contacting the Registrars or downloading it from their website see above.
This method of payment reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures that your account is credited on the dividend payment date.
Completed mandate forms should be received by the Registrars by 25 August 2006.
Consolidated tax voucher For shareholders who receive dividends directly into their bank or building society account, we have introduced consolidated tax vouchers in respect of the current and subsequent tax years.
This means that shareholders will NOT receive an individual tax voucher for the dividends payable in September 2006 and March 2007.
Instead shareholders will receive a tax voucher in March 2007 containing details of all dividends paid and the related tax credits in the tax year ending 5 April 2007.
126 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Shareholder Information CREST The Companys shares are traded on CREST.
CREST is a voluntary system which enables shareholders to hold and transfer their shareholdings electronically rather than by paper.
Shareholders holding shares in this way can opt to receive their dividends through the CREST system.
Capital gains tax For the purpose of computing capital gains tax, the market value of an ordinary share in the Company on 31 March 1982 was 1.35 pence adjusted for rights and capitalisation issues and the corporate restructuring effected on 7 March 2000.
Unsolicited mail The Company is obliged to make its share register available to third parties on payment of a prescribed fee.
This may result in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the receipt of unsolicited mail you should write to: The Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 22 London W1E 7ER or register on their website at www.
uk ShareGift The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme are available on the ShareGift internet site, www.
Financial calendar Final dividend record date 25 August 2006 Annual general meeting 6 September 2006 Payment of final dividend 29 September 2006 2006 07 interim results announcement 17 January 2007 Payment of 2006 07 interim dividend March 2007 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 127 Alternative format If you would like the Annual Report and Accounts or any other shareholder documentation in an alternative format, please send a request to diversity@dsgiplc.
128 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Designed and produced by CGI London Ltd, 44 0 20 7467 9300 www.
com Printed by St. Ives Westerham Press, environmentally accredited to ISO14001 The papers used in this report are manufactured using Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulp sourced from sustainable managed forests.
The pulp and paper mills hold the ISO14001 Environmental Accreditation DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 DSG international plc Tel 0870 850 3333 Maylands Avenue www.
