Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies 1.1 Basis of preparation DSG international plc has historically prepared its financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices UK GAAP.
A European Union EU Regulation issued in 2002, requires the Group to report its 2005 06 results in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Commission EC.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to those companies reporting under IFRS.
Since the Company is not affected by the provisions regarding portfolio hedging that are not required by the EU endorsed version of IAS 39: Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the consolidated financial statements comply with both IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The transition date to IFRS for the Group was 2 May 2004 the Transition Date, being the start of the period of comparative information.
IFRS 1 exemptions and elections IFRS 1, First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, permits those companies adopting IFRS for the first time to apply some exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS and certain elections in the transition period.
The Group has taken the following exemptions and elections: share-based payments: IFRS 2 Share-based payment has been applied to all equity settled transactions, such as share options, granted but not fully vested as at the Transition Date.
Although IFRS 2 requires that only share-based payments granted since 7 November 2002 be included, the Group considers that retrospective application provides a better indication of how past and future results are affected by IFRS 2, particularly when compared with the level of grants year on year.
Fair values for pre 7 November 2002 share-based payments were set out in an announcement dated 11 May 2005 which is available on the Groups corporate website: employee benefits: Under IAS 19 Employee Benefits all cumulative pension actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in reserves at the Transition Date.
The amended version of IAS 19 issued in December 2004 allows companies to recognise actuarial gains and losses immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense or alternatively to be held in the balance sheet and released to the income statement over a period of time.
Commencing on the Transition Date, the Group has elected to recognise actuarial gains and losses in full in the period in which they occur in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense: business combinations: The Group elected to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations prospectively from the Transition Date.
The effect of this is that goodwill arising from business combinations prior to the Transition Date remains at the net book value as stated under UK GAAP as at the Transition Date: financial instruments: The Group has elected to defer the implementation of IAS 32 Financial instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39: Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IAS 32 and IAS 39 have been adopted from 1 May 2005.
Commencing on this date, the Group has applied hedge accounting where the requirements of IAS 39 are met.
Accordingly, the comparative period to the 2005 06 Annual Report being the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2005 reflects accounting under the 2004 05 UK GAAP basis.
The Group has elected to early adopt the IAS 39 Amendment Cash Flow Hedge Accounting for Forecast Intragroup Transactions with effect from 1 May 2005 which stipulates further circumstances where hedge accounting may be applied: and cumulative translation differences: The cumulative translation differences for all foreign subsidiaries are deemed to be zero at the Transition Date.
Accordingly, upon disposal of a foreign subsidiary, any gain or loss arising will include only those foreign exchange gains or losses attributable to periods after the Transition Date.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 63 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued The directors believe that the underlying profit and adjusted earnings per share measures provide additional useful information for shareholders on underlying performance of the business, and are consistent with how business performance is measured internally.
It is not a recognised profit measure under IFRS and may not be directly comparable with adjusted profit measures used by other companies.
The principal accounting policies are set out below: 1.2 Accounting convention and basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to control the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired are included from the date on which power to control passes.
The net assets of subsidiaries acquired are recorded at their fair values.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of are included up to the effective date of disposal.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting from the date on which the power to exercise significant influence passes.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
1.3 Revenue Revenue comprises sales of goods and services excluding sales taxes.
Revenue from sales of goods is recognised at the point of sale or, where later, upon delivery to the customer.
Revenue earned from customer support agreements is recognised as such over the life of the agreement by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date.
1.4 Non-operating income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment has been established.
1.5 Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
The determination of the classification of property leases is made by reference to the land and buildings elements separately.
All leases not classified as finance leases are operating leases.
Finance leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at their fair value on acquisition or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
The corresponding obligation to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a liability.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation.
Finance charges are charged to the income statement over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital element outstanding.
Operating leases Rentals payable under operating property leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the fixed term of the lease.
At the end of the fixed term of leases, rental payments are reset to market rates, typically on an upwards only basis.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
64 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies continued 1.6 Translation of foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing at the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included in the income statement.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange during the period.
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of the results and balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are charged or credited directly to retained earnings.
Such translation differences become recognised in the income statement in the period in which the subsidiary undertaking is disposed.
1.7 Goodwill On acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, the fair value of the consideration is allocated between the identifiable net tangible and intangible assets liabilities on a fair value basis, with any excess consideration representing goodwill.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is capitalised as goodwill on the balance sheet: goodwill relating to associates is capitalised in fixed asset investments as part of the carrying value of the associate.
Goodwill is not amortised, but instead is reviewed annually for impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the net book amount recorded under UK GAAP as at the Transition Date.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 2 May 1999 remains eliminated against equity and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
1.8 Intangible assets Acquired intangibles Other purchased intangible assets, which include brands and customer lists, are capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line basis.
Other intangible assets: computer software Acquired computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred both to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of assets on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives of between 3 and 5 years.
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software are recognised as an expense as incurred unless they increase the future economic benefits of the asset, in which case they are capitalised.
Internally generated computer software is capitalised at cost if the project is technically and commercially feasible and the economic benefits are expected to be generated exceed one year.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of assets on a straight line basis between 3 and 7 years.
Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment in value or estimated loss on disposal.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 65 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued 1.9 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment in value or estimated loss on disposal.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful lives.
The rates used are: Short leasehold property over the term of the lease 2 1 Freehold and long leasehold buildings between 1 3% and 2 2% per annum 1 Fixtures, fittings and equipment between 10% and 33 3% per annum No depreciation is provided on freehold and long leasehold land or on assets in the course of construction.
1.10 Investments and other financial assets Associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting from the date on which the power to exercise significant influence passes.
For 2004 05 other investments are stated at cost, less provision for impairment in value.
Other financial assets, including trade and other receivables are recorded at cost less an allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
For 2005 06, all purchases and sales of investments and other financial assets are recognised on the date that the Group becomes committed to make such purchase or sale the trade date.
Investments Investments are initially measured at fair value and then subsequently remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of unlisted investments is estimated either by comparing recent arms length transactions or by using discounted cash flow analysis or other modelling techniques.
Gains and losses arising from revaluation at the balance sheet date are recognised directly in equity.
To the extent that any fair value losses are deemed permanent, such impairment is recognised in the income statement.
Upon sale or impairment of the investments, any cumulative gains or losses held in equity are transferred to the income statement.
Other financial assets a Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments held by the Group are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value within assets or liabilities as appropriate and then subsequently remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising from revaluation at the balance sheet date are recognised in the income statement unless the derivatives are designated as hedges and such hedges are proved to be effective.
Hedge accounting is described in note 1.15 below.
b Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables excluding derivative financial instruments are recorded at cost less an allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts and any other adjustments required to align cost to fair value.
1.11 Taxation Current taxation Current taxation is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using prevailing tax rates and adjusted for any tax payable in respect of previous periods.
66 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies continued Deferred taxation Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
No provision is made for tax which would have been payable on the distribution of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries or associated undertakings, unless the distribution of such earnings has been accrued in the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
1.12 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition, both types of cost being measured using a weighted average cost formula.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated and directly attributable costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The cost of properties held for development includes the net development costs and interest incurred during development on those projects where it is expected, on commencement, that the period will exceed one year.
1.13 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, bank overdrafts and short term highly liquid deposits with a maturity of three months or less and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are shown with borrowings under current liabilities.
1.14 Borrowings and other financial liabilities Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
Transaction costs are amortised through the income statement using the effective interest method and the unamortised balance is included as part of the related borrowing at the balance sheet date.
A fair value adjustment is made to the borrowing where hedge accounting, as described in note 1.15 below has been applied.
Other financial liabilities Trade and other payables excluding derivative financial instruments are recorded at cost.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value and then subsequently remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date and are held within assets or liabilities as appropriate.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 67 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued 1.15 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivatives are classified as non-current assets or liabilities where a hedge relationship is identified and the remaining maturity of the hedged item is greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Derivatives are classified as current assets or liabilities in all other circumstances.
Fair values are derived from market values.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, options, cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts to hedge these risks.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Where hedge accounting is to be applied, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting.
The accounting treatment of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting is dependent on how they are designated.
The different designations and accounting treatments are explained below: Fair value hedges The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities.
For 2004 05, under UK GAAP, derivative financial instruments held to hedge these exposures were accrual accounted for using hedge accounting and were not recognised at fair value in the balance sheet.
For 2005 06, derivative financial instruments that meet the fair value hedging requirements are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value with corresponding fair value movements recognised within Finance income or Finance costs in the income statement.
For an effective fair value hedge, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the income statement.
To the extent that the designated hedge relationship is effective, such amounts in the income statement offset each other.
As a result, only the ineffective element of any designated hedging relationship impacts the income statement.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item for which the effective interest method is used, is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity.
Cash flow hedges The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the foreign currency exposure on inventory ordered and purchased and certain sales of inventory.
Orders and purchases as well as sales are each considered to be separate hedge transactions.
For 2004 05, under UK GAAP, foreign currency derivatives were held off balance sheet.
68 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies continued For 2005 06, derivative financial instruments that qualify for such cash flow hedging are initially recognised on the balance sheet with gains and losses relating to the remeasurement of the effective portion of the hedge to the balance sheet date being deferred in equity.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss ie when a purchase or sale is made.
For inventory purchases, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of inventory.
For sales, the gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the income statement in the period in which the sale is made.
Net investment hedges The Group uses currency forward contracts and currency swaps to hedge its currency risk on the translation of net investments in foreign entities.
For 2004 05, under UK GAAP, gains and losses arising on the retranslation of the investments and the related derivatives were recognised in equity.
For 2005 06, gains and losses arising on the retranslation of the investments and the related derivatives are also recognised in equity.
However, this is on the basis that the hedging requirements of IAS 39 are met and the hedging relationship is effective.
1.16 Retirement benefit obligations Company contributions to defined contribution pension schemes and contributions made to state pension schemes for certain overseas employees are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis as contributions become payable.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the regular service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the period, together with the cost of any benefits relating to past service is charged to operating profit in the period.
A credit representing the expected return on assets of the retirement benefit schemes during the year is included within other finance income.
This is based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the financial period.
A charge is included within other finance costs, representing the expected increase in the liabilities of the retirement benefit schemes during the period.
The difference between the market value of the assets and the present value of the accrued pension liabilities is shown as an asset or liability in the balance sheet.
Differences between the actual and expected returns on assets during the period are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense, together with differences arising from changes in actuarial assumptions.
1.17 Share-based payments The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees which are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
This fair value is expensed in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest as adjusted for any non-market conditions.
A liability equal to the portion of services received from employees is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date for cash settled share-based payments.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 69 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued 1.18 Estimates, judgements and critical accounting policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Significant items subject to such assumptions and estimates include the useful lives of assets: the measurement and recognition of provisions: the recognition of deferred tax assets: and liabilities for potential corporation tax.
Actual results could differ from these estimates and any subsequent changes are accounted for with an effect on income at the time such updated information becomes available.
The most critical accounting policies in determining the financial condition and results of the Group are those requiring the greatest degree of subjective or complex judgements.
These relate to revenue recognition, inventory valuation, lease costs, the valuation of goodwill and acquired intangible assets, share-based payments, post retirement benefits and taxation, and are set out below.
Revenue recognition Revenue earned from the sale of customer support agreements is recognised over the term of the contracts when the Group obtains the right to consideration by performance of its contractual obligations.
Performance of these contractual obligations is determined by reference to extensive historical claims data.
Reliance on historical data assumes that current and future experience will follow past trends.
The directors consider that the quantity and quality of data available provides an appropriate proxy for current trends.
Inventory valuation Inventories are valued at the lower of average cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value includes, where necessary, provisions for slow moving and damaged stocks.
The provision represents the difference between the cost of stock and its estimated market value, based on ageing.
Calculation of these provisions requires judgements to be made which include forecast consumer demand, the promotional, competitive and economic environment and inventory loss trends.
Provisions and accruals for onerous leases If the Group vacates a store or other property prior to the expiry of the related lease, it records a provision for the expected lease payments that the Group will incur prior to assignment or sublease of the property.
Such a calculation requires a judgement as to the timing and duration of the expected vacancy periods and the amount and timing of future potential sublease income.
When making these judgements, the directors consider a number of factors, including the landlord, the location and condition of the property, the terms of the lease, the specific marketplace demand and the economic environment.
Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment impairment reviews Goodwill is required to be valued annually to assess the requirement for potential impairment.
Other assets are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead to the conclusion that the carrying value of such assets is not supportable.
Impairment testing on goodwill is carried out in accordance with the analyses described in note 9.
Such calculations require judgement relating to the appropriate discount factors and long term growth prevalent in a particular market as well as short term business performance.
The directors draw upon experience as well as external resources in making these judgements.
Share-based payments The charge for share-based payment is calculated in accordance with the analysis described in note 25.
The option valuation models used require highly subjective assumptions to be made including the future volatility of the Companys share price, expected dividend yields, risk-free interest rates and expected staff turnover.
The directors draw upon a variety of external sources to aid in the determination of the appropriate data to use in such calculations.
Defined benefit pension schemes The surplus or deficit in the UK defined benefit scheme that is charged through the statement of recognised income and expense is subject to a number of assumptions and uncertainties.
The calculated liabilities of the scheme are based on assumptions regarding salary increases, inflation rates, discount rates, the long term expected return on the schemes assets and member longevity.
Details of the assumptions used are shown in note 27.
Such assumptions are based on actuarial advice and are benchmarked against similar pension schemes.
70 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
