Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements.
They are required to prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to prepare unconsolidated company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of the consolidated IFRS financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In almost all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
The directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the financial position and financial performance.
In the case of the unconsolidated Company financial statements prepared under UK GAAP, the directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company for each financial period as at the end of that financial period and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing both the consolidated Group financial statements and the unconsolidated Company financial statements, suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
Applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records and sufficient internal controls to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud or any other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
56 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
