Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements a Accounting policies The unconsolidated financial statements for the Company have been prepared in accordance with UK law and applicable UK GAAP accounting standards.
i Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain derivative financial instruments to fair value under FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied throughout the current and preceding periods with the exception of the changes caused by the implementation of FRS 17 Retirement benefits, FRS 20 Share-based payments, FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date, FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and presentation and FRS 26 which are further discussed below.
The principal accounting policies are set out below: ii Change in accounting policy and presentation of financial information The Company has adopted FRS 17 in full for the period ended 29 April 2006.
For the period ended 30 April 2005, the Company accounted for retirement benefits under SSAP 24 Pension costs and gave disclosures in accordance with the FRS 17 transitional arrangements.
The accounting policy for retirement benefits is described below.
The adoption of FRS 17 has had no financial impact on these financial statements.
FRS 20 requires that a charge to the profit and loss account is recognised in the income statement which represents the fair value of outstanding share-based payments granted to employees.
Share-based payments comprise share options, SAYE schemes, the Deferred Equity Participation Plan DEPP and the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The fair value is determined by using option pricing models.
The binomial model has predominantly been used in such valuations.
The charge is recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period, adjusted to reflect the expected and actual levels of vesting.
Previously, no cost was incurred for share options or SAYE schemes.
The effect of FRS 21 on the Company is that dividends declared and approved after the balance sheet date should not be recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date owing to the liability not representing a present obligation to the Company.
Previously, dividends were provided for in the period in respect of which they are declared or proposed.
FRS 25 requires that financial instruments be classified in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement and the definitions of a financial liability, a financial asset and an equity instrument.
The accounting standard applies only to the period commencing 1 May 2005 onwards and accordingly, prior period figures have not been restated.
This change in accounting policy has had no effect on operating profit.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption to provide financial instrument disclosures as these are included in the consolidated financial statements.
FRS 26 requires certain financial assets and liabilities not previously recorded to be measured and recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
The key effect relates the recognition of derivative financial instruments at fair value.
Financial assets and liabilities that arise on derivatives which do not qualify for hedge accounting are held on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in value recognised in the profit and loss account.
The treatment of derivative financial instruments which qualify for hedge accounting is discussed in xi below.
The financial effects of the above changes are shown in note k. iii Operating leases Rentals payable under property leases are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments up to each market rent review date throughout the lease term.
Rentals payable under leases for plant and machinery are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the total lease term.
iv Share-based payments The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees which are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
This fair value is expensed in the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest as adjusted for any non-market conditions.
116 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
