Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies 1.1 Basis of preparation DSG international plc has historically prepared its financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices UK GAAP.
A European Union EU Regulation issued in 2002, requires the Group to report its 2005 06 results in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Commission EC.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to those companies reporting under IFRS.
Since the Company is not affected by the provisions regarding portfolio hedging that are not required by the EU endorsed version of IAS 39: Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the consolidated financial statements comply with both IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The transition date to IFRS for the Group was 2 May 2004 the Transition Date, being the start of the period of comparative information.
IFRS 1 exemptions and elections IFRS 1, First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, permits those companies adopting IFRS for the first time to apply some exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS and certain elections in the transition period.
The Group has taken the following exemptions and elections: share-based payments: IFRS 2 Share-based payment has been applied to all equity settled transactions, such as share options, granted but not fully vested as at the Transition Date.
Although IFRS 2 requires that only share-based payments granted since 7 November 2002 be included, the Group considers that retrospective application provides a better indication of how past and future results are affected by IFRS 2, particularly when compared with the level of grants year on year.
Fair values for pre 7 November 2002 share-based payments were set out in an announcement dated 11 May 2005 which is available on the Groups corporate website: employee benefits: Under IAS 19 Employee Benefits all cumulative pension actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in reserves at the Transition Date.
The amended version of IAS 19 issued in December 2004 allows companies to recognise actuarial gains and losses immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense or alternatively to be held in the balance sheet and released to the income statement over a period of time.
Commencing on the Transition Date, the Group has elected to recognise actuarial gains and losses in full in the period in which they occur in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense: business combinations: The Group elected to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations prospectively from the Transition Date.
The effect of this is that goodwill arising from business combinations prior to the Transition Date remains at the net book value as stated under UK GAAP as at the Transition Date: financial instruments: The Group has elected to defer the implementation of IAS 32 Financial instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39: Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IAS 32 and IAS 39 have been adopted from 1 May 2005.
Commencing on this date, the Group has applied hedge accounting where the requirements of IAS 39 are met.
Accordingly, the comparative period to the 2005 06 Annual Report being the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2005 reflects accounting under the 2004 05 UK GAAP basis.
The Group has elected to early adopt the IAS 39 Amendment Cash Flow Hedge Accounting for Forecast Intragroup Transactions with effect from 1 May 2005 which stipulates further circumstances where hedge accounting may be applied: and cumulative translation differences: The cumulative translation differences for all foreign subsidiaries are deemed to be zero at the Transition Date.
Accordingly, upon disposal of a foreign subsidiary, any gain or loss arising will include only those foreign exchange gains or losses attributable to periods after the Transition Date.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 63
