Consolidated Financial Statements 33 Financial information under International Financial Reporting Standards The key differences between UK GAAP and IFRS affecting the Groups accounting policies are set out below.
While this is not a comprehensive summary of all differences between UK GAAP and IFRS, other differences would have no effect or no significant effect on the consolidated net profit or shareholders funds of the Group.
A reconciliation of consolidated profit for the period and shareholders funds as at 30 April 2005 are set out below.
The following summarises the areas of reconciliation relevant to the Group between UK GAAP and IFRS.
a Share-based payments Under UK GAAP for 2004 05, no cost was incurred for share options or SAYE schemes.
In accordance with IFRS 2, which for 2005 06 has an equivalent accounting standard under UK GAAP, the Group recognises a charge to the income statement which represents the fair value of outstanding share-based payments granted to employees.
Share-based payments comprise share options, SAYE schemes, the Deferred Equity Participation Plan DEPP and the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The fair value is determined by using option pricing models and the Group has predominantly used the binomial model in such valuations.
The charge is recognised in the income statement over the vesting period, adjusted to reflect the expected and actual levels of vesting.
The basis of calculation of deferred taxation is the difference between the market price at the balance sheet date and the exercise price of the share-based payment.
Accordingly, the tax effect does not correlate to the charge.
b Employee benefits Under UK GAAP for 2004 05, a prepayment or accrual was shown in the balance sheet representing timing differences between the pension charge to the income statement and the cash payments made to the pension scheme.
Under IAS 19 Employee benefits, which for 2005 06 has an equivalent accounting standard under UK GAAP, the income statement charge is split between the operating charge and finance income and charges.
The regular service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the period, together with the cost of any benefits relating to past service is charged to operating profit in the period.
The net finance income or charge relates to the expected return on the assets of the scheme, based on market conditions prevailing at the start of the financial period, offset by unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities of the scheme.
The difference between the market value of the assets and the present value of the accrued pension liabilities is recognised as an asset or liability in the balance sheet together with the related deferred tax effect.
Differences between the actual and expected returns on assets during the period are recognised in equity reserves in the statement of recognised income and expense, together with differences arising from changes in actuarial assumptions.
This accounting treatment is consistent with that previously disclosed under FRS 17 in UK GAAP.
c Leases Under UK GAAP, determination of property finance leases is made by reference to the lease as a whole.
Under IAS 17 Leases, the determination must be made by reference to the land and buildings elements of the leases separately.
As a result, the buildings elements of a small number of leases previously recognised as operating leases have been reclassified as finance leases.
The key reasons for such reclassification are where the Group has built and developed such properties and then subsequently sold and leased back.
The circumstances and terms of the sale and lease back have determined the accounting as a finance lease.
The main impact on the balance sheet is the inclusion of the above mentioned properties within fixed assets together with the related finance lease creditor.
The movement in this creditor is shown within financing activities in the cash flow statement and accordingly, has the effect of reducing net funds.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 109 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33 Financial information under International Financial Reporting Standards continued The key impact on the income statement is that for these specific leases, the rentals under operating leases charged to operating profit under UK GAAP are replaced with a depreciation charge on the fixed asset and a finance charge is included within interest.
The total amounts charged to the income statement over the life of the finance lease remain the same under both UK GAAP and IFRS, however, under IFRS a higher charge is incurred in the early years of a lease reflecting higher interest charges.
The net impact of this charge on the income statement is small.
IAS 17 also requires that, where a lease contains fixed minimum rental uplifts at predetermined review dates, the fixed minimum lease payments are accounted for on a straight line basis over the entire fixed term irrespective of the time value of money and the actual cash payments.
This has the effect that in the earlier years of such leases, the income statement charge is higher than the contractual payments.
d Lease incentives Under UK GAAP, the Groups policy on recognition of lease incentives was to spread the incentive over the period to the first market rent review.
Under IFRS, SIC 15 Operating leases incentives the requirement is for such incentives to be spread over the life of the lease.
e Dividends Under UK GAAP for 2004 05, dividends are provided for in the period in respect of which they are declared or proposed.
IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, which for 2005 06 has an equivalent accounting standard under UK GAAP, requires that dividends are recognised only in the period in which they are approved.
f Business combinations and intangible assets Under UK GAAP, goodwill on acquisitions made by the Group since 2 May 1999, has been capitalised on the balance sheet and amortised over its estimated life where such a life has been determined to be finite.
Prior to 2 May 1999, goodwill arising on acquisitions was eliminated against reserves in the consolidated balance sheet in the year in which the acquisition was made.
IFRS 3 prohibits the amortisation of goodwill and requires goodwill to be carried at cost with impairment reviews conducted annually and at other times if there are indications that the carrying amount may not be supportable.
The Group has adopted the transitional provisions set out in IFRS 1, to apply IFRS 3 prospectively from the Transition Date whereby goodwill arising on acquisitions made prior to this is frozen as at the Transition Date and any goodwill amortisation occurring in the financial year 2004 05 is therefore reversed for IFRS reporting purposes.
Only a small proportion of the Groups goodwill was determined to have a finite life under UK GAAP and, accordingly, the effect of ceasing to amortise is small.
IAS 38 Intangible Assets requires other intangible assets to be separately identified and amortised over their useful economic lives.
These lives are not typically indefinite and as a result, upon acquisition of a company, intangible assets such as brands and customer lists are now separately valued and then amortised over their useful economic lives.
Additionally, UK GAAP requires that on subsequent disposal or closure of a previously acquired subsidiary, any goodwill previously taken directly to shareholders funds is then charged to the income statement as part of profit or loss on disposal or closure.
Under IFRS the appropriate balance to be written off on the disposal of the business is the remaining unamortised balance for goodwill.
110 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Consolidated Financial Statements 33 Financial information under International Financial Reporting Standards continued g Taxation Under UK GAAP, deferred tax is provided for in full on all timing differences which have not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are regarded as more likely than not to be recoverable.
Although some differences exist between IFRS and UK GAAP, those aspects of IAS 12 Income Taxes applicable to the Company are similar to UK GAAP and therefore have no effect on the Groups UK GAAP figures.
IAS 12 has, however, been applied to the IFRS adjustments discussed above.
h Presentation of financial statements The primary financial statements are presented in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
Although similar, such a presentation differs from the UK GAAP equivalent.
Under UK GAAP exceptional item was a defined term.
Under IAS 1, there is no definition of exceptional item.
However, the standard provides examples of circumstances where, when such items of income and expense are material, the nature and amount should be disclosed separately.
Included in these examples are many one off items which the Group has previously described as exceptional.
Accordingly, the Group will continue to identify such items separately.
i Reclassification changes The following reflects the key presentational changes to the balance sheet and income statement and cash flow statement.
Such changes have no effect on either future net assets or profits: under UK GAAP, capitalised computer software is included within tangible fixed assets on the balance sheet.
Under IFRS, only computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is included as property, plant and equipment.
All other computer software is included as an intangible asset.
As a result, certain software previously shown as fixed assets has been reclassified as intangible assets: under UK GAAP, specific definitions exist for cash at bank and in hand and short term investments.
Under IFRS, a new category described as cash and cash equivalents replaces the UK GAAP equivalent of cash at bank and in hand.
The definition of cash and cash equivalents results in a reclassification of certain amounts from short term investments into cash and cash equivalents: under UK GAAP, provisions for liabilities and charges are not required to be split between current and non-current.
IFRS requires this distinction to be made: under UK GAAP, deferred tax assets are split between amounts falling due within one year and amounts falling due after more than one year.
IFRS requires all deferred tax asset balances to be shown as non-current: unlike UK GAAP, IFRS makes no distinction in the income statement between operating and non-operating items.
Accordingly, all items previously classified as non-operating will be reclassified as operating.
However, separate disclosure of such non-operating items will continue to be made as in the past: and under UK GAAP, cash flows excluded deposits with maturities exceeding 24 hours as such amounts were included within short term investments.
Under IFRS, cash flows exclude only those amounts with maturities exceeding three months in order to reconcile to cash and cash equivalents which are further defined above.
The UK GAAP presentation of the cash flow statement differs from the IFRS presentation in that IFRS requires classification between Operating, Investing and Financing, whereas UK GAAP stipulated additional separate categories.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 111 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33 Financial information under International Financial Reporting Standards continued j Derivative financial instruments The transitional effects of adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39 are described in note 21.
Summary of differences between UK GAAP and IFRS on profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders 52 weeks ended 30 April 2005 million Profit for the period in accordance with UK GAAP extant at 30 April 2005 243.1 IFRS adjustments Share-based payments IFRS 2 8.7 Employee benefits IAS 19 0.3 Leases IAS 17 finance leases 1.5 fixed rentals 1.2 Lease incentives SIC 15 1.0 IFRS adjustments to underlying operating profit 9.1 Amortisation of intangibles acquired IAS 38 1.2 Goodwill amortisation reversal IFRS 3 7.2 IFRS adjustments to total operating profit 3.1 Employee benefits IAS 19 net interest benefit 2.1 Leases IAS 17 interest charge 3.3 IFRS adjustments to finance income 1.2 Share-based payments IFRS 2 tax effect 0.7 Employee benefits IAS 19 tax effect 0.7 Leases IAS 17 finance leases tax effect 0.5 fixed rentals tax effect 0.4 Lease incentives SIC 15 tax effect 0.3 Amortisation of intangibles acquired IAS 38 tax effect 0.4 IFRS adjustments to taxation 1.6 Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company in accordance with IFRS 240.4 112 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
