Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements a Accounting policies The unconsolidated financial statements for the Company have been prepared in accordance with UK law and applicable UK GAAP accounting standards.
i Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain derivative financial instruments to fair value under FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied throughout the current and preceding periods with the exception of the changes caused by the implementation of FRS 17 Retirement benefits, FRS 20 Share-based payments, FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date, FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and presentation and FRS 26 which are further discussed below.
The principal accounting policies are set out below: ii Change in accounting policy and presentation of financial information The Company has adopted FRS 17 in full for the period ended 29 April 2006.
For the period ended 30 April 2005, the Company accounted for retirement benefits under SSAP 24 Pension costs and gave disclosures in accordance with the FRS 17 transitional arrangements.
The accounting policy for retirement benefits is described below.
The adoption of FRS 17 has had no financial impact on these financial statements.
FRS 20 requires that a charge to the profit and loss account is recognised in the income statement which represents the fair value of outstanding share-based payments granted to employees.
Share-based payments comprise share options, SAYE schemes, the Deferred Equity Participation Plan DEPP and the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The fair value is determined by using option pricing models.
The binomial model has predominantly been used in such valuations.
The charge is recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period, adjusted to reflect the expected and actual levels of vesting.
Previously, no cost was incurred for share options or SAYE schemes.
The effect of FRS 21 on the Company is that dividends declared and approved after the balance sheet date should not be recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date owing to the liability not representing a present obligation to the Company.
Previously, dividends were provided for in the period in respect of which they are declared or proposed.
FRS 25 requires that financial instruments be classified in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement and the definitions of a financial liability, a financial asset and an equity instrument.
The accounting standard applies only to the period commencing 1 May 2005 onwards and accordingly, prior period figures have not been restated.
This change in accounting policy has had no effect on operating profit.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption to provide financial instrument disclosures as these are included in the consolidated financial statements.
FRS 26 requires certain financial assets and liabilities not previously recorded to be measured and recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
The key effect relates the recognition of derivative financial instruments at fair value.
Financial assets and liabilities that arise on derivatives which do not qualify for hedge accounting are held on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in value recognised in the profit and loss account.
The treatment of derivative financial instruments which qualify for hedge accounting is discussed in xi below.
The financial effects of the above changes are shown in note k. iii Operating leases Rentals payable under property leases are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments up to each market rent review date throughout the lease term.
Rentals payable under leases for plant and machinery are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the total lease term.
iv Share-based payments The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees which are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
This fair value is expensed in the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest as adjusted for any non-market conditions.
116 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Parent Company Financial Statements a Accounting policies continued A liability equal to the portion of services received from employees is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date for cash settled share-based payments.
v Translation of foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included in the profit and loss account.
vi Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment or estimated loss on disposal.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful lives.
The rates used are: 1 Fixtures, fittings and equipment between 10 per cent and 33 3 per cent per annum vii Investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment in value.
Short term investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value with the exception of assets held to maturity, which are stated at cost net of amortised premium or discount.
viii Taxation Current taxation Current taxation is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using prevailing tax rates and adjusted for any tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided for in full on all timing differences which have not reversed at the balance sheet date.
No provision is made for tax which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries or associated undertakings, unless the distribution of such earnings has been accrued in the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
ix Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
Transaction costs are amortised through the income statement using the effective interest method and the unamortised balance is included as part of the related borrowing at the balance sheet date.
A fair value adjustment is made to the borrowing where hedge accounting, as described in xi below has been applied.
x Post retirement benefits The expected cost of providing pensions under the defined benefit pension scheme arrangements, as calculated periodically by qualified actuaries, is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members in such a way that the pension cost is a substantially level percentage of current and expected future pensionable payroll.
It is not practical to allocate the underlying assets and liabilities of the defined benefit section to individual companies, on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Therefore, following full implementation of FRS 17, the Company has accounted for its contributions to the defined benefit section of the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
The Companys contributions to the defined contribution section of the pension scheme are charged to the profit and loss account on an accruals basis as they become payable.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 117
