Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report To the members of DSG international plc We have audited the Group financial statements of DSG international plc for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2006 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 35.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the individual Company financial statements of DSG international plc for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion on whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether the Group financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation IAS Regulation No 1606 2002.
We report to you whether, in our opinion, the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
We also report to you if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report for the above financial period as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors Remuneration Report and we consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 57
