96 Company information and professional advisers and service providers Drax Group plc Professional advisers and service providers Registered office and trading address Auditors Drax Power Station Deloitte & Touche LLP PO Box 3 Stonecutter Court Selby 1 Stonecutter Street North Yorkshire YO8 8PQ London EC4A 4TR Telephone 44 0 1757 618381 Bankers Fax 44 0 1757 612192 Barclays Bank plc Registration details 1 Churchill Place Registered in England and Wales Canary Wharf Company Number: 5562053 London E14 5HP Company website Brokers www.
uk Deutsche Bank AG Winchester House Company secretary 1 Great Winchester Street Peter Rothwell London EC2N 2DB Enquiry e-mail address Dresdner Kleinwort Limited enquiries@draxpower.
com PO Box 52715 30 Gresham Street London EC2P 2XY Financial PR Tulchan Communications Group Limited Sixth Floor, Kildare House 3 Dorset Rise London EC4Y 8EN Remuneration Kepler Associates 60 Trafalgar Square London WC2N 5DS Registrars Capita Registrars Capita IRG Plc Northern House Woodsome Park Fenay Bridge Huddersfield HD8 0LA Solicitors Norton Rose Kempson House Camomile Street London EC3A 7AN Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Principal performance indicators of 2006 Glossary Availability Planned Outage Total revenue Average percentage of time the units were available for generation.
A period during which scheduled maintenance is executed according to the budget set at the outset of the year.
Average achieved price Power revenues divided by volume of net sales includes imbalance charges.
Planned Outage Rate 49% at 1,387 million 19 The capacity not available due to planned outages expressed as a percentage Average capture price of the maximum theoretical capacity.
Revenue derived from bilateral contracts divided by volume of net merchant sales.
Power revenues Average achieved price of electricity Bilateral contracts The aggregate of bilateral contracts and Balancing Mechanism income expense.
Contract with counterparties and power exchange trades.
Refinancing and Listing Balancing Mechanism 21 The financial restructuring of the Group effective on 15 December 2005 resulting 39% to 48.9 per MWh The period during which the System Operator can call upon additional in the creation of a new holding company, Drax Group plc.
Pursuant to the schemes generation consumption or reduce generation consumption, through market of arrangement under which the Refinancing and Listing was implemented, participants bids and offers, in order to balance the system minute by minute.
the existing debt of the Group was settled partially through the issue of new Net sales debt and partially through the issue of ordinary shares in Drax Group plc.
Baseload Also, on 15 December 2005, Drax Group plc was introduced to the Official List Running 24 hours per day, seven days per week remaining permanently of the UK Listing Authority and its ordinary shares commenced trading on the synchronised to the system.
19 2.0TWh to 25.2TWh Dark green spread ROCs The difference between the price available in the market for sales of electricity Renewables Obligation Certificates.
One ROC is issued to eligible generators and the marginal cost of production being the cost of coal and other fuels 1 for every MWh of electricity generated from renewable sources.
Gross profit including CO2 emissions allowances.
SAYE Plan EBITDA The Drax Group plc Approved Savings-Related Share Option Plan.
Profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, exceptional items and 19 92% to 746 million unrealised gains losses on derivative contracts.
SIP The Drax Group plc Approved Share Incentive Plan.
EBITDA enhancements EBITDA enhancement projects advised to investors in March 2005.
2 Summer EBITDA The calendar months April to September.
EU ETS The EU Emissions Trading Scheme is a policy introduced across Europe to reduce Summer baseload market close emissions of CO2: the scheme is capable of being extended to cover all greenhouse Market price on the last day that the season was traded as a product.
Technical Availability ESIP Total availability after planned and forced outages.
The Drax Group plc Restricted Share Plan, also known as the Drax Group plc Health and safety Executive Share Incentive Plan.
The Company Drax Group plc.
Forced Outage Any reduction in plant availability excluding planned outages.
The Group 33 72% reduction in total recordable injury rate Drax Group plc and its subsidiaries.
Forced Outage Rate The capacity which is not available due to forced outages or restrictions expressed TXU as a percentage of the maximum theoretical capacity, less planned outage capacity.
TXU Europe Energy Trading Limited in administration and subject to a company Plant availability voluntary arrangement.
TXU Claim 15 The claim issued by the Group, ultimately agreed by the Administrators of Best ever performance at 90% IFRSs TXU at approximately 348 million including VAT in respect of unpaid power International Financial Reporting Standards.
purchased by TXU and liquidated damages under the TXU Contract.
Notes: 1 Gross profit is defined as total revenues less total fuel costs of 641 million 2005: 540 million.
LECs TXU Contract Levy Exemption Certificates.
Evidence of Climate Change Levy exempt electricity A 15 year power purchase agreement with TXU.
2 EBITDA is profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, exceptional items and unrealised gains losses on derivative contracts.
supplies generated from qualifying renewable sources.
Exceptional items in 2006 comprise 19 million income received under the TXU Claim.
UK NAP Load factor UK National Allocation Plan.
Percentage of actual net sales to potential maximum net generation.
Winter LTIP The calendar months October to March.
Contents The Drax Group Limited Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Winter baseload market close Statements Governance Accounts Net Balancing Mechanism Market price on the last day that the season was traded as a product.
Principal performance indicators of 2006 ifc Board of directors 36 Consolidated income statements 60 Net volumes attributable to accepted bids and offers in the Balancing Mechanism.
Chairmans introduction 12 Directors report 38 Consolidated statements of Net merchant sales recognised income and expense 61 Chief Executives review 14 Corporate governance 41 Net volumes attributable to bilateral contracts and power exchange trades.
Consolidated balance sheets 62 Business and financial review 18 Audit Committee report 45 Net sales Consolidated cash flow statements 63 Corporate and social responsibility review 28 Nominations Committee report 48 The aggregate of net merchant sales and net Balancing Mechanism.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 64 Shareholder information 94 Remuneration Committee report 49 Company balance sheets 90 Company information and professional advisers 96 Group Independent auditors report 59 Notes to the Company balance sheets 91 Glossary ibc Company Independent auditors report 89 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 2006 Drax Group plc Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts Drax Power Station PO Box 3 Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PQ Telephone: 44 0 1757 618381 Fax: 44 0 1757 612192 www.
uk Design and production: Radley Yeldar Photography: Marcus Ginns
