DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 43 Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report and year of 8.4p 2004 05: 8.4p net per ordinary business in the Plastic Packaging segment, BSK, for a loss of 2.6 million.
Total proceeds the audited financial statements for the financial share.
Subject to approval of shareholders year ended 30 April 2006.
The Directors at the Annual General Meeting to be held on for the disposals in the year were 11.0 million.
statement as to disclosure of information 6 September 2006, the final dividend will be In August 2004, the Group acquired BPB to auditors, as required by Section 234ZA paid on 19 September 2006 to shareholders Recycling, a recovered paper collection of the Companies Act 1985 is on page 45. on the register at the close of business on business, from BPB plc for consideration 18 August 2006.
The dividends per ordinary of 9.4 million.
Negative goodwill of Principal Activities and share stated above are those actually paid 0.2 million arose.
Historical dividends per share Business Review The Company acts as the holding company have been restated for the bonus element Research and Development of a group, which, during 2005 06, was inherent in the 26 March 2004 rights issue The Group recognises the importance engaged in the production of corrugated in the Five Year Summary on page 98. of continuing to invest in research and and plastic packaging and of paper, primarily development.
It is Group policy to develop from recycled waste, and the distribution of Share Capital new product specifications commensurate office products.
A full review of the activities Pursuant to the Companys employee share with environmental needs and packaging during the financial year ended 30 April 2006 option schemes, 1,780,682 ordinary shares solutions required by customers.
Research is and future developments is given in the of 10p each were issued during the year.
No also conducted into ways to improve product Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives shares pursuant to the Companys employee quality and to find more cost-efficient methods Review and Business Review on pages 4 share option schemes were issued between of production and distribution.
The principal subsidiary undertakings 30 April 2006 and 28 June 2006 inclusive.
development is conducted within divisional are listed in note 33 on page 86.
The Company has not utilised its authority operations and expenditure is not significant.
to make market purchases of shares granted The information that fulfils the requirements to it at the 2005 Annual General Meeting of the Business Review can be found in the Directors but will be seeking to renew such authority Business Review on pages 9 to 32, which are The biographies of the present Directors are at this years meeting.
incorporated in this report by reference.
All the present Directors served Business Review has been prepared to meet throughout the year.
Mr A P Hichens, who Substantial Shareholders the requirements for companies to provide an has been Chairman since September 1999, At 28 June 2006, the Company has been enhanced Business Review in accordance with will retire from the Board at the end of informed of the following notifiable interests the EU Accounts Modernisation Directive and December 2006, having reached the age in its issued ordinary share capital: the March 2005 amendments to the UKs 1985 of 70.
Mr P M Johnson, who has been a nonOrdinary shares held % Companies Act.
Executive Director of the Company since Prudential plc 16,708,775 4.27% December 1999, will become Chairman on Cautionary Statement Legal & General 1 January 2007.
Mr J P Loison will retire from The purpose of the Annual Report is to Group plc 15,125,894 3.87% the Board on 30 September 2006.
Other than provide information to the members of the as previously disclosed in this Report and in Company.
The Annual Report contains certain Henderson Global respect of existing service agreements, no forward-looking statements with respect to Investors Ltd 13,938,743 3.57% Director, either during or at the end of the the operations, performance and financial Dimensional Fund financial year, has been materially interested condition of the Group.
By their nature, these Advisors Inc 11,944,196 3.06% in any significant contract or arrangement statements involve uncertainty since future in relation to the Groups business.
events and circumstances can cause results and Acquisitions and Disposals developments to differ from those anticipated.
On 30 September 2005, the Group acquired Re-election of Directors Nothing in this Annual Report should be Timmermans NV, the largest office products The Articles of Association require that all construed as a profit forecast.
wholesaler in the Benelux region.
The Group Directors who are subject to retirement by paid 10.5 million as net consideration: rotation retire every three years, but they are Results for the Year additional consideration of up to 2.8 million eligible to submit themselves for re-election The financial results are shown on pages is payable to the previous owners depending by the shareholders.
The Directors retiring 48 to 97. on the performance of the business in future by rotation at the Annual General Meeting financial periods.
Goodwill of 2.8 million on 6 September 2006 are Mr P M Johnson, Dividends arose on the acquisition.
An interim dividend of 2.6p net per ordinary Mr R E C Marton, Mr G M Morris and share was paid on 7 March 2006 and the In July 2005, the Group sold its Office Products Mr D R Piette but, being eligible, they offer Directors recommend the final dividend be themselves for re-election at the Meeting.
Manufacturing business, John Dickinson, for maintained at 5.8p net per ordinary share, a loss of 1.7 million.
In December 2005, the Following formal performance evaluation, making a total dividend to be paid for the Group sold its plastic coating and laminating the individual performance of the Directors 44 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Directors Report continued offering themselves for re-election continues orientation, age or disability.
Every possible Payment to Suppliers to be effective and they continue to step will be taken to ensure that individuals Although the Company does not follow any demonstrate commitment to the role.
are treated equally and fairly.
Depending upon formal code or standard on payment practice, their skills and abilities, the Group applies the the Company agrees terms and conditions in Directors Interests in Shares same criteria to disabled persons as it does to the UK with each supplier, which include The interests of the Directors and their other employees and, if necessary, retraining terms of payment.
The Company pays each immediate families in the ordinary shares of is offered to any of its employees who develop supplier accordingly, subject to all the terms 10p each of the Company, including options a disability during such employment.
and conditions of the order being satisfied by granted but not yet exercised under the such supplier.
The aggregate amount owed by Executive Share Option Schemes, Restricted Pension Fund the Company to trade creditors at 30 April Share Plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan, The Group has five UK pension arrangements: 2006 was equivalent to 18 days of purchases were as shown in the tables on pages 40 two defined benefit schemes which are closed invoiced by suppliers during the year.
to new entrants, one defined contribution and 41. scheme, one Group personal pension plan Charitable and Political Donations and a statutory Stakeholder arrangement.
The Employee Involvement and The Group contributed 84,000 2004 05: defined contribution scheme was introduced Communications 128,000 to charities in the UK.
In 2004 05 for UK employees joining the Group on or The Group is committed to effective employee John Dickinson Stationery, which was sold after 1 May 2005. communications to promote the understanding in July 2005, had contributed a substantial and involvement of all its employees in the donation to a charity as a result of a causeThe investment of the assets of the various Groups business objectives and performance.
No payments arrangements are managed on a discretionary Communications and personnel policies have were made to political parties.
Donations were basis by AllianceBernstein Institutional been developed to reflect the philosophy made by operating divisions to support their Investment Management Limited, Majedie of operating management.
The Group also supported Asset Management Limited, Pacific Investment regularly communicated by briefings and a number of other charities across a range Management Company, Barclays Global newsletters.
The Group operates a European of causes.
Investors Limited and Legal and General Works Council, with representatives drawn Investment Management Limited for the defined from across the entire workforce in the Annual General Meeting benefit schemes.
The defined contribution EU countries in which the Group operates.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting of scheme is a trust-based arrangement offering Meetings are held to provide an exchange the Company to be held on 6 September 2006, members a range of investments with Axa Sun of transnational information and consultation together with explanations of the Resolutions Life plc and external investment fund managers, with employees.
At each meeting, to be proposed, appears at the back of this selected by the Schemes trustees.
The Group presentations are made on the Groups Annual Report.
personal pension plan is a contract-based business strategy, financial results, health arrangement offering members a range of and safety and environmental performance.
Auditors investments with Norwich Union Life and In 2005, the Group established divisional Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as external investment fund managers, and the Consultation Forums for its UK employees.
auditors of the Company and to authorise the Stakeholder arrangement is provided through These bodies have strengthened the process Directors to determine their remuneration will Investment Solutions Limited.
All such assets of information exchange, consultation and be put to the Annual General Meeting.
are held independently from the Group.
The representation between the Group and its trustees of each pension scheme send an Annual By Order of the Board workforce.
Business decisions concerning Report to the members of that scheme.
The capital investment, employment and training Trustee Companies, where applicable, have Carolyn Cattermole take into account the Groups public and Investment Sub Committees, which have been Secretary local responsibilities.
The Group supports established in line with guidelines recommended 28 June 2006 the involvement of its operations in local in the Myners Report.
Health and Safety Equal Opportunities The Group recognises its responsibilities and The Group wholeheartedly supports continues to promote all aspects of health and the principle and achievement of equal safety in the interests of its employees and opportunities in employment and its policies are members of the public.
A Health and Safety designed to provide such equality irrespective Policy Statement has been approved by of sex, creed, ethnic origin, nationality, sexual the Board.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 45 The Directors are responsible for keeping Statement of Directors proper accounting records that disclose with Responsibilities in Respect reasonable accuracy at any time the financial of the Annual Report and position of the Company and enable them to the Financial Statements ensure that its financial statements comply The Directors are responsible for preparing with the Companies Act 1985.
They have the Annual Report and the Group and general responsibility for taking such steps as Company financial statements in accordance are reasonably open to them to safeguard the with applicable law and regulations.
assets of the Group and to prevent and detect Company law requires the Directors to fraud and other irregularities.
prepare Group and Company financial Under applicable law and regulations, the statements for each financial year.
Under that Directors are also responsible for preparing a law they are required to prepare the Group Directors Report, Remuneration Report and financial statements in accordance with IFRS, Corporate Governance Report that comply as adopted by the EU, and have elected to with that law and those regulations.
prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate The Group financial statements are required and financial information included on the by law and IFRS, as adopted by the EU, to Companys website.
Legislation in the UK present fairly the financial position and the governing the preparation and dissemination performance of the Group: the Companies of financial statements may differ from Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true Each Director confirms that: and fair view are references to their achieving a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant a fair presentation.
audit information of which the Companys The Company financial statements are auditors are unaware: and required by law to give a true and fair view b he has taken all the steps he ought to have of the state of affairs of the Company.
taken as a Director in order to make himself In preparing each of the Group and Company aware of any relevant audit information and financial statements, the Directors are to establish that the Companys auditors are required to: aware of that information.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, assert whether these have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU: for the Company financial statements, assert whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
