DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 99 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2006 Notice is hereby given that the Annual 5 December 2007 save that the Company c the maximum price which may be General Meeting of DS Smith Plc will be shall be entitled under such authority to paid for each ordinary share is an amount held at the Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool honour at any time before expiry thereof equal to 105% of the average of the any commitment to allot its ordinary shares Street, London EC2M 7QN, on Wednesday middle market quotations for an ordinary 6 September 2006 at 12 noon to consider which will or might be concluded wholly or share as derived from the London Stock partly after the expiry of such authority: and and, if thought fit, pass the following Exchange Daily Official List for the five resolutions, of which Resolutions 1 to 11 business days immediately preceding the c all previous authorities under Section will be proposed as ordinary resolutions date of any such purchase exclusive of 80 of the Companies Act 1985 be revoked.
and Resolutions 12, 13 and 14 will be expenses payable by the Company : and 12 That: proposed as special resolutions: d the authority hereby conferred shall, a in accordance with article 7 of the 1 To receive and adopt the Directors unless previously varied, revoked or Articles of Association of the Company, renewed, expire on 5 December 2007 or, Report, the Auditors Report and the Directors be given power to allot financial statements for the year ended if earlier, at the conclusion of the next equity securities for cash: Annual General Meeting of the Company, 30 April 2006. save that the Company shall be entitled b the Directors be empowered to allot 2 To declare a final dividend on the under such authority to make at any time equity securities within Section 94 3A ordinary shares.
before the expiry thereof any contract to of the Companies Act 1985 as if Section purchase its ordinary shares which will or 3 To approve the Report on Remuneration.
89 1 of the Act did not apply: might be concluded wholly or partly after 4 To re-elect Mr P M Johnson as a Director c the powers under paragraph a above the expiry of such authority.
other than in connection with a rights issue 14 That the regulations set out in the printed and paragraph b above shall be limited to 5 To re-elect Mr R E C Marton as a Director document submitted to the Meeting and the allotment of equity securities having a of the Company.
for the purpose of identification initialled maximum nominal amount of 1,954,624: by the Chairman be adopted as the 6 To re-elect Mr G M Morris as a Director d these authorities shall expire at Articles of Association of the Company of the Company.
the conclusion of the Annual General in substitution for all existing articles 7 To re-elect Mr D R Piette as a Director Meeting to be held in 2007 or, if earlier, of association of the Company.
5 December 2007 save that the Company By Order of the Board shall be entitled under such authorities to 8 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as honour at any time before expiry thereof Carolyn Cattermole Auditors of the Company.
any commitment to allot its ordinary Secretary 9 To authorise the Directors to determine shares which will or might be concluded 4-16 Artillery Row the remuneration of the Auditors.
wholly or partly after the expiry of such London SW1P 1RZ authority: and 19 July 2006 10 That the provisions of French Section II of the DS Smith Plc 1999 Executive e all previous authorities under Section Share Option Scheme the Scheme 95 of the Companies Act 1985 be revoked.
be approved in their current form, 13 That in accordance with article 11 of the unamended, so that the Company can Articles of Association of the Company and continue to grant options under that the Companies Act 1985, the Company is Section to eligible employees resident generally and unconditionally authorised to in France in a tax efficient manner make market purchases within the meaning for a period of 38 months from the of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary date of the approval.
shares of 10p each in the capital of the 11 That: Company in such manner and on such terms as the Directors may from time a in accordance with article 6 of the to time determine provided that: Articles of Association of the Company, the Directors be authorised to allot a the maximum number of ordinary relevant securities up to a maximum shares hereby authorised to be purchased nominal amount of 10,945,894: is 39,092,479 ordinary shares: b this authority shall expire at the b the minimum price which may be paid conclusion of the Annual General for each ordinary share is 10p exclusive Meeting to be held in 2007 or, if earlier, of expenses payable by the Company : 100 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2006 continued of a proxy or an amendment to the v Copies of the following documents will be Notes instruction given to a previously appointed available for inspection at the Registered i Only those Members registered proxy must, in order to be valid, be Office and at the offices of Allen & Overy in the Register of Members of the transmitted so as to be received by the LLP, One New Change, London EC4M Company as at 6 pm on 4 September 2006 issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest 9QQ during normal business hours and at shall be entitled to attend and vote at time for receipt of proxy appointments the place of the Meeting from 11.45 am the Meeting in respect of the number specified in iii above.
For this purpose, until its conclusion: of shares registered in their names at the time of receipt will be taken to be that time.
a Service contracts of the Executive the time as determined by the timestamp Directors: ii A Member entitled to attend and vote applied to the message by the CREST at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one Applications Host from which the b Letters of appointment of the or more Proxies to attend and, on a poll, issuers agent is able to retrieve the non-Executive Directors: to vote instead of him.
A Proxy need not message by enquiry to CREST in the c Articles of Association: and be a Member of the Company.
After this time any change of instructions d Proposed new Articles of Association.
iii A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
To be to proxies appointed through CREST effective, Forms of Proxy must reach vi The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration should be communicated to the appointee the Registrars at the address shown on and Nomination Committees will be through other means.
the Form not later than 48 hours before available to answer relevant questions the time of the Meeting.
Completion CREST Members and, where applicable, at the Meeting.
and return of the Form will not, however, their CREST sponsors or voting service prevent a Member from attending and providers should note that CRESTCo voting at the Meeting.
does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular iv CREST Members who wish to appoint messages.
Normal system timings and Explanatory notes on the resolutions a proxy or proxies through the CREST limitations will therefore apply in Resolution 1: electronic proxy appointment service relation to the input of CREST Proxy Report and financial statements may do so for the Meeting to be held on Instructions.
It is the responsibility of The Directors present to shareholders at 6 September 2006 and any adjournment s the CREST Member concerned to take the Annual General Meeting the Reports of thereof by using the procedures described or, if the CREST Member is a CREST the Directors and Auditors and the financial in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal personal Member or sponsored Member statements of the Company for the year Members or other CREST sponsored or has appointed a voting service ended 30 April 2006.
These are contained Members, and those CREST Members provider s, to procure that his CREST in the Annual Report.
who have appointed a voting service sponsor or voting service provider s provider s, should refer to their CREST take s such action as shall be necessary Resolution 2: sponsor or voting service provider s, who Declaration of a final dividend to ensure that a message is transmitted will be able to take the appropriate action by means of the CREST system by any Final dividends declared by shareholders on their behalf.
In this connection, CREST must not exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
By passing Resolution 2, Members and, where applicable, their In order for a proxy appointment or CREST sponsors or voting service shareholders will declare a final dividend.
instruction made using the CREST The amount of the final dividend providers are referred, in particular, to service to be valid, the appropriate those sections of the CREST Manual recommended by the Directors is 5.8p net CREST message a CREST Proxy concerning practical limitations of the per ordinary share.
Instruction must be properly CREST system and timings.
authenticated in accordance with Resolution 3: CRESTCos specifications and must The Company may treat as invalid Approval of Report on Remuneration contain the information required for a CREST Proxy Instruction in the As required by the Directors Remuneration such instructions, as described in the circumstances set out in Regulation Report Regulations 2002, shareholder CREST Manual.
The message, regardless 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities approval is sought for the Report on of whether it constitutes the appointment Regulations 2001.
Remuneration set out on pages 36 to 42.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 101 Resolutions 4 7: to French Section II which was formally propose to seek shareholders approval to Re-election of Directors approved by shareholders on 8 September renew this authority, pursuant to Section 95 The Articles of Association of the Company 1999 and further approved by shareholders of the Companies Act 1985, to allot such on 3 September 2003, shareholder approval is securities, notwithstanding the requirement require that all Directors retire at least once every three years but are eligible to submit being sought to allow grants of options under imposed by Section 89, in two cases: the Section for a further period of 38 months themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
in connection with a rights issue: and from the date of the Resolution so that any The Directors who retire at each Annual options granted will qualify for beneficial allotments of shares for cash up to a total General Meeting are those who would tax treatment.
nominal value of 1,954,624 representing otherwise have served for over three years 5% of the Companys issued share capital without re-election by the date of the Resolution 11: at 28 June 2006 although it is not intended following Annual General Meeting.
Directors authority to allot shares without prior consultation with the Authority was granted to the Directors at last Mr Johnson, Mr Marton and Mr Morris will investment committee of the Association years Annual General Meeting, pursuant to retire and, being eligible, offer themselves of British Insurers to issue or transfer in this Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, to for re-election at this years Annual General way more than 7.5% of the share capital allot shares in the Company without the prior Meeting.
Mr Johnson is a member of the in a rolling three-year period.
This gives consent of shareholders for a period of five Nomination, Audit and Remuneration the Directors flexibility to take advantage years.
Resolution 11, which will be proposed Committees.
Mr Marton is a member of of business opportunities as they arise, as an ordinary resolution, will, if passed, the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
including the sale of any shares the give the Directors renewed authority to Mr Morris is a member of the General Company has purchased and held in allot shares up to a maximum nominal Purposes Committee.
Mr Piette is submitting treasury, whilst the 5% limit ensures that value of 10,945,894 representing 28% himself for re-election as he has served more existing shareholders interests are protected, of the issued share capital of the Company than three terms of appointment.
and is in line with guidelines issued by at 28 June 2006. institutional investors bodies.
A biography of each Director, including those Other than in connection with any exercise seeking re-election, appears on page 5 of the This authority will expire at the conclusion of options under the Groups employee share Annual Report.
of the next Annual General Meeting, or, if option schemes, the Directors have no earlier, on 5 December 2007, except in so Resolutions 8 and 9: present intention of exercising the allotment far as commitments to allot shares have been Re-appointment of Auditors authority proposed by this Resolution.
This entered into before that date.
It is the present The auditors of a company must be authority will expire at the conclusion of the intention of the Directors to seek a similar re-appointed at each general meeting at next Annual General Meeting, or, if earlier, authority annually.
Resolution 8 on 5 December 2007, except in so far as proposes the re-appointment of the Companys commitments to allot shares have been Resolution 13: existing Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, until the entered into before that date.
It is the present Companys authority to purchase shares next Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 9 intention of the Directors to seek a similar This Resolution, which will be proposed gives authority to the Directors to determine authority annually.
as a special resolution, seeks to renew the Auditors remuneration.
the existing authority for the Company Resolution 12: to purchase its own shares in the market.
Resolution 10: Directors power to disapply This authority gives the Company greater Re-approve French Section II to the Executive pre-emption rights flexibility in managing its capital resources.
Share Option Scheme This Resolution, which will be proposed as a The Directors have no specific intention of The Company has been advised that under special resolution, supplements the Directors using this authority and would do so only the applicable French legislation, shareholder authority to allot shares in the Company when, in the light of market conditions, they approval needs to be obtained if the Company proposed by Resolution 11.
Section 89 of believed that the effect of such purchases wishes to continue to grant options under the Companies Act 1985 requires a company would be to increase earnings per share, French Section II of the DS Smith Plc proposing to allot equity securities for cash 1999 Executive Share Option Scheme the and that the purchases were in the interests to offer them first to existing shareholders pro Scheme to eligible employees as defined rata to their existing shareholdings.
The Directors in the rules of the Scheme resident in France.
would also give careful consideration to was granted to the Directors at last years Accordingly, while no amendment is proposed Annual General Meeting and the Directors gearing levels of the Company and its general 102 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2006 continued financial position.
The purchase price would Accordingly, if the Directors exercise the to increase the ability of the Company to be paid out of distributable profits.
Resolution authority conferred by Resolution 13, the borrow money to the greater of an amount 13 specifies the maximum number of shares Company will have the option of holding equal to 2.5 times adjusted total equity total which may be purchased representing 10% those shares in treasury rather than cancelling equity being the new terminology used by them.
The total number of ordinary shares that IFRS and appearing on consolidated balance of the Companys issued share capital at 30 April 2006, the minimum and maximum are under option through the Companys share sheets of the Group prepared under IFRS option schemes at 28 June 2006 being the and 1,000,000,000 the Fixed Limit.
The prices at which they may be bought and latest practicable date prior to publication of increase in the multiple to 2.5 times, from when the authority will expire, reflecting this notice is 9,133,834 of which 8,058,314 the previous multiple of 2 times, will provide the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 are options over unissued ordinary shares.
headroom to compensate for any reductions and the Listing Rules of the FSA.
The proportion of issued ordinary share capital that may arise as a direct result of the The maximum price at which the shares may that the options over unissued ordinary shares introduction of IFRS and the consequent be purchased is 5% above the average of represented on this date was 2.06% and the change in definition of total equity.
The the middle market values of those shares proportion of issued ordinary share capital introduction of a lower limit to the amount for the five business days before the purchase that they will represent if the full authority of the Fixed Limit as a component of the is made.
to purchase shares existing and being sought Groups borrowing limit has been made to is used is 1.87%.
The authority will expire on reflect the fact that volatile and significant Purchases of shares under the proposed 5 December 2007 or at the conclusion of the accounting charges, which would reduce the authority are required by the FSA to be next Annual General Meeting whichever is Groups total equity, are possible under IFRS, made in compliance with The Model Code.
It is the present intention of the but either would not have been recorded Accordingly, the Company would not exercise Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
under previous UK GAAP or reversed when the authority at a time when the Directors computing the borrowing powers under the would be precluded from dealing in the Resolution 14: existing Articles of Association.
Specifically, purchases Adoption of new Articles of Association include, for example, the recognition of the would not be made within the 60 days This Resolution, which will be proposed as Groups pension arrangements on balance preceding the announcement of the interim a special resolution, adopts new Articles of sheet or the impairment of assets.
It would or final results.
This proposal should not be Association in place of the existing Articles be disadvantageous to the Group for these taken as an indication that the Company of Association.
The only change to the existing non-cash accounting charges to restrict the would purchase shares at any particular price Articles of Association is the insertion of the Groups power to borrow money above a or to imply any opinion on the part of the new article 71 Power to borrow money sensible financial amount.
The Fixed Limit Directors as to the market or other value and the deletion of the existing article 71. represents a 2.5 times multiple of adjusted of the Companys ordinary shares.
Companies listed on the London Stock total equity of the Group of 400,000,000, The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Exchange are required with effect from the which is over 100,000,000 less than Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 enable current financial year to prepare their accounts the adjusted total equity of the Group certain listed companies to hold shares in accordance with International Financial at 30 April 2005 and 30 April 2006.
The in treasury, as an alternative to cancelling Reporting Standards IFRS.
The existing change to the multiple and the inclusion them, following a purchase of own shares Articles of Association limit the power of of the Fixed Limit to the borrowing power by the Company in accordance with the the Company to borrow money to 2 times are in line with the approach taken by other Companies Act 1985.
Shares held in treasury the Groups adjusted capital and reserves.
FTSE 350 companies and are understood may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash In addition, the existing definition of adjusted to be acceptable to the ABI and major or used to satisfy share options and share capital and reserves in the Companys Articles institutional shareholders.
awards under the Companys share schemes.
of Association has reference to historical a new definition of cash and cash Once held in treasury, the Company is not items that are no longer recorded in the equivalents has replaced the old entitled to exercise any rights, including the Groups financial statements or which have definition of cash deposited.
right to attend and vote at meetings in respect been changed by the adoption of IFRS.
Further, no dividend or Accordingly, it is proposed that the borrowing A copy of the new Articles of Association of distribution of the Companys assets may power in the Companys existing Articles the Company is available for inspection at the be made to the Company in respect of those of Association be altered, the principal addresses specified in the Notice of Annual changes being: General Meeting of the Company.
shares whilst held in treasury.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 103 Important notes about the Annual General Meeting Date Wednesday 6 September 2006 Location Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, London EC2M 7QN Timing The Meeting will start promptly at 12 noon and shareholders wishing to attend are advised to be in the venue no later than 11.50 am.
The reception area will be open from 11.30 am, from which time refreshments will be served.
Travel information See map on the reverse of Admittance Card for the location of the Great Eastern Hotel, and the nearest underground and railway stations.
The venue is less than five minutes walk from Liverpool Street station.
There are no car parking facilities at the venue.
Admission Please bring the Admittance Card with you to the Meeting.
You may be asked to show the Card before being admitted to the venue.
Shareholders and proxy holders may also be required to provide proof of identity.
The registration process may take longer without these documents.
Shareholders are politely requested to bring no more than one guest to the Meeting except by prior arrangement with the Company Secretary.
Facilities The Great Eastern Hotel has wheelchair access.
If you are planning to come to the Meeting and are a wheelchair user, it would be helpful if you would telephone the venue in advance on 020 7618 5618.
Enquiries and questions Shareholders who intend to ask a question related to the business of the Meeting are asked to provide their name, address and question at the Registration desk.
Staff from Lloyds TSB Registrars will be on hand to provide advice and assistance.
