Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should contact an appropriate independent adviser immediately.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Aggreko plc you should forward this document to the purchaser or transferee, or the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Aggreko plc the Company will be held at the Hilton Hotel, 1 William Street, Glasgow on Wednesday 25 April 2007 at 11am.
Agenda Routine Business Resolution 1 To receive the reports of the Directors and Auditors, and to adopt the Companys accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Resolution 2 To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Resolution 3 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
Resolution 4 To re-elect Mr R C Soames.
Resolution 5 To re-elect Mr G P Walker.
Resolution 6 To re-elect Mr A C Salvesen.
Resolution 7 To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, and to authorise the Directors to x their remuneration.
Special Business To consider resolutions 8, 9, 10 and 11 as ordinary resolutions: Resolution 8 That the rules of the Aggreko UK Sharesave Plan 2007 the UK Plan as summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 16 March 2007 and produced in draft to this meeting and, for the purposes of identication, initialled by the Chairman, be approved and the Directors be authorised to make such modications to the UK Plan as they may consider appropriate to take account of the requirements of HM Revenue and Customs and best practice and for the implementation of the UK Plan and to adopt the UK Plan as so modied and to do all such other acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the UK Plan.
Resolution 9 That the rules of the Aggreko International Sharesave Plan 2007 the International Plan as summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 16 March 2007 and produced in draft to this meeting and, for the purposes of identication, initialled by the Chairman, be approved and the Directors be authorised to: a make such modications to the International Plan as they may consider appropriate to take account of best practice and for the implementation of the International Plan and to adopt the International Plan as so modied and to do all such other acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the International Plan: and b establish further plans based on the International Plan but modied to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual or overall participation in the International Plan.
114 114 Aggreko plc Annual Repor Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 t and Accounts 2006 Resolution 10 That the rules of the Aggreko U. S. Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2007 the US Plan as summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 16 March 2007 and produced in draft to this meeting and, for the purposes of identication, initialled by the Chairman, be approved and the Directors be authorised to make such modications to the US Plan as they may consider appropriate to take account of the requirements of the U. S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, best practice and for the implementation of the US Plan and to adopt the US Plan as so modied and to do all such other acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the US Plan.
Resolution 11 That the rules of the Aggreko Republic of Ireland Sharesave Plan 2007 the R of I Plan as summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 16 March 2007 and produced in draft to this meeting and, for the purposes of identication, initialled by the Chairman, be approved and the Directors be authorised to make such modications to the R of I Plan as they may consider appropriate to take account of the requirements of the Republic of Ireland Revenue Commissioners, best practice and for the implementation of the R of I Plan and to adopt the R of I Plan as so modied and to do all such other acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the R of I Plan.
To consider resolutions 12, 13 and 14 as special resolutions: Resolution 12 That the Articles of Association be amended by deleting the existing Articles of Association in their entirety and replacing them with the new Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled for the purpose of identication by the Chairman.
Resolution 13 That the Board of Directors of the Company the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act for cash i by selling equity securities held by the Company as treasury shares or ii by allotting new equity securities pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 10 passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 30 April 2003, as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment, PROVIDED THAT this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities for cash in connection with or pursuant to a rights issue or any other offer in favour of the holders of equity securities and other persons entitled to participate therein in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of equity securities then held by them or, as appropriate, the number of such securities which such other persons are for those purposes deemed to hold, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary, expedient or appropriate to deal with any fractional entitlements or legal or practical difficulties which may arise under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any territory or otherwise: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 2,695,000: and shall expire on the earlier of 24 July 2008 and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2008, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Aggreko plc Annual Repor Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 t and Accounts 2006 115 115 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 14 That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 20p each in the Company Ordinary Shares PROVIDED THAT: a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 26,950,000: b the maximum price which may be paid for any such Ordinary Share is an amount equal to the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out, and the minimum price which may be paid for any such share is 20p in each case exclusive of associated expenses : c the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 18 months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier: but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be completed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract: and d any Ordinary Shares so purchased shall be cancelled or, if the Directors so determine and subject to the provisions of any statutory instruments relating to treasury shares and any applicable regulations of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, held as treasury shares.
By order of the Board A Paul Allen Secretary 16 March 2007 116 116 Aggreko plc Annual Repor Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 t and Accounts 2006 Note 1 Any Shareholder entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint one or more proxies, who need not be Shareholders of the Company, to attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
To be effective, the enclosed form of proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a certied copy thereof, should be lodged at the ofce of the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Note 2 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for this meeting by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in Note 1 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
Note 3 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that only those Shareholders registered on the Register of Members of the Company as at the close of business on 23 April 2007 shall be entitled to vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after that time shall be disregarded for such purpose.
Note 4 The following documents will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company and at the ofces of Dickson Minto WS, 22-25 Finsbury Square, London EC2A 1DX during business hours from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and on that day at the Hilton Hotel, 1 William Street, Glasgow from 10.45 am until the conclusion of the meeting.
The register of interests of Directors and of their families where relevant in the share capital of the Company during the year.
Copies of all contracts of service under which Directors are employed by the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings and the letters of appointment of the Chairman and Non-executive Directors.
A copy of the draft rules of the Aggreko UK Sharesave Plan 2007, the Aggreko International Sharesave Plan 2007, the Aggreko U. S. Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2007 and the Aggreko Republic of Ireland Sharesave Plan 2007.
A copy of the proposed new Articles of Association of the Company containing the amendments described in the Appendix to this Notice.
Aggreko plc Annual Repor Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 t and Accounts 2006 117 117
