Appendix to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting Part 1 Summary of the principal terms of the proposed new rules for Sharesave Plans The following rules are proposed to be adopted pursuant to Resolutions 8, 9, 10 and 11.
Introduction The following is a summary of the principal terms of the Aggreko UK Sharesave Plan 2007 the UK Plan, the Aggreko International Sharesave Plan 2007 the International Plan, the Aggreko U. S. Employee Stock Purchase Plan 2007 the US Plan and the Aggreko Republic of Ireland Sharesave Plan 2007 the R of I Plan together known as the Plans.
The principal terms of the Plans are substantially the same unless expressly indicated to the contrary.
Operation The operation of the Plans will be supervised by the Board of Directors of the Company the Board.
The UK Plan and the R of I Plan will be approved by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC and the Republic of Ireland Revenue Commissioners respectively in order to provide tax-advantaged options to employees in the UK and the Republic of Ireland R of I.
Eligibility The UK Plan and the R of I Plan provide that employees and full-time Directors of the Company and any designated participating subsidiary who are resident taxpayers in the UK and the R of I respectively, are eligible to participate.
The International Plan and the US Plan require that employees and full-time Directors of the Company and any designated participating subsidiary are eligible to participate.
The Plans provide that the Board may require employees to have completed a qualifying period of employment a Qualifying Period before the grant of options.
In particular, under the UK Plan, the US Plan and the R of I Plan the Board may specify a Qualifying Period of up to 5 years, 2 years and 3 years respectively.
The Qualifying Period under the International Plan is determined by the Board at its discretion.
All eligible employees must be invited to participate.
The Board may allow other employees to participate.
Grant of options Options can only be granted to employees who enter into savings contracts under which monthly savings are normally made over a period of three or five years, or two years only under the US Plan.
Under the terms of the International Plan only the Board may also decide to grant cash-based awards of an equivalent value to share-based awards or to satisfy share-based awards in cash.
Options will normally be granted within 30 days or 42 days if applications are scaled back of the first day by reference to which the option price is set.
The number of Shares over which an option is granted will be such that the total option price payable for those Shares will correspond to the proceeds on maturity of the related savings contract.
No option may be granted under a plan more than 10 years after the date it is approved by shareholders.
Options are not transferable, except on death.
118 118 Aggreko plc Annual Repor Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 t and Accounts 2006 Individual participation Subject to the limits set out below, the Board will determine the maximum amount that an employee may contribute under a savings contract linked to options granted under the Plans.
Monthly savings by an employee under the UK Plan and all savings contracts linked to options granted under any HMRC approved sharesave scheme may not exceed the statutory maximum currently 250.
Similarly, monthly savings by an employee under the International Plan and all savings contracts linked to options granted under the International Plan and any other similar international sharesave scheme established by the Company may not exceed the overseas equivalent of the statutory maximum amount as may from time to time be permitted under the UK Plan.
Monthly savings by an employee under the US Plan and all savings contracts linked to options granted under the US Plan and any other similar plan established by the Company in accordance with the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986 the Code may not exceed US$540 or such other amount as may from time to time be determined by the Board and is permitted under the Code.
Monthly savings by an employee under the R of I Plan may not be more than the lower of the statutory maximum applicable to savings contracts linked to options granted under R of I Revenue approved sharesave plans currently 320 and the Euro equivalent of 250 or such other maximum amount as may from time to time be permitted under the UK Plan.
Option price The price per Share payable upon the exercise of an option under the UK Plan, the International Plan and the R of I Plan will not be less than the higher of: 80%.
or such other percentage as may be specified by statute of the average middle-market quotation of an ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange over three consecutive dealing days or such other day or days as agreed with HMRC following not earlier than 30 days before the option is granted or 42 days if applications are scaled back : and if the option relates only to new issue Shares, the nominal value of a Share.
The price payable upon the exercise of an option only under the US Plan will not be less than the higher of: 85%.
or such other percentage as may be specified by the Code of the middle-market quotation of an ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of grant of an option or such other dealing day or days as the Board may determine : and if the option relates only to new issue Shares, the nominal value of a Share.
Aggreko plc Annual Repor Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 t and Accounts 2006 119 119 Appendix to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting continued Exercise of options Options granted under the UK Plan, the International Plan and the R of I Plan will normally be exercisable for a six month period from the third, fifth or seventh anniversary of the commencement of the related savings contracts.
Options granted under the US Plan will normally be exercisable for a three month period from the second anniversary of the commencement of the related savings contract.
Earlier exercise of options under the Plans is permitted, however, in the following circumstances: following cessation of employment by reason of death, injury, disability or redundancy: retirement on reaching a specified age normally 60 : retirement at any other age at which the employee is bound to retire under his terms of employment, except in relation to options granted under the US Plan: the business or company that the employee works for ceasing to be part of the Companys group: when an employee reaches a specified age normally 60 : where employment ceases more than three years from grant for any reason other than dismissal for misconduct, except in relation to options granted under the US Plan: and in the event of a takeover, amalgamation, reconstruction or winding-up of the Company, except in the case of an internal corporate re-organisation when the Board may decide to exchange existing options for equivalent new options over shares in a new holding company, subject to the agreement of HMRC and the Revenue Commissioners in respect of awards granted under the UK Plan and the R of I Plan.
Except where stated above, options will lapse in the event that a participant ceases to be an employee or Director within the Companys group.
Shares will be allotted or transferred to participants within 30 days of exercise.
Overall plan limits The Plans may operate over new issue Shares, treasury Shares or Shares purchased in the market.
In any ten calendar year period, the Company may not issue or create the possibility of issuing more than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the Plans and any other employee share plan adopted by the Company.
Treasury Shares will count as new issue Shares for the purposes of these limits unless institutional investors decide that they need not count.
Variation of capital In the event of any variation in the Companys share capital, the Board may, subject to the prior approval of HMRC and the Revenue Commissioners under the UK Plan and the R of I Plan respectively, make such adjustment as it considers appropriate to the number of Shares under option and the price payable on the exercise of an option.
Rights attaching to Shares Any Shares allotted when an option is exercised under the Plans will rank equally with Shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
120 120 Aggreko plc Annual Repor Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 t and Accounts 2006 Alterations to the Plan The Board may, at any time, amend the provisions of the Plans in any respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits on the issue of Shares or the transfer of treasury Shares, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares to be acquired and the adjustment of options.
The requirement to obtain the prior approval of Shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the Plans, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Companys group.
Overseas plans The Shareholder resolution to approve the International Plan will allow the Board, without further Shareholder approval, to establish further plans for overseas territories, any such plan to be similar to the International Plan, but modied to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws, provided that any Shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual and overall participation in the International Plan.
Part 2 Summary of changes to the Articles of Association.
The following is a summary of changes to the Companys Articles of Association as proposed in Resolution 12.
Articles 8 and 13 have been amended to clarify the voting provisions in certain specic circumstances should any shares be held in Treasury by the Company.
Article 14 D addresses the point that, under the Uncerticated Securities Regulations, the denitive share register is the one kept by CRESTCo rather than the one maintained by the Companys Registrars.
Article 102 has been amended to increase the borrowing powers from two times to three times the Companys adjusted capital reserves.
As noted in the Directors Report, the Directors have no immediate intention to utilise these additional borrowing powers but are taking them in case additional investment opportunities materialise.
Article 145 has been amended to allow the Company to offer broader indemnities to Directors, as permitted by changes to the Companies Act.
The new Articles bring the provisions of the Articles into line with the new statutory provisions.
The revised Companies Act permits any company: i to indemnify its directors against liability incurred to any person other than to the Company and its associated companies in connection with negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to that person: and ii to provide its Directors with funds to cover the costs incurred or to be incurred in defending proceedings brought against them.
Since directors are increasingly being added as defendants in legal actions against companies, the Directors believe that the risk of directors being placed under unreasonable financial strain is increasing.
The Directors consider that the provisions of appropriate indemnities and the funding of Directors defence costs as they are incurred or to be incurred, as permitted by the new law, is fair and reasonable protection for the Directors against this risk, and is also important to ensure that the Company continues to attract and retain the highest calibre of Directors.
The directors therefore propose that the Articles of Association of the Company be amended to reect the new statutory provisions.
Notwithstanding the proposed amendments, individual Directors will still be liable to pay any damages awarded to the Company in an action against them by the Company and, if their defence is unsuccessful, to repay their defence costs to the extent funded by the Company.
Article 145 has also been amended to remove the power of the Company to grant indemnities to auditors.
This change is in line with market practice, rather than as a consequence of any change to the Companies Act itself.
Aggreko plc Annual Repor Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 t and Accounts 2006 121 121
