Principal Locations Registered Ofce, Advisers and Financial Calendar United Kingdom North America Registered Ofce UK Canada Electrocomponents plc www.
com International Management Centre 5000 Oxford Business Park South Global exports USA Oxford OX4 2BH www.
com United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1865 204000 Fax: 44 0 1865 207400 Continental Europe Asia Pacic Website: www.
com Financial Calendar Belgium Chile Announcement of results www.
cl The results of the Group are normally published at the following times.
Interim report for the six months to 30 September in early November.
Denmark China Preliminary announcement for the year to 31 March in late May early June.
com Report and Accounts for the year to 31 March in June.
France Hong Kong Dividend payments www.
com Current policy is to make dividend payments at the following times: Germany India Interim dividend in January.
com Final dividend in July.
Ireland Japan 2006 final dividend www.
co. jp Ex-dividend date 28 June Record date 30 June Italy Malaysia Annual General Meeting 14 July www.
com Dividend paid 28 July Netherlands New Zealand Advisers www.
com Auditors Norway Philippines KPMG Audit Plc www.
com PO Box 695, 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB Portugal Singapore www.
com Merchant Bankers Citigroup Spain South Africa Citigroup Centre www.
com 33 Canada Square Canary Wharf Sweden Taiwan London E14 5LB www.
com Registrars and transfer ofce Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Solicitors Norton Rose Kempson House Camomile Street London EC3A 7AN Stockbrokers UBS 1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP Shareholder Services Shareview A website, www.
co. uk, has been developed by Lloyds TSB Registrars, Produced by Black Sun Plc the Companys registrar, enabling shareholders to access shareholdings online.
Printed by Royle Corporate Print The website provides information useful to the management of investments together with an extensive schedule of frequently asked questions.
This Annual Report is printed on paper sourced from sustainable forests and In order to view shareholdings the shareholder reference number is required which is Elemental Chlorine Free.
can be found at the top of share certicates or on the last dividend tax voucher.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 61
