Group significant Accounting Policies Basis of consolidation Property, plant and equipment Electrocomponents plc the Company is a company domiciled in England.
The Group Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The cost of self constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and certain Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in a jointly controlled entity.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
All subsidiary accounts are made Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of up to 31 March and are included in the Group Accounts.
Further to the IAS Regulation ownership are classied as finance leases.
Each finance leased asset is stated at an EC 1606 2002 the Group Accounts have been prepared in accordance with amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU adopted lease payments at the inception of the lease less accumulated depreciation.
The Company Accounts continue to be prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices UK GAAP and details of the Company Accounts, notes No depreciation has been charged on freehold land.
Other assets have been to the accounts and significant accounting policies are set out on pages 51 to 58. depreciated to residual value, on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 1 June 2006.
Freehold buildings 2% Motor vehicles 25% Basis of preparation Mainframe computer equipment 20% The financial statements are presented in Sterling and rounded to 0.1m.
They are Network computer equipment 33% prepared on the historical cost basis except certain financial instruments detailed below.
Portable computers 50% Other ofce equipment 20% The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and Depreciation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses in the Income reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The residual value, if not insignicant, is reassessed annually.
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors Impairment believed to be reasonable, under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis The carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill are reviewed annually to determine of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such an indication exists, the readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The goodwill was tested for impairment Statement of compliance at 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, in accordance with IFRS 1.
The Group Accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use by the EU.
These are the Groups generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in first Group Accounts under IFRS and IFRS 1 has been applied as detailed below.
The recoverable amount is calculated as the present value of An explanation of how the transition to IFRS has affected the reported financial estimated future cash ows using a pre tax discount rate that reects current market position, financial performance and cash ows of the Group is provided in note 32. assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash ows, the recoverable amount Transactions eliminated on consolidation is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Intra-group balances and unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing Group Accounts.
Unrealised Inventories gains arising from transactions with the jointly controlled entity are eliminated to the Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
This cost is calculated on a weighted average basis.
Work in progress and goods for resale include extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains.
First time adoption of IFRS IFRS 1 Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less impairment losses.
This Standard has been issued to assist the first time adoption of IFRS.
The Standard allows alternative treatments for certain areas of the financial statements during the Net debt initial transition period.
The treatments have been detailed in the relevant sections.
Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents less borrowings.
Cash and cash The most significant changes for the Group relate to share based payments IFRS 2, equivalents comprises cash in hand and held with qualifying financial institutions in pension costs IAS 19 and financial instruments IAS 32 and IAS 39. current accounts or overnight deposits net of overdrafts with qualifying financial institutions.
Liquid resources include government securities, investment in money Goodwill and other intangibles market funds and term deposits with qualifying financial institutions and are classed Goodwill arising on all acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 has been written off against as investments under current assets.
Borrowings represent term loans from qualifying reserves.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1 April 1998 has been capitalised and, financial institutions together with capital instruments classied as liabilities.
under UK GAAP, was amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, with a maximum of 20 years.
Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the Income Statement when the The Group has made the elective exemption under IFRS 1 that allows goodwill in significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
Revenue respect of acquisitions made prior to 1 April 2004 to remain as stated under UK GAAP.
represents the sale of goods and services and is stated net of sales taxes.
Freight The balance of goodwill as at 1 April 2004 is deemed to be the cost going forward.
recharged to customers is included within revenue.
IFRS 3 requires that, when a subsidiary entity is acquired and consolidated into the Operating expense classication Group Accounts, intangible assets such as customer lists or trademarks are valued Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods delivered to customers.
and then recognised separately on the balance sheet.
These are then amortised over their useful economic lives.
Goodwill remains the difference between the fair value of Distribution and marketing expenses include all operating company expenses, the purchase price and the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets but is likely including freight costs and movements in inventory provisions, together with the to be smaller under IFRS.
Supply Chain, Product Management, Media Publishing, Facilities, Information Systems and e-Commerce process expenses.
Goodwill is not amortised under IFRS.
Instead the carrying value is reviewed annually for impairment and only written down if impaired.
Administration expenses comprise Finance, Legal and Human Resources process expenses, together with the expenses of the Group Board.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
The cost of Net nancing costs comprise interest payable in borrowings calculated using the acquired intangible assets are their purchase cost together with any incidental costs effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign exchange of acquisition.
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost of the asset on a gains and losses and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in straight-line basis at the following annual rates: the Income Statement.
Trademarks 5% Interest income is recognised in the Income Statement as it accrues, using the Computer software costs 12.5-50% effective interest method.
The interest expenses component of finance lease payments Amortisation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses in the income is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method.
Expenditure Catalogue costs on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as Prior to the issue of a catalogue, all related costs incurred are accrued and carried as a an expense as incurred.
On the issue of a catalogue, these costs are written off as they are Investments in jointly controlled entities distributed to customers.
Major investments in new catalogue production systems are The Group Accounts include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses written off over the period during which the benets of those investments are in one jointly controlled entity on an equity accounted basis.
anticipated, such period not to exceed three years.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 29 Group significant Accounting Policies continued Operating leases The elective exemption in IFRS 1 means that any translation differences prior to the date Operating lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over of transition 1 April 2004 do not need to be analysed retrospectively and so the deemed the course of the lease period.
The benets of rent free periods and similar incentives are cumulative translation differences at this date can set to nil.
Thus, any cumulative credited to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the full lease term.
translation differences arising prior to the date of transition are excluded from any future profit loss on disposal of any entities.
The Group adopted this exemption.
Government grants Government grants related to expenditure on property, plant and equipment are Net investment in foreign operations credited to the Income Statement at the same rate as the depreciation on the asset to Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign which the grants relate.
The unamortised balance of capital grants is included within operations and of related hedges are taken to translation reserve.
They are released trade and other payables.
into the Income Statement upon disposal.
Employee benets Foreign currency transactions Pension costs Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the In the United Kingdom the Group operates a pension scheme providing benets based date of the transaction or, if hedged forward, at the rate of exchange under the related on final pensionable pay for eligible employees who joined on or before 1 April 2004. forward currency contract if the hedge is effective.
Monetary assets and liabilities The scheme is administered by a corporate trustee and the funds are independent of denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling the Groups nances.
In addition there are dened benefit pension schemes in at the balance sheet date and the gains and losses on translation are included in the Germany and Ireland.
For UK employees who joined after 1 April 2004 the Group provides a dened Financial instruments contribution pension scheme.
There are also dened contribution schemes in Australia Derivative financial instruments and North America and government schemes in France, Italy, Denmark and North Asia.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign Obligations for contributions to dened contribution schemes are recognised as an exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational and nancing activities.
It expense in the Income Statement as incurred.
principally employs forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge against changes in exchange rates over the catalogue periods of the majority of its operating companies.
Contributions to the dened benefit schemes charged to the Income Statement are In addition there is also a small number of interest rate swaps which swap certain comprised: current service cost, past service cost, expected return on scheme assets xed-rate loans into oating-rate.
and the interest cost on the expected amount of unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities shown within Distribution and Marketing expenses.
The Group has elected to In accordance with its treasury policies, the Group does not hold or issue derivative adopt the amendment to IAS 19 revised, which allows actuarial gains and losses to be financial instruments for trading purposes.
recorded in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense immediately.
The Group All of the Groups derivatives have no initial cost.
In subsequent periods they are stated has adopted the exemption in IFRS 1 allowing all actuarial gains and losses arising in the Balance Sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial before 1 April 2004 to be shown in the opening Balance Sheet at 1 April 2004. instruments that do not qualify for cash ow or net investment hedge accounting are Share based payment transactions recognised in the Income Statement as they arise.
Accounting for derivatives in highly The Group operates several share based payment schemes, the largest of which are effective designated hedging relationships is dealt with below.
the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE, the Long Term Incentive Option Plan The fair value of the interest rate swaps is the market value of the swap at the balance LTIOP and the Executive Incentive Plan EIP.
sheet date, taking into account current interest rates.
The fair value of the forward The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a foreign exchange contracts is the difference between their discounted contractual corresponding increase in equity and spread over the period during which employees forward price and their current spot price.
become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair values are calculated using Comparative period an appropriate option pricing model.
The Income Statement charge is then adjusted to reect expected and actual levels of vesting based on non market performance The Group has taken advantage of the exemption under IAS 39 from restating its comparative period gures.
The comparative period therefore does not include the related criteria.
The Groups SAYE scheme has been valued using a Black-Scholes model and the Income Statement charge has been adjusted for forfeitures caused fair value of hedges within the balance sheet amounts.
by employees failing to maintain either their employment or the required savings.
Cash ow hedging The Groups LTIOP scheme includes performance criteria based on the Groups total Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in shareholder return performance relative to a group of 13 comparable companies.
The cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, fair value of the LTIOP schemes has been calculated using a Monte Carlo model and the highly effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is the Income Statement charge has been adjusted for options forfeited by employees recognised directly in equity.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in leaving the Group.
The EIP includes performance criteria based on the Groups profit the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability the associated cumulative gain or in the year to March 2009 and has been valued using a Black-Scholes model.
loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount The Group Income Statement includes the administration expenses of the share based of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently payment schemes and the Group Balance Sheet includes the assets and liabilities of results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses the schemes.
Shares in the Company, held by the trust established to administer the that were recognised directly in equity are reclassied into profit or loss in the same schemes, are shown within reserves.
period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
For cash ow hedges The Group has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby IFRS 2, Share-Based Payment, other than those covered by the preceding two policy statements, the associated is applied only to awards made after 7 November 2002. cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Income Tax Statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax in the Income Statement.
rates enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity of previous years.
revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain provided is calculated using tax rates substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Foreign currency Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities Financial statements of foreign operations Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge economically the foreign Overseas companies profits, losses and cash ows are translated at average exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is exchange rates for the year being a good approximation of the actual rates, and assets applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the Income and liabilities at rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
This leads to exchange gains Statement.
and losses being generated on consolidation.
IFRS requires translation differences on Hedge of net investment in foreign operation the revaluation of the assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries to be taken The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a directly to equity.
On the disposal of any overseas entity any exchange differences previously taken to equity will have to be transferred to the Income Statement and foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in taken to the Group profit loss on disposal of that entity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 30
