Notice of Annual General Meeting Notes If you have sold or transferred all of your ordinary shares, please send the Report and Accounts containing this document, together with the accompanying form of proxy, as i A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee of those shares or to the stockbroker, to attend and on a poll vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member from attending or voting at the meeting if he she subsequently wishes to do so.
to the purchaser or transferee.
ii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Electrocomponents plc specified that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at will be held at the Companys premises, The International Management Centre, 6.00 pm on 12 July 2006 will be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number 5000 Oxford Business Park South, Oxford OX4 2BH on Friday 14 July 2006 at 12.30 pm.
of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 6.00 pm on 12 July 2006 will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote The business of the meeting will be: at the Meeting.
Ordinary Business iii A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be effective a proxy form and the authority if any under which it Report and accounts is signed or a notarially certied copy of such authority must be deposited at the ofces of the 1 To receive the accounts and the reports of the Directors and the Auditors for Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL by the year ended 31 March 2006. not later than 12:30 pm on Wednesday 12 July 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report iv CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 July 2006 at 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2006.
12.30 pm and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
Declaration of Dividend CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have 3 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Retiring Directors and New Directors In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the 4 To re-elect Mr T G Barker as a Director.
appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in 5 To re-elect Mr N J Temple as a Director.
accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes 6 To elect Mr S Boddie as a Director.
the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 Auditors appointment and remuneration by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this 7 To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and to authorise the purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied Directors to agree their remuneration.
to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of Special Business instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as other means.
a Special Resolution: CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note Renewal of Directors authority for the purchase by the Company of its own shares that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
8 THAT the Company is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member 1985 of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company ordinary shares is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be provided that: necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting purchased is 43,527, 000: service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
b the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in 10p per ordinary share: Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001. c the maximum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is an amount v The Register of Directors Interests and copies of all Contracts of Service of the Directors together equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an with terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive directors are available for inspection ordinary share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List during business hours at the registered ofce of the Company and will be available for inspection for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: at the place of the Meeting from half an hour before the time of the Meeting until the conclusion of the Meeting.
d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next vi Biographical details of the Directors who are proposed for re-election or election at the Annual General Annual General Meeting of the Company, unless such authority is renewed Meeting are set out on pages 14 and 15. prior to such a time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of such contract.
By Order of the Board Carmelina Carfora Company Secretary 1 June 2006 Registered Ofce: International Management Centre, 5000 Oxford Business Park South, Oxford, OX4 2BH Registered Number: 647788 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 60
