Company significant Accounting Policies Basis of preparation Long Term Incentive Plan and Long Term Incentive Share Option Plan The company accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, The Company operates several share based payment schemes, the largest of which modied to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as are the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE, the Long Term Incentive Option required by FRS 26: Financial instruments: measurement, and in accordance with Plan LTIOP and the Executive Incentive Plan EIP.
UK company law and UK accounting standards.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a Changes in accounting policies corresponding increase in equity and spread over the period during which employees The accounts reect the adoption, during the year, of the following standard: become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair values are calculated using an appropriate option pricing model.
The profit and loss account charge is then adjusted FRS 17: retirement benets.
FRS 17 requires any surplus or deficit on the Companys to reect expected and actual levels of vesting based on non market performance dened benefit pension scheme to be included in the balance sheet and changes the related criteria.
method of determining the profit and loss account charge.
Details of the accounting policy adopted are given below.
The impact on the Company profit and net assets is All profit and loss account charges relating to options held by members of other Group given in note 18 to the Company Accounts.
companies are shown in the profit and loss account of the appropriate Group company.
In order to align UK accounting standards with International Financial Reporting Standards, the following standards came into effect during the year.
The accounts The Company has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby FRS 20, Share-Based reect the adoption, during the year, of these standards: Payment, is applied only to awards made after 7 November 2002.
Under FRS 20, the Company is required to show Depreciation share-based payments in the profit and loss account.
Details of the accounting No depreciation has been charged on freehold land.
Other assets have been policy adopted are given below.
The impact on the Company profit and net assets depreciated to residual value, on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: is given in note 18 to the Company Accounts.
Freehold buildings 2% FRS 21: Events after the balance sheet date.
The main impact of FRS 21 is to change Warehouse systems 10-20% the recognition of dividends declared after the balance sheet date of the year under Motor vehicles 25% review.
Such dividends are no longer accrued in the balance sheet.
The impact on Mainframe computer equipment 20% the Company profit and net assets is given in note 18 to the Company Accounts.
Network computer equipment 33% Portable computers 50% FRS 23: The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates.
FRS 23 gives additional Computer software costs 12.5-50% guidance on the translation method of foreign currency transactions and on Other ofce equipment 20% determining the functional and presentational currency of the company.
The adoption of this standard had no impact on the Companys profit or net assets.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences FRS 25: Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation.
This standard sets between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which out the requirements for the presentation of, and disclosures relating to, financial have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required instruments.
The adoption of this standard had no impact on the Companys profit by FRS 19. or net assets.
The disclosures included within these Company accounts ensure compliance with the standard.
Leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and Loss Account on a straight-line FRS 26: Financial instruments: measurement.
FRS 26 sets out the requirements for basis over the course of the lease period.
The benets of rent free periods and similar measurement, recognition and derecognition of financial instruments.
The adoption incentives are credited to the profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over of this standard had no impact on the Companys profit or net assets.
the period up to the date on which the lease rentals are adjusted to the prevailing Investments in subsidiary undertakings market rate.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings including long term loans are included in Own shares held the Balance Sheet of the Company at the lower of cost and the expected recoverable The Companys own shares held by the Electrocomponents Employee Trust and the amount.
Any impairment is recognised in the profit and Loss Account.
QUEST are deducted from shareholders funds until they vest unconditionally with Translation of foreign currencies employees as required by UITF 38: Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction or, if hedged forward, at the rate of exchange under the related forward currency contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains and losses on translation are included in the profit and Loss Account.
Financial instruments Gains and losses on hedging instruments are not recognised in the performance statements until the exchange movement on the item being hedged is recognised.
Pension costs In the United Kingdom the Group operates a pension scheme providing benets based on final pensionable pay for eligible employees who joined on or before 1 April 2004.
The scheme is administered by a corporate trustee and the funds are independent of the Groups nances.
For employees who joined after 1 April 2004 the Group provides a dened contribution pension scheme.
The deficit on the UK scheme is included within the balance sheet of RS Components Ltd, a subsidiary of Electrocomponents plc, as it is this company which employs the majority of the scheme members.
As allowed by FRS 17, the deficit has not been allocated between Electrocomponents plc and RS Components Ltd as it is not possible to do so on a consistent and reasonable basis.
The company adopted FRS 17: Retirement benets during the year.
Previously the effects of FRS 17 had been disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 52
