Consolidated accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Emap plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Emap plc for the Basis of audit opinion year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise the Group income statement, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Group balance sheet, the Group cash ow statement, the Group on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to These Group financial statements have been prepared under the the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also accounting policies set out therein.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Emap plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 and on the information in the the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards Opinion on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been In our opinion: prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into affairs as at 31 March 2006 and of its profit and cash ows for the year whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior then ended: and consent in writing.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the Group financial statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the Corporate governance statement reects 1 Embankment Place the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC London Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the WC2N 6RH Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not 23 May 2006 required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Notes: Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
a The maintenance and integrity of the Emap plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have The other information comprises only the Directors report, the Chairmans occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented statement, the Operating and financial review and the Corporate governance on the website.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in any other information.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 47
