Consolidated accounts Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation General information The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, These accounts have been prepared in accordance with International except for derivative financial instruments which have been measured at Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International fair value.
Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committees IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the The following summarises the principal accounting policies adopted European Union EU, applicable at 31 March 2006 and those parts of by the Directors.
These policies have been applied consistently to both the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
years presented, with the exception of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: This is the Groups first set of accounts prepared in accordance with Recognition and Measurement which were applied with effect from IFRS, and the comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2005 1 April 2005, the impact of which is explained in Note 39.
The exemptions has been restated from the Groups previously published accounts for taken under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS are disclosed in Note 39.
2005 prepared under UK GAAP, to comply with IFRS.
The Groups date of transition to IFRS was 1 April 2004 and reconciliations between a Basis of consolidation IFRS and UK GAAP previously reported equity at 1 April 2004 The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and its and 31 March 2005, and profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2006.
A subsidiary are presented in Note 39 below.
is an entity including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally The Group has adopted the amended versions of IAS 19 Employee accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights.
Benets and IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives within The results of each subsidiary are included from the date that control these accounts, which were not mandatory for the financial years transferred to the Group and are adjusted to align accounting policies presented within these accounts.
The IASB has published certain with the Groups accounting policies.
Subsidiaries are no longer other new standards and amendments to existing standards which consolidated from the date that control ceases.
All intercompany balances are not effective until the Groups next financial statements, except and transactions are eliminated in full.
as noted below and which have not been adopted early by the Group.
These include: Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is the cash paid together with the fair value of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and its related amendment to other assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or IAS 1.
IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures of qualitative and quantitative assumed, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The acquired information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their including specified minimum disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk fair values at the date of acquisition, irrespective of the extent of any minority and market risk effective for 2008 accounts.
Independent expert valuers are used to ascertain the fair values of acquired intangible assets if material.
The excess of the cost of acquisition IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
over the fair value of net assets assumed is recorded as goodwill.
IFRIC 4 requires the determination whether an arrangement is or contains a lease to be based on the substance of the arrangement.
Minority interests represents the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group.
IFRIC 8 clarifies the extent to which equity settled transactions less than fair value fall within the scope b Investments in associates and joint ventures of IFRS 2.
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant inuence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding The adoption of these standards is not expected to have a material of between 20% to 50% of the voting rights.
A joint venture is an entity impact on the Groups results.
over which the Group exercises joint control, usually through a contractual arrangement.
The Groups investments in associates and joint ventures The following new standards are not considered to be relevant to the are recognised using the equity method of accounting.
Groups current activities and operations: Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recognised IAS 39 amendment, Cash ow hedge accounting of forecast at cost and thereafter are carried in the balance sheet at cost less any intra-group transactions: impairment in value and include the carrying value of related goodwill and the Groups share of changes in the associate or joint ventures net IAS 39 amendment and IFRS 4 amendment, Financial Guarantee assets since acquisition.
The income statement reects the Groups share Contracts and Credit Insurance: of an associate or joint ventures profit after tax.
Where the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture exceeds its investment, the IAS 39 amendment, The Fair Value Option: Group ceases to recognise further losses unless an obligation exists for the Group to fund the losses.
Where a change in net assets has been IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources and its recognised directly in the associate or joint ventures equity, the Group related amendment to IFRS 1: recognises its share of those changes in the statement of changes in equity when applicable.
IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds: Adjustments are made to align the accounting policies of the associate or joint venture with the Group and to eliminate the Groups share of IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specic Market unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment: and associates and joint ventures.
IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinationary Economies.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 52 1 Accounting policies continued is written down to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are c Intangible xed assets recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment either annually or more frequently An item of property, plant and equipment is written off either on disposal if events or changes in circumstances indicate a possible decline in the or when there is no expected future economic benefit from its continued carrying value.
Any gain or loss on fide-recognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying value Impairment is determined by comparing the recoverable amount of of the asset is included in the income statement in the year the item the cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units which are is fide-recognised.
expected to benefit from the acquisition in which the goodwill arose, to the carrying value of the goodwill.
The recoverable amount is the greater e Inventories of an assets value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
is calculated by discounting the future cash ows expected to be derived Cost represents purchase cost, including attributable overheads, and from the asset or group of assets in a cash-generating unit at the Groups is determined using a first-in, first-out basis.
Net realisable value is the cost of capital, adjusted for risk in a specic market if relevant.
Where estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, the goodwill is costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.
considered impaired and is written down through the income statement to its recoverable amount.
f Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount, Intangible assets acquired as part of a business acquisition are less provision for impairment.
A provision is made and charged to the capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Purchased intangible income statement when there is objective evidence that the Group will assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost.
After initial recognition, not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms.
all intangible xed assets are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible xed g Cash and cash equivalents assets which have been assigned a nite life are amortised and tested Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, short-term deposits and other for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three carrying value may have declined.
This is done on a similar basis to the months or less.
testing of goodwill, either for individual assets or at the level of a cashgenerating unit.
Useful lives are examined every year and adjustments For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and cash are made, where applicable, on a prospective basis.
equivalents are as dened above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Amortisation is charged on assets with nite lives on a systematic basis h Borrowings over the assets useful life, which range from five to 20 years.
Accounting policy to 31 March 2005 All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the Where an intangible asset has been assigned an indefinite useful life, consideration received, net of transaction costs, and are subsequently it is not amortised and is reviewed for impairment either annually or more measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the amount initially frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a possible recognised and the redemption value is recognised in the income decline in the carrying value.
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
d Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Accounting policy from 1 April 2005 depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated Following the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 April 2005, where in such a way as to write off the cost of an asset, less its residual value, loans and borrowings are designated in an effective hedge relationship on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows: which qualies for hedge accounting treatment, the hedged portion of the loan is revalued to fair value with all gains and losses taken to the freehold buildings maximum period 50 years: income statement to offset against the gains and losses on the hedging instrument.
Hedge accounting is adopted where derivatives such as leasehold property over the period of the lease to a maximum xed to oating interest rate swaps are held as fair value hedges against of 50 years: xed interest rate borrowings.
For hedge accounting treatment to apply, the hedge must be fully documented and be highly effective.
ofce equipment and vehicles one to 15 years: All other loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of freehold land is not depreciated.
the consideration received, net of transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the amount initially Estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance recognised and the redemption value is recognised in the income sheet date.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate these values may not be recoverable.
If there is an indication that impairment does exist the carrying values are compared to the estimated recoverable amounts of the assets concerned.
The recoverable amount is the greater of an assets value in use and its fair value less the cost of selling it.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the future cash ows expected to be derived from the asset.
Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 53 Consolidated accounts Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006 continued 1 Accounting policies continued l Leases i Provisions Finance leases, where the Group bears substantially all the risks and Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or benets of owning the leased item, are capitalised at the start of the constructive obligation as a result of a past event, when it is probable lease term at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned when a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
between the finance charges and the lease liability in order to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
The Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, finance charge is included within finance costs in the income statement.
the reimbursement is recognised only when it is virtually certain.
Provision is made for lease rentals payable on vacant properties only to the extent Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the lease term or the of any shortfall between rent receivable and rent payable for the period estimated useful life of the asset, whichever is shorter.
that the Directors expect the property to remain unoccupied by the Group.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income Leases, where most of the risks and benets of owning the asset remain statement net of any reimbursement.
with the lessor, are classied as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a If the time value of money has a material effect on quantifying the straight-line basis over the lease term.
The benefit of any lease incentives provision, the provision is determined by discounting the expected future is recognised as a reduction in rental expense on a straight line basis cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of over the life of the lease.
the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to m Revenue the passage of time is recognised as a finance charge.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to a third party, or for services provided, j Dividends at the point when it is probable that the economic benets will ow Dividends are recognised as an expense in the income statement to the Group and when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration and represents Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are paid.
amounts receivable for services and goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales taxes.
Revenue k Foreign currency translation is only recognised for barter transactions which are considered dissimilar The functional and presentation currency of Emap plc and its UK in nature to each other, and a corresponding amount is recognised in subsidiaries is Sterling.
The functional currency of subsidiaries, operating costs.
associates and joint ventures is the currency of the primary economic environment in which they operate.
The following recognition criteria also apply in specic cases: Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional Magazine newsstand circulation and advertising revenue are recognised currency rate applicable at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets according to the on-sale date of the publication.
A provision is deducted and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at from circulation revenue for expected returns and adjusted for actual the functional currency rate of exchange in force at the balance sheet returns when this is known.
Pre-paid subscription revenues are shown date.
All differences are taken to the income statement except for as deferred income and released to the income statement over the life those on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against of the subscription.
an investment in a foreign entity.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the investment, at which time they are recognised Radio and TV advertising revenue is recognised on the date of broadcast.
Tax charges and credits attributable to Sponsorship revenue is recognised evenly over the life of the contract.
exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in Exhibition income is recognised when the event has taken place.
a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate in force Information product subscription revenues are recognised in the income at the date of initial transaction.
statement evenly over the life of the subscription.
All advertising revenue and pre-sold circulation revenue for directories is recognised on the date As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of overseas of publication.
subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange applicable at the balance sheet date and their income statements are Income from licensing brands to third party publishers is recognised on translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
The exchange an accruals basis and is included in revenue.
differences arising from the retranslation of foreign operations are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign Where the Group acts as a distributor for third parties only the commission operation, the cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that is recognised as revenue unless the Group acts as a principal and has operation is recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or direct dealings with the customer, in which case the gross amount received loss on sale.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 54 1 Accounting policies continued p Income tax n Pension and other post-employment benets Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current tax and The Group operates both dened contribution and dened benefit deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement, except pension schemes.
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity in which case it is recognised in equity.
For dened benefit schemes within the balance sheet, the Group recognises the net of the present value of the dened benefit obligation Current tax is tax payable based on taxable profits for the period, using at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance projected unit cost method, classied either as a non-current liability sheet date along with any adjustment relating to tax payable in previous if a scheme is in a net deficit position, or a non-current asset if a scheme years.
Taxable profit differs from net profit in the income statement in is in a net asset position.
The value of a schemes assets and liabilities that income or expense items that are taxable or deductible in other are updated annually and subject to a formal triennial valuation by an years are excluded as are items that are never taxable or deductible.
independent actuary by discounting the liabilities at an interest rate Current tax assets relate to payments on account not offset against equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond current tax liabilities.
of equivalent currency and term, and measuring the assets at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Using the liability method, deferred tax is provided on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets The service cost of a scheme, the returns on a schemes assets and and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
interest on a schemes liabilities are taken to the income statement and included in staff costs.
Actuarial gains and losses, along with related Deferred tax liabilities are not provided for the following taxation, are recognised in equity via the statement of recognised income temporary differences: and expense.
goodwill that is not deductible for tax purposes: and For the dened contribution scheme, contributions payable are charged to the income statement and included in staff costs as an operating the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that expense as incurred.
is not a business combination and which affect neither accounting nor taxable profit.
o Share-based payments The Group operates several employee option and performance Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that share schemes.
sufficient future taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred The fair value of options or shares granted under these schemes is income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
recognised in the income statement as an employee expense over the period in which any performance conditions are fullled, ending on the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award, expected to apply to the year in which the asset is realised or the liability based on managements best estimate of the number of awards that will is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively ultimately vest.
A corresponding amount is credited to equity.
No expense enacted at the balance sheet date.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for those are not offset when they relate to different countries.
where the vesting depends on a market condition.
Whether or not the market condition is satisfied, these are treated as vesting as long as all q Derivatives and other financial instruments other performance conditions are satisfied.
The Group uses various derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks, including currency The fair value of the awards are measured at the date at which they swaps, foreign exchange swaps, forward foreign currency contracts, are granted using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model, except in the currency options and interest rate swaps.
case of the Groups senior management profit Related Pay Plan PRP and the Groups Executive Share Option Plan ESOP scheme, which For the period to 31 March 2005, the Group utilised the exemption are valued using a Monte-Carlo simulation option-pricing model.
available in IFRS 1 and continued to apply its UK GAAP accounting policy to its derivative and other financial instruments.
The Group adopted The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IAS 39 on 1 April 2005.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on or before 31 December 2004.
Shares in the Company are held in trust to satisfy the exercise of awards under certain of the Groups share option and performance share schemes.
The trust is consolidated within the Group accounts.
These shares are presented in the Consolidated balance sheet as a deduction from equity at the market value on the date of issue or acquisition.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 55 Consolidated accounts Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006 continued 1 Accounting policies continued Movements in their fair value are recognised in the consolidated q Derivatives and other financial instruments continued income statement immediately.
Accounting policy to 31 March 2005 The Group considers its derivative financial instruments to be hedges The Groups policies on treasury risk management are set out on and matches them with the relevant hedged items.
Cash ows relating pages 23 and 24 of the Operating & financial review.
to these derivative financial transactions are netted against hedged transactions in the cash ow statement within Net cash from operating Available for sale financial assets activities or Cash ows from nancing activities as appropriate.
Available for sale financial assets include investments in other entities which do not classify for treatment as a subsidiary, associate or joint Currency swaps and foreign exchange swaps venture, over which the Group has no ability to exercise inuence, and Swaps are revalued at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet money-market deposits with no xed maturity date.
Realised and unrealised exchange gains and losses on swaps recognised at fair value, and measured at fair value thereafter, with that hedge investments in overseas operations are recognised through changes in fair value being taken to equity until the asset is sold, reserves.
Realised and unrealised exchange gains and losses on other at which time any gains or losses previously recognised in equity are swaps are recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
The premium included in any profit or loss on sale.
Where an active market for or discount on foreign exchange swaps and interest payments and receipts the asset does not exist, after initial recognition at fair value, it is on currency swaps are recognised as part of the net interest payable over measured at cost.
They are included in non-current assets unless the the period of the contract.
Group intends to dispose of the asset within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Forward foreign exchange contracts The Sterling equivalent of forward foreign exchange contracts used to r Discontinued operations and assets held for sale hedge foreign currency trade debtors and creditors is recorded at the Where the Group expects to recover the carrying amount of a group contracted amount.
Realised and unrealised exchange gains and losses of assets through a sale transaction rather than through continuing on these contracts are recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
use, and a sale is considered to be highly probable at the balance sheet date, the assets are classied as held for sale and measured at lower Interest rate swaps of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
If the group of assets constitutes Interest payments and receipts are accrued and included in net interest a separate major line of business it is classied as a discontinued payable.
They are not revalued to fair value or shown on the Consolidated operation.
No depreciation or amortisation is charged in respect of balance sheet at the year end.
non-current assets classied as held for sale.
Upfront arrangement fees Critical accounting assumptions and judgements Upfront arrangement fees on debt are amortised over the expected term The preparation of accounts under IFRS requires the use of certain of the debt.
critical accounting assumptions and requires management to exercise its judgement and to make estimates in the process of applying the Accounting policy from 1 April 2005 Groups accounting policies.
The areas requiring a higher degree of Derivatives, including currency options and swaps, forward exchange judgement or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant contracts and swaps, and interest rate swaps and caps are initially to the Consolidated accounts are discussed below.
recognised at fair value at the date of adoption of IAS 39, or if later, on the date a derivative is entered into.
Derivatives are subsequently remeasured i Intangible xed assets at their fair value and classied as current or non-current within the The Group uses forecast cash ow information and estimates of future Consolidated balance sheet based on maturity date.
The fair value is growth to assess whether goodwill and other intangible xed assets are determined by using market data and the use of established estimation impaired, and to determine the useful economic lives of its intangible techniques such as discounted cashow and option valuation models.
If the results of operations in a future period are adverse to the estimates used for impairment testing, an impairment may be triggered The Group designates certain of its derivative instruments as hedges at that point, or a reduction in useful economic life may be required.
of the fair value of its bonds fair value hedges or hedges of investments in foreign operations investment hedges.
Changes in the fair value ii Taxation of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are The Group is primarily subject to Corporation tax in the UK and France, recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the and judgement and estimates of future profitability are required to fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the determine the Groups deferred tax position.
If the final tax outcome hedged risk.
is different to that assumed, resulting changes will be reected in the income statement, unless the tax relates to an item charged to equity in The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are which case the changes in tax estimates will also be reected in equity.
designated and qualify as investment hedges are recognised in equity.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedging relationship must be expected iii Retirement benefit obligations to be effective and be designated and documented at its inception.
Gains Assumptions, including future rates of ination, salary growth, yields, and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement returns on investments and mortality rates are used by the Groups when the corresponding foreign operation is disposed of.
Gains or losses actuaries to determine the Groups retirement benefit obligations.
relating to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in finance Changes in these assumptions over time and differences to the actual income or finance costs in the Consolidated income statement.
outcome will be reected in the Groups statement of recognised income and expense.
Derivatives which are not designated as hedging instruments or do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are measured at fair value.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 56
