Parent company accounts Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006 1 Accounting policies Other transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling Accounting convention at the date of the transaction, or at the contracted rate where a related The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as hedging contract exists.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates ruling at historical cost convention except for derivative financial instruments which 31 March.
All such exchange differences are taken to the profit and have been measured at fair value and in accordance with United Kingdom loss account.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
d Derivatives and other financial instruments Accounting policy to 31 March 2005 During the year, the Company adopted FRS 17 Retirement Benets, The Company uses various derivative financial instruments to manage its FRS 20 Share-based Payment, FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks, including currency date, FRS 23 The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates, FRS 25 swaps, foreign exchange swaps, forward foreign currency contracts, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and presentation, and FRS 26 currency options, interest rate swaps and interest rate caps.
The Company Financial Instruments: Measurement.
considers its derivative financial instruments to be hedges and matches them with the relevant hedged items.
FRS 17 requires the Company to recognise the net asset or net deficit in its defined benefit pension scheme in its balance sheet, and to reflect Currency swaps and foreign exchange swaps changes in its value through the profit and loss account and changes Swaps are revalued at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet in actuarial assumptions through equity.
The impact of adopting FRS 17 date.
Realised and unrealised exchange gains and losses on swaps was a charge of 21m to retained earnings at 1 April 2004. that hedge investments in overseas operations are recognised through reserves.
Realised and unrealised exchange gains and losses on other FRS 20 requires the Company to charge the fair value of employee share swaps are recognised in the profit and loss account.
options and share awards through the profit and loss account over the period the employee becomes entitled to the award.
The Company has The premium or discount on foreign exchange swaps and interest taken advantage of the transitional arrangements available in FRS 20 and payments and receipts on currency swaps are recognised as part of only applied the requirements to options granted after 7 November 2002, the net interest payable over the period of the contract.
not yet vested by 1 January 2005.
Forward foreign exchange contracts FRS 21 means that proposed dividends that are not declared before The Sterling equivalent of forward foreign exchange contracts used to the balance sheet date cannot be accrued as a liability at the year end.
hedge foreign currency trade debtors and creditors is recorded at the The impact of adopting FRS 21 at 1 April 2004 is to increase contracted amount.
Realised and unrealised exchange gains and losses shareholders funds by 41m.
on these contracts are recognised in the profit and loss account.
The impact of the adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 is a credit of 1m to Currency options retained earnings and a charge of 4m to other reserves at 1 April 2005 Currency option premia are recognised at their historic cost in the balance on transition to these standards at 1 April 2005. sheet.
At maturity, the hedged item is recorded at the spot exchange rate net of the option premia and any realised gains on exercise.
The comparative numbers have been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy due to the adoption of FRS 20 and FRS 21.
Interest rate swaps The requirements of FRS 25 and FRS 26 have been applied from Interest payments and receipts are accrued and included in net interest 1 April 2005. payable.
They are not revalued to fair value or shown on the balance sheet at the year end.
a Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions for permanent Interest rate caps diminution in value.
The option premia paid are recognised on the balance sheet as Other debtors at cost.
The option premia, net of any realised gains on individual b Tangible xed assets caps, are taken to net interest payable and spread evenly over the expected The cost of tangible xed assets other than freehold land, less their life of the cap.
estimated residual value on disposal, is written down evenly over their expected useful economic lives as follows: Upfront arrangement fees on debt are amortised over the expected term of the debt.
freehold buildings maximum period 50 years: leasehold property over the period of the lease to a maximum Accounting policy from 1 April 2005 of 50 years: and Derivatives, including currency options and swaps, forward exchange ofce equipment and vehicles one to 15 years.
contracts and swaps, and interest rate swaps and caps are initially recognised at fair value at the date of adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26, Freehold land is not depreciated.
Estimated useful lives and residual or if later, on the date a derivative is entered into.
Derivatives are values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
subsequently remeasured at their fair value and classied as current or non-current within the balance sheet based on maturity date.
The fair value c Foreign currencies is determined by using market data and the use of established estimation Exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings and derivative techniques such as discounted cashow and option valuation models.
financial instruments which are used to provide a hedge against foreign currency investments are also taken to reserves to the extent that they match exchange differences on the investments to which they relate.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 94 1 Accounting policies continued g Share-based payment d Derivatives and other financial instruments continued The Company operates several employee option and performance Accounting policy from 1 April 2005 continued share schemes.
The Company designates certain of its derivative instruments as hedges of the fair value of its bonds fair value hedges or hedges of The fair value of options or shares granted under these schemes is investments in foreign operations investment hedges.
Changes in recognised in the income statement as an employee expense over the the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair period in which any performance conditions are fullled, ending on the value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss account, together date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award, with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that based on managements best estimate of the number of awards that will are attributable to the hedged risk.
A corresponding amount is credited to equity.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for those The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are where the vesting depends on a market condition.
Whether or not the designated and qualify as investment hedges are recognised in equity.
market condition is satisfied, these are treated as vesting as long as all To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedging relationship must be other performance conditions are satisfied.
expected to be effective and be designated and documented at its inception.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the profit and loss account when the corresponding foreign operation is The fair value of the awards are measured at the date at which they are disposed of.
Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are granted using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model, except in the case recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
of the Groups senior management profit Related Pay Plan, which is valued using a Monte-Carlo simulation option-pricing model.
Derivatives which are not designated as hedging instruments or do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are measured at fair value.
The Company has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of FRS Movements in their fair value are recognised in the profit and loss 20 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied FRS 20 only to account immediately.
equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on or before 1 April 2005.
The Companys policies on treasury risk management are set out on pages 23 and 24 of the Operating & financial review.
Shares in the Company are held in trust to satisfy the exercise of awards under certain share option and performance share schemes.
These shares e Taxation are presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity at the The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes market value on the date of issue or acquisition.
account of taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions available in FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements and FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from Tax deferred or accelerated by the effect of timing differences is accounted presenting a cash ow statement and details of transactions with related for to the extent that a transaction or event that has occurred at the parties on the basis that the cash ows of the Company are consolidated balance sheet date gives rise to an obligation to pay more tax or a right in the cash ows in the Emap plc consolidated accounts for the year to pay less tax, in the future.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemptions available in FRS 25 from disclosing information on financial Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that, based on instruments on the basis that these disclosures are set out in the available evidence, it is more likely than not that suitable taxable profit will consolidated accounts of Emap plc for the year ended 31 March 2006. arise from which the reversal of the asset can be deducted.
The Company does not discount deferred tax assets or liabilities.
f Retirement benets The Company operates both dened contribution and dened benefit pension schemes.
For dened benefit schemes within the balance sheet, the Company recognises the net of the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, using the projected unit cost method, classied either as a non-current liability if a scheme is in a net deficit position, or a non-current asset if a scheme is in a net asset position.
The value of a schemes assets and liabilities are updated annually and subject to a formal triennial valuation by an independent actuary by discounting the liabilities at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term, and measuring the assets at fair value at the balance sheet date.
The service cost of a scheme, the returns on a schemes assets and interest on a schemes liabilities are taken to the income statement and included in staff costs.
Actuarial gains and losses, along with related taxation, are recognised in equity via the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
For the dened contribution scheme, contributions payable are charged to the profit and loss account and included in staff costs as an operating expense as incurred.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 95
