Parent company accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Emap plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Emap plc We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information for the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise the Balance sheet and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide and the related notes.
These parent company financial statements have us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused is described as having been audited.
by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Emap the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors plc for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the In our opinion: Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2006: and Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and accordance with the Companies Act 1985. International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company 1 Embankment Place financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report London to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the WC2N 6RH Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the 23 May 2006 Directors report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we Notes: have not received all the information and explanations we require for our a The maintenance and integrity of the Emap plc website is the audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors and other transactions is not disclosed.
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial presented on the website.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and statement and the Operating and financial review.
We consider the dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent other jurisdictions.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 92
