37 Related party transactions Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
a Sales and purchases of goods and services to joint ventures and associates 2006 2005 m m Licence income received and rendering of services Associated undertakings 1 1 Purchase of goods and services Joint ventures 1 1 The related party transactions were made on an arms length basis.
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associated undertakings in respect of trading are set out in Note 18.
Amounts owed to joint ventures and associated undertakings in respect of trading are set out in Note 21.
Seymour Distribution Limited deposits surplus cash with Emap plc, and this is included within Borrowings see Note 22. b Remuneration of key management personnel 2006 2005 m m Salaries and other short-term employee benets 2.9 2.6 Termination benets 0.4 Post-employment benets 0.5 0.3 Share-based payments 3.3 0.5 6.7 3.8 Key management personnel primarily comprise the members of the Main and Executive Boards of Emap plc.
Further information about the remuneration of the Directors, who are included within the denition of key management personnel, is provided within the audited section of the Remuneration Report on page 43.
38 Principal subsidiary undertakings All subsidiary undertakings are registered in England and Wales and operate in the United Kingdom, except where indicated otherwise.
All holdings are of Ordinary Shares and all subsidiary undertakings are 100% indirectly owned except where indicated otherwise.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings, and information relating to them as shown below is led with the Companys annual return.
In the opinion of the Directors, the principal subsidiary undertakings that affect Group trading results and net assets are as follows: Agor SAS France Frontline Ltd # 60% Box Television Ltd International Advertising Festival Limited CAP Motor Research Limited Kiss FM Radio Limited Capital Radio Productions Limited Magic 105.4 Limited Downtown Radio Limited Metro Radio Limited Emap Communications Limited Piccadilly Radio Limited Emap Consumer Media Limited Radio City Sound of Merseyside Limited Emap Digital Radio Limited Radio Clyde Limited Emap France SAS France Radio Forth Limited Emap Holdings Pty Radio Hallam Limited Emap International Magazines SAS France Radio Ireland Limited Emap Metro LLC Red Rose Radio Limited Emap Radio Ltd formerly Emap Performance Limited Seymour International Limited Emap Support Services Limited Worth Global Style Network Limited Excelsior Publications SA France Direct subsidiary undertaking of Emap plc.
Emap plc holds 33% of the voting rights in Frontline Limited.
#Although the Company does not hold a majority of the voting rights in this company, this is included in subsidiary undertakings on the basis that the Group exercises dominant inuence over its operating and financial policies.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 85
