Consolidated accounts Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation General information The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, These accounts have been prepared in accordance with International except for derivative financial instruments which have been measured at Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International fair value.
Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committees IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the The following summarises the principal accounting policies adopted European Union EU, applicable at 31 March 2006 and those parts of by the Directors.
These policies have been applied consistently to both the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
years presented, with the exception of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: This is the Groups first set of accounts prepared in accordance with Recognition and Measurement which were applied with effect from IFRS, and the comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2005 1 April 2005, the impact of which is explained in Note 39.
The exemptions has been restated from the Groups previously published accounts for taken under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS are disclosed in Note 39.
2005 prepared under UK GAAP, to comply with IFRS.
The Groups date of transition to IFRS was 1 April 2004 and reconciliations between a Basis of consolidation IFRS and UK GAAP previously reported equity at 1 April 2004 The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and its and 31 March 2005, and profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2006.
A subsidiary are presented in Note 39 below.
is an entity including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally The Group has adopted the amended versions of IAS 19 Employee accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights.
Benets and IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives within The results of each subsidiary are included from the date that control these accounts, which were not mandatory for the financial years transferred to the Group and are adjusted to align accounting policies presented within these accounts.
The IASB has published certain with the Groups accounting policies.
Subsidiaries are no longer other new standards and amendments to existing standards which consolidated from the date that control ceases.
All intercompany balances are not effective until the Groups next financial statements, except and transactions are eliminated in full.
as noted below and which have not been adopted early by the Group.
These include: Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is the cash paid together with the fair value of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and its related amendment to other assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or IAS 1.
IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures of qualitative and quantitative assumed, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The acquired information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their including specified minimum disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk fair values at the date of acquisition, irrespective of the extent of any minority and market risk effective for 2008 accounts.
Independent expert valuers are used to ascertain the fair values of acquired intangible assets if material.
The excess of the cost of acquisition IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
over the fair value of net assets assumed is recorded as goodwill.
IFRIC 4 requires the determination whether an arrangement is or contains a lease to be based on the substance of the arrangement.
Minority interests represents the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group.
IFRIC 8 clarifies the extent to which equity settled transactions less than fair value fall within the scope b Investments in associates and joint ventures of IFRS 2.
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant inuence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding The adoption of these standards is not expected to have a material of between 20% to 50% of the voting rights.
A joint venture is an entity impact on the Groups results.
over which the Group exercises joint control, usually through a contractual arrangement.
The Groups investments in associates and joint ventures The following new standards are not considered to be relevant to the are recognised using the equity method of accounting.
Groups current activities and operations: Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recognised IAS 39 amendment, Cash ow hedge accounting of forecast at cost and thereafter are carried in the balance sheet at cost less any intra-group transactions: impairment in value and include the carrying value of related goodwill and the Groups share of changes in the associate or joint ventures net IAS 39 amendment and IFRS 4 amendment, Financial Guarantee assets since acquisition.
The income statement reects the Groups share Contracts and Credit Insurance: of an associate or joint ventures profit after tax.
Where the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture exceeds its investment, the IAS 39 amendment, The Fair Value Option: Group ceases to recognise further losses unless an obligation exists for the Group to fund the losses.
Where a change in net assets has been IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources and its recognised directly in the associate or joint ventures equity, the Group related amendment to IFRS 1: recognises its share of those changes in the statement of changes in equity when applicable.
IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds: Adjustments are made to align the accounting policies of the associate or joint venture with the Group and to eliminate the Groups share of IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specic Market unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment: and associates and joint ventures.
IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinationary Economies.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 52
