Group accounting policies Basis of preparation Business combinations and goodwill The consolidated financial information comprises the accounts of the The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition Company and its subsidiaries which have been prepared in accordance of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value with applicable accounting standards.
Following a regulation adopted by of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or the European Parliament, the consolidated financial information has been assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities and contingent IFRS.
The Groups principal accounting policies under IFRS are set out liabilities assumed, in a business combination are measured initially at below.
The transition date for the application of IFRS is 1 April 2004, and their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any the comparative figures for year ended 31 March 2005 have been restated minority interest.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair accordingly.
value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
IFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRS When preparing its IFRS balance sheet as at 31 March 2006, the Group Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost.
Following initial has taken the following options available under IFRS 1 in applying IFRS: recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated The requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations have been applied impairment losses.
prospectively from 1 April 2003: Certain properties were held at revalued amounts as at 31 March 2004.
Due to the adoption of IFRS 3 Business Combinations from 1 April 2003, On conversion, these revalued amounts were frozen and deemed cost goodwill on acquisitions from 1 April 2003 is not amortised and goodwill in the case of these properties: already carried in the balance sheet is not amortised from 1 April 2003.
All actuarial gains and losses in respect of defined benefit pension and Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if events post-retirement schemes have been recognised in full in equity from or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be 1 April 2004: impaired.
Cumulative translation differences relating to net investments in overseas companies that arose prior to 1 April 2004 have been set to zero and will For an asset, such as goodwill, that does not generate largely independent not be included in any subsequent calculation of profit or loss on disposal: cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the smallest Only those employee share options granted after 7 November 2002 that identifiable group of assets including that asset that generates cash had not vested as at 1 January 2005 have been remeasured at fair value: inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets and or groups of assets a cash generating unit.
The Group has chosen to adopt IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Intangible assets Measurement from 1 April 2004.
Intangible assets include music copyrights and other intangibles.
Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost, whilst those acquired Basis of consolidation as part of a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value at the date The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of acquisition.
of EMI Group plc and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets with finite lives are All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits amortised on a systematic basis over their economic useful lives.
These and losses arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
lives are estimated on an individual basis at periods of anything up to and including 20 years.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment if events Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control impaired.
Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which EMI Group plc has control.
Intangible assets created within the business that cannot be distinguished from the cost of developing the business as a whole are not capitalised.
Foreign currency translation Any relevant expenditure is charged against profit from operations in the Sterling is the functional currency of the parent undertaking and period in which the expenditure is incurred.
the presentational currency of the Group.
The functional currency of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies foreign operations Property, plant and equipment is the currency of the primary economic environment in which they operate.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional a straight line basis to write off the cost, less residual value, of assets over currency at the rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets the estimated useful life of the asset.
The annual rates used are: and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the Freehold buildings 2% functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Property held under finance leases and leasehold improvements Period of lease All differences are taken to the income statement with the exception of 1 Plant, equipment and vehicles 10 33 3% differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the in the income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange carrying value may not be recoverable.
Where an indicator of impairment differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
Where items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions.
is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair values were determined.
Assets are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their income difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying value statements are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for of the asset is included in the income statement in the period in which the period.
The exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign the item is derecognised.
operations are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in Assets are held at historical cost with the exception that certain properties equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the in the subsidiary undertaking Toshiba-EMI Limited are carried at revalued income statement.
This frozen carrying value was deemed cost in the case of these properties.
63 Group accounting policies continued Leases Borrowings Assets which are held under a finance lease, which transfers to the Group All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with a corresponding After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are liability being recognised for the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of the lease liability costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses on so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the derecognition are recognised in finance charges.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Hedge accounting is adopted where derivatives, such as fixed to floating interest rate swaps, are held as fair value hedges against fixed interest Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of rate borrowings.
Under fair value hedge accounting, fixed interest rate ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease borrowings are revalued at each balance sheet date by the change in fair payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a value attributable to the interest rate risk being hedged.
straight line basis over the lease term.
Financial derivatives Investments in joint ventures and associates The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for using the swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with equity method.
The investment is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate, instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps less any impairment in value or dividends received.
The Groups share of and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market the results after interest and tax of the associate are included in profit from rates for similar instruments.
When an associate has recognised a change in net assets other than through the income statement, the Group recognises its share For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: of the change and discloses it, when applicable, in the statement of fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair recognised income and expense.
value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to either The Group has a number of jointly controlled operations where there is no a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a separate legal entity.
The expenses that the Group incurs, and the share forecast transaction.
of the income that the Group earns from the sale of goods by these jointly controlled operations, are included in the income statement.
The assets In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps that the Group controls, and the liabilities that the Group incurs, in respect held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which of these jointly controlled operations are included in the balance sheet.
meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised Other investments immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged All investments are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying consideration given and including acquisition charges associated with amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
At acquisition, all investments are classified as either fair value through profit and loss, held-to-maturity or available-for-sale in For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement.
Those investments classified as held-to-maturity or available-for-sale are designated as non-current assets.
Unlisted held-to-maturity or availableGuaranteed convertible bonds for-sale investments are held on the balance sheet at cost less any The component of the guaranteed convertible bonds that exhibits impairment in value.
Listed held-to-maturity or available-for-sale investments characteristics of a liability is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet, are held on the balance sheet at fair value, with any changes in fair value net of issue costs.
On issue of the guaranteed convertible bonds, the fair being recognised in equity.
value of the liability component was determined using a market rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
This amount is carried as a liability Those investments classified as fair value through profit and loss are on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
designated as current assets and are held on the balance sheet at fair As the convertible bonds are denominated in US Dollars but are convertible value, with any changes in fair value being recognised in the income to Sterling shares, the remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the statement along with gains or losses on disposal.
conversion option that is recognised and included as a derivative liability, net of issue costs.
The value of the conversion option is revalued to fair Advances value at each balance sheet date, with movements in fair value reflected In the ordinary course of business the Group pays advances and other as finance costs or finance income.
expenses recoupable from future royalties to performing artists, songwriters, producers and third party repertoire owners.
The amounts paid are carried Issue costs were apportioned between the liability and derivative at cost less recoupment and less an allowance for any unrecoupable components of the guaranteed convertible bonds based on the amounts.
The allowance is based on past revenue performance, current allocation of proceeds to the liability and derivative components popularity and projected revenue.
when the instruments were first recognised.
Advances are recoupable during the business operating cycle.
All advances Provisions are therefore reported as current assets, including advances recoupable Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
legal or constructive as a result of a past event, when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required Inventories to settle the obligation and when a reliable estimate can be made of Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of includes manufacturing overheads where appropriate.
a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the Trade receivables reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is Trade receivables, which generally have 30-90 day terms, are recognised presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect and carried at the originally invoiced amount less an allowance for any of the time value of money on the quantification of the provision is material, doubtful debts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value identified.
of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of Cash and cash equivalents time is recognised as finance costs.
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the Group consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
64 Pensions and other employee benefits Income tax The Group operates three major defined benefit pension schemes, plus a Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and number of smaller defined benefit pension schemes.
The cost of providing deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except benefits under the schemes is determined separately for each scheme to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which using the projected unit actuarial valuation method.
case it is recognised in equity.
Liabilities of the schemes are discounted by the current rate of return of an Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the AA-rated corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.
period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance Assets of the schemes are measured at fair value at the balance sheet sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous date.
Actuarially calculated surpluses or deficits on the defined benefit periods.
schemes are included within the consolidated balance sheet.
The current service cost of each of the schemes is charged against profit from operations.
Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences between the Expected returns on defined benefit scheme assets and interest on defined carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes benefit scheme liabilities are included as finance income and finance and the tax base.
The following temporary differences are not provided costs, respectively.
With effect from 1April 2004, the Group has adopted for: the initial recognition of goodwill or of assets or liabilities that affect the amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits that permits actuarial gains neither accounting nor taxable profit that is not a business combination: and losses to be charged or credited directly to equity through the and temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, joint statement of recognised income and expense.
ventures and associates where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and to the extent that it is probable that the In addition, the Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes.
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or statement as incurred.
settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Employee benefits, other than post-employment benefits, that can be carried forward if they have not been used are accrued as they are earned A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that until the benefit is paid or used.
Those employee benefits that are foregone future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
if not taken at the time are expensed when incurred.
Segments Revenue A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic is recognised: environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from Sale of goods: revenue is recognised when the significant risks and those segments operating in other economic environments.
rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at fair value after making Exceptional items and amortisation provision in respect of expected future returns of goods and services Exceptional items and amortisation are excluded from underlying results supplied by the Group prior to the balance sheet date: in order to provide a better understanding of the normalised trading of the Royalty and other income: all royalty and other income is recognised Group.
The Group considers that such items would fall into either of two when it has been earned and can be reliably measured.
categories: operating exceptional items and amortisation: and finance exceptional items.
Interest income is recognised when it has been earned and can be reliabily measured.
The Group defines operating exceptional items and amortisation as items which derive either from events or transactions that it considers fall Share-based payments outwith the ordinary activities of the Group or from events or transactions The share option programme allows certain Group employees to acquire that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but which, individually or, shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised if of a similar type, in aggregate, need to be disclosed separately by virtue as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair of their size or incidence if the financial statements are to give a true and value is measured at grant date and the expense is spread over the period fair view.
Similarly, the Group defines finance exceptional items as items during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the which derive either from events or transactions that it considers fall options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a binomial outwith the ordinary financing activities of the Group or from events lattice model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which or transactions that fall within the ordinary financing activities of the Group the options were granted.
but which, individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence if the financial The amount recognised as an expense reflects the extent to which the statements are to give a true and fair view.
vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of awards that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that Events or transactions that the Group would consider as falling outwith do not ultimately vest, except for awards where the vesting is conditional its ordinary activities could include, but are not limited to: the revaluation upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of and or disposal of property, plant and equipment: the revaluation and or whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other disposal of held-to-maturity or available-for-sale investments or performance conditions are satisfied.
investments at fair value through profit and loss: the disposal and or closure of a business, jointly controlled operation or associate: and Employees of certain subsidiaries of the Group participate in the the costs of a fundamental reorganisation or restructuring.
Events or employee share incentive plans and the Group has an employee share transactions that the Group would consider as falling within its ordinary trust to satisfy non-transferable options granted to executives and senior activities but which need to be disclosed separately could include, but are employees.
Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are not limited to: the amortisation and impairment of music copyrights and treated as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a intangibles: the impairment of goodwill: and the impairment of the cost deduction from equity.
of an investment in a business, jointly controlled operation or associate.
Events or transactions that the Group would consider as falling outwith The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 its ordinary financing activities could include, but are not limited to: gains in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equityor losses on the revaluation of derivative financial instruments: gains or settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on losses on the retranslation of foreign currency-denominated borrowings or before 1 January 2005. to the extent that they do not provide a hedge against foreign currencydenominated investments: and gains or losses from the ineffectiveness Finance charges of the interest rate swaps hedge.
Events or transactions that the Group Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using would consider as falling within its ordinary financing activities but which the effective interest rate method, foreign exchange losses and losses need to be disclosed separately could include, but are not limited to, on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
costs incurred as part of the Groups refinancing programmes.
Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested calculated using the effective interest rate method, dividend income, foreign exchange gains and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
