Company accounting policies Basis of preparation Provision is made for gains which have been rolled over into replacement As used in the financial statements and related notes, the term Company assets only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a refers to EMI Group plc.
The separate financial statements of the Company commitment to dispose of the replacement assets.
Provision is made are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted for deferred tax that would arise from remittance of the retained earnings by the Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent accordance with UK GAAP.
that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable convention.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
By virtue of Section 230 of the Companies Act, the results for the years ended 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 represent continuing operations.
Financial instruments As described further in Note 37, financial instruments for the year ended As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company 31 March 2006 are reported in accordance with FRS 26 Financial has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.
The accounting policies for both years are set out below: Restatement due to changes in accounting policy The 2005 accounts previously reported have been restated for the The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate adoption of FRS 20 Share-based Payment, FRS 21 Events After Balance swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with Sheet Date, FRS 25 Financial Instrurments Disclosure and Presentation interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial and FRS 26 Financial Instruments Measurement.
instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market Foreign currencies rates for similar instruments.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into Sterling fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value either at year end rates or, where there are related forward foreign exchange of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge contracts, at contract rates.
The resulting exchange differences are dealt exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to either a particular with in the determination of profit for the financial year.
risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
Turnover In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps Turnover represents the invoiced value or contracted amount of goods held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which and services supplied by the Company.
Turnover is stated net of actual meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from product returns and excludes value added tax and similar sales-related remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately taxes.
Provision is also made in respect of expected future returns of in the profit and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item goods and services supplied by the Company and its subsidiaries prior attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount to the balance sheet date.
of the hedged item and recognised in the profit and loss account.
Retirement benefits For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or Retirement benefits are accounted for under FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the profit The Company operates both defined benefit and defined contribution and loss account.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of its defined benefit schemes and This policy has been applied retrospectively to the prior year financial so, in accordance with FRS 17, the Company accounts for them as defined statements.
Share-based payments Tangible fixed assets The share option programme allows certain Company employees Assets are held at depreciated historical cost.
to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is calculated on cost at rates estimated in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and the expense to write off the cost, less the estimated residual value of the relevant is spread over the period during which the employees become assets, by equal annual amounts over their expected useful lives: effect unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options is given, where necessary, to commercial and technical obsolescence.
granted is measured using a binomial lattice model, taking into account The annual rates used are: the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
Freehold buildings and long-term leasehold property 2% The amount recognised as an expense reflects the extent to which the Short-term leasehold property Period of lease vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number 1 Plant, equipment and vehicles 10 33 3% of awards that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where the vesting is The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting in periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided value may not be recoverable.
that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Taxation The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based The Company has undertaken to discharge the liability to corporation tax Payment which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or of the majority of its wholly owned UK subsidiaries.
Their UK tax liabilities after 1 January 2005 and, as such, has been applied to these accounts.
are, therefore, dealt with in the accounts of the Company.
Under FRS20, the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is recognised in the profit and loss account over their vesting period by Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have reference to the fair value of the date at which they were granted.
The originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transations or charge is only calculated on awards made after 7 November 2002 as a events have occurred at the date that will result in an obligation to pay more result of the transition option applied by the Company.
tax, or right to pay less, or to receive more tax with the following exceptions: Events after the balance sheet date Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and FRS 21 is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, or gains on disposal of 2005 and as such has been applied for the first time to these accounts.
Under fixed assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a FRS 21, the charge and liability for the final proposed dividend are not binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no recognised in accounts until approved by the shareholders at the AGM.
provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the Previously, the dividend was recognised when proposed by the Directors.
balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets.
