Company auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of EMI Group plc We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider We have audited the parent company financial statements of EMI Group whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprises the Company statements.
The other information comprises only the unaudited part balance sheet, Company accounting policies and the related notes 34 of the Remuneration report, the Chairmans statement and the Operating to 44.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared and Financial Review.
We consider the implications for our report if we under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies the information in the Remuneration report that is described as having with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not been audited.
extend to any other information.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of EMI Basis of audit opinion Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2006.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Remuneration report and the parent company financial statements company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements report to be audited.
and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards Opinion on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting statements give a true and fair view, the parent company financial Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2006: statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have the parent company financial statements and the part of the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared that the information given in the parent company Directors report is in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and consistent with the financial statements.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 22 May 2006 91
