12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 125 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the the register at close of business on 29 December Company to be held on Thursday, 16 January 2006 as holders of ordinary shares of 5 pence each in 2007 is set out on pages 121 to 124 of this respect of their respective holdings at close of document.
The following notes provide an business on 29 December 2006. explanation as to why the resolutions set out in Resolutions 4 and 5 Reappointment of the notice are to be put to shareholders.
Mr D A Harding and Mr W S Townsend Resolutions 1 to 8 are ordinary resolutions.
These The Companys articles of association require that any resolutions will be passed if more than 50% of the director who was not appointed or reappointed at votes cast for or against are in favour.
either of the last two annual general meetings before this meeting must retire, although they may offer Resolution 1 Laying of Accounts themselves for reappointment.
Mr D A Harding and Mr The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 W S Townsend are retiring and seeking reappointment.
the Act to present to the shareholders of the Biographical information for Mr D A Harding and Mr Company at a general meeting the reports of the W S Townsend is shown on pages 13 to 14 of the directors and auditors, and the audited accounts of the annual report and accounts.
Details of why the Board Company, for the year ended 30 September 2006.
The believes they should be re-elected are included in the report of the directors and the audited accounts have directors reporting in the annual report and accounts been approved by the directors, and the report of the starting at page 15. auditors has been approved by the auditors, and a copy of each of these documents may be found in the Resolution 6 Auditors appointment annual report and accounts, starting at page 1.
The Act requires that auditors be appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are laid, to hold Resolution 2 Remuneration Report office until the next such meeting.
The resolution The Act requires the Company to seek shareholder seeks shareholder approval for the reappointment of approval for the Directors Remuneration Report at the Ernst & Young LLP.
The Audit Committee keeps under general meeting before which the Companys annual review the independence and objectivity of the accounts are laid.
The Directors Remuneration Report external auditors, further information on which can be is included in the annual report and accounts, starting found in the annual report and accounts on page 24. at page 28.
If shareholders vote against the report the After considering relevant information the Audit directors will still be paid but the Remuneration Committee recommended to the Board of directors Committee will reconsider its policy.
the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP.
Resolution 3 Declaration of a Final Dividend Resolution 7 Auditors remuneration An interim dividend of 9 pence net has already been This resolution gives the directors the authority to paid in respect of the 2005 2006 financial year.
The determine the remuneration of the auditors for the directors are recommending a final dividend of 18 audit work to be carried out by them in the next pence net per ordinary share of 5 pence, payable on financial year.
The amount of the remuneration paid to 22 January 2007 to holders on the register as at 6.00 the auditors for the next financial year will be p. m. on 29 December 2006.
The final dividend will not disclosed in the next audited accounts of the Company.
be paid without shareholder approval and its amount may not exceed the amount recommended by the Resolution 8 Authority to the directors to directors.
allot shares For the avoidance of doubt, the final dividend will not Under the Act the directors may only allot shares if be paid to those persons that are holders of ordinary authorised by shareholders to do so.
If passed, this 1 shares of 2 2 pence each at the date of payment in resolution will authorise the directors to allot and issue respect of their shareholdings on the payment date.
It new shares up to an aggregate nominal value of will be paid to those persons that were recorded on 4,982,879 up to 199,315,186 new ordinary shares of Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 125 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 126 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting 1 1 2 2 pence each if resolution 9 is passed and up to the admission of the new ordinary shares of 2 2 99,657,593 new ordinary shares of 5 pence each if pence each to the Official List of the UK Listing resolution 9 is not passed, which is equal to Authority and for their admission to trading on the approximately one-third 33.33% of the issued share market for listed securities of London Stock Exchange capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as plc.
Dealings in the new ordinary shares are expected at 1 December 2006, being the latest practicable date to commence on 17 January 2007.
At that time the prior to the publication of the notice.
The authority will Companys former ordinary shares of 5 pence each expire 15 months after the date of passing of the will be removed from the Official List and no longer resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual traded.
General Meeting of the Company in 2008.
For holdings in uncertificated form, it is expected that Passing this resolution will continue the directors the appropriate share accounts in CREST will be flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, credited with shareholders entitlements to the new when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
The ordinary shares with effect from 17 January 2007.
For directors currently have no intention of issuing new holdings in certificated form, new share certificates shares.
will be sent to shareholders at their own risk as soon as practicable after 17 January 2007.
Certificates for As at 1 December 2006, being the latest practicable the former ordinary shares of 5 pence each will cease date prior to the publication of the notice, the to be valid upon the issue of the new share Company had 299,002,681 ordinary shares of 5 pence certificates: they should be destroyed or, at the each in issue and held 25,000,000 treasury shares, Companys request, delivered to the Company or as it which is equal to approximately 8.36% of the issued may direct.
share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at that date.
In accordance with the rules of the Enterprise Inns 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme, Enterprise Inns Resolution 9 Sub-division of ordinary share 1995 Savings Related Share Option Scheme, capital Enterprise Inns Incentive Plan 2002, Enterprise Inns This resolution, if passed, will sub-divide each of the 2005 Share Incentive Plan, Enterprise Inns 2005 ordinary shares of 5 pence in the Company into two Annual Bonus Plan, Enterprise Inns 2005 Employee 1 ordinary shares of 2 2 pence.
The directors believe Share Option Scheme, Enterprise Inns 2005 Save as that having a larger number of shares with a lower you Earn Scheme and Enterprise Inns 2005 Long Term market value should attract and retain larger numbers Incentive Plan together the Share Schemes, the of private shareholders and ensure the continuing directors may, if appropriate, make adjustments to the liquidity of the Companys shares.
number of ordinary shares comprised in each The financial position of the Company will not be outstanding option and the price at which such affected by the sub-division of the ordinary shares.
In the case of HMRC approved sub-division will not reduce the Companys assets, share options, such adjustments will be subject to liabilities or shareholders funds.
Option holders will be informed of the authorised and issued share capital will remain of the adjustments in accordance with the terms of the Share same amount.
Each shareholder will hold the same Schemes.
The remuneration committee is empowered percentage interest in the issued capital of the to adjust, in any manner, the number of ordinary Company immediately after the sub-division becomes shares comprised in any incentive after it has vested effective as that shareholder held before.
The new that it deems appropriate to counteract the effect of 1 ordinary shares of 2 2 pence each will in all respects the proposed sub-division on the value of the carry the same rights as the existing ordinary shares of incentive.
The Companys auditors must confirm in 5 pence each.
writing that any such adjustment is fair and reasonable before it is implemented.
If resolution 9 is passed, application will be made for 126 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 127 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 10 and 11 are special resolutions.
and ii the higher of the price of the last independent These resolutions will be passed if not less than trade and the highest current independent bid on the 75% of the votes cast for and against are in trading venues where the purchase is carried out.
authority will only be exercised if market conditions make it advantageous to do so.
Resolution 10 Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights On 21 November 2006 the date of the notice the If the Company issues new shares for cash it must first Company announced its intention to continue its offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to rolling share buy-back programme.
The directors their current holdings, in compliance with their intend to use the authority granted pursuant to this statutory pre-emption rights.
If passed, this resolution resolution in pursuance of the share buy-back will authorise the directors to modify these rights to programme.
Further details of the share buy-back deal with legal, regulatory or practical problems that programme are set out in the Chairmans Statement may arise on a rights or other pre-emptive offer or and the Chief Executives Review in the annual report issue.
and accounts, starting at page 2.
The resolution also seeks shareholder authority to The directors present intention is that shares issue a limited number of shares for cash and or sell purchased pursuant to this authority to the extent treasury shares without offering them to shareholders statutory requirements are met will be cancelled first.
The authority is for an aggregate nominal amount immediately on purchase.
Alternatively the shares of up to 5% of the aggregate nominal value of the may be held in treasury provided any treasury shares issued share capital of the Company as at 1 December held do not exceed 10% of the Companys issued 2006, being the latest practicable date prior to the share capital, sold for cash provided Listing Rule publication of the notice up to 32,400,268 new requirements are met or transferred to an employee 1 ordinary shares of 2 2 pence each if resolution 9 is share scheme.
The effect of any cancellation would be passed and up to 16,200,134 new ordinary shares of 5 to reduce the number of shares in issue.
For most pence if resolution 9 is not passed.
The authority will purposes, while held in treasury shares are treated as expire at the same time as the authority to allot if they have been cancelled for example, they carry shares given pursuant to resolution 8. no voting rights and do not rank for dividends.
The directors will only make purchases under this The directors consider this authority necessary in order authority and or the rolling share buy-back to give them flexibility to deal with opportunities as programme if they believe that to do so would result they arise, subject to the restrictions contained in the in an increased earnings per share and would be in resolution.
the interests of shareholders generally.
Resolution 11 Purchase of own shares by the As at 1 December 2006, being the latest practicable Company date prior to the publication of the notice, options If passed this resolution will grant the Company were outstanding over 4,057,974 ordinary shares of 5 authority for a period of up to 15 months after the pence each in the Company representing date of passing of the resolution to buy its own shares approximately 1.36% of the issued share capital of the in the market.
The resolution limits the number of Company excluding treasury shares at that date.
If shares that may be purchased to 14.99% of the the proposed market purchase authority were used in Companys issued share capital excluding treasury full, shares over which options were outstanding shares as at 1 December 2006, being the latest would, as at 1 December 2006, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice.
practicable date prior to the publication of the notice, The price per ordinary share that the Company may represent approximately 1.60% of the Companys pay is set at a minimum amount excluding expenses adjusted issued share capital excluding treasury 1 of 2 2 pence per ordinary share if resolution 9 is shares at that date.
passed and 5 pence per ordinary share if resolution 9 is not passed and a maximum amount excluding expenses of the higher of: i 5 per cent over the average of the previous 5 days middle market prices Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 127 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 128 128 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 1 The Enterprise Inns Board Contents Financial Highlights 1 Chairmans Statement 2 Chief Executives Review incorporating the business review 3 Corporate Responsibility 9 Directors and Advisers 13 Directors Report 15 Corporate Governance 21 Directors Remuneration Report 28 Group Income Statement 38 The Piccadilly Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 39 Group Balance Sheet 40 Group Cash Flow Statement 41 THE PICCADILLY, CAERPHILLY, MID GLAMORGAN Notes to the Group Accounts 42 WINNER Tenanted or leasehold Pub of the Year Group Audit Report 90 Morning Advertiser Pub Awards Left to right: Hubert Reid, Chairman Five Year Record 92 David George, Chief Financial Officer Mark Parry and Tracy Hammonds business plan transformed Enterprise Inns plc Company Accounts 93 Susan Murray, Non-executive director a basic local pub into a stylish venue, including a grand Company Balance Sheet 94 Ted Tuppen, Chief Executive dining room overlooking Caerphilly Castle.
They have Notes to the Company Accounts 95 David Harding, Non-executive director attracted a new set of customers whilst retaining their The Lion Simon Townsend, Chief Operating Officer Company Directors Responsibilities 115 place in the community.
Jo Stewart, Non-executive director Company Audit Report 116 LION, TEDDINGTON Analysis of Shareholders 118 WINNER London Pub of the Year CAMRA Financial Calendar 119 Cask ale is the lifeblood of the Lion, where Don Witts and Shareholder Information 120 Myfawny Williams maintain exceptional quality standards whilst Notice of Annual General Meeting 121 constantly reviewing and updating their mix of beer styles and Explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM 125 brands.
Here is a selection of award-winning Enterprise licensees who were recognised during the year for the quality of their businesses and their outstanding Old White Beare entrepreneurial skills: Inn on the Green OLD WHITE BEARE, NORWOOD GREEN, WEST YORKSHIRE WINNER Village Pub of the Year 2006 Morning Advertiser INN ON THE GREEN, BRISTOL Pub Awards WINNER Bristol Pub of the Year 2006 CAMRA Since taking over this pub last summer, Chris and Nick Green have Oliver Bainbridges transformation of this pub began in 2003.
As well restored a neglected sixteenth Century pub to its former glory with as offering a distinctly upmarket food menu, the pub currently serves a major refurbishment.
Following the introduction of new staff and a a range of more than 10 different real ales and attracts a wide range successful PR campaign, the pub now attracts destination diners of clientele.
whilst remaining at the heart of the village.
Thorverton Arms THORVERTON ARMS, EXETER WINNER Newcomer of the year award 2006 The Publican Food Awards The Thorverton Arms dates back to The Pack Horse 1542, when it first opened as a coaching inn.
Garth and Melissa Pearse offer an extensive range of locally sourced products: simple THE PACK HORSE, HAYFIELD, DERBYSHIRE fresh home-made food is presented Ye Old Sun Inn WINNER Best Pub 2006 Northern Hospitality Awards in a comfortable and relaxed REGIONAL WINNER Gastro Pub of the Year 2006 atmosphere and offered at YE OLD SUN INN, COLTON, NORTH YORKSHIRE Morning Advertiser Pub Awards affordable prices.
WINNER Pub Food innovation of the year 2006 The Pack Horse was taken over by Suzy Turner and Andy Williams in Master Robert Inn The Publican Food Awards 2003.
After careful research and a major investment, the pub is now Since Ashley and Kelly McCarthys arrival at the pub two recognised and respected throughout the region for the quality of its years ago, Ye Old Suns status has evolved from a goodMASTER ROBERT INN, BURITON food offer.
food venue into innovative gastropub.
Head chef Ashley WINNER Rural pub of the Year 2006 Calor Gas grows his own range of herbs and vegetables to provide a Pauline Davey and her partner Tim Smith took over the Master Robert Front cover pictures left to right Back cover pictures left to right constant supply of fresh kitchen ingredients.
In addition, Inn in January 2005 and, working with the Pub is the Hub campaign, Worlds End, Ecton Bell, Welford-on-Avon an on-site delicatessen, with fresh bread baked daily, has have added to the business by transforming the function room into a proved a major bonus for local residents.
much valued post office and shop.
Worlds End, Ecton English lounge, Manchester Plough, Harborne English lounge, Manchester The text pages of this document are printed on paper made from 75% recycled fibre Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Enterprise Inns plc Enterprise Inns plc 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ Tel: 44 0 121 733 7700 Fax: 44 0 121 733 6447 www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2006
