12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 120 Shareholder Information Shareholder Enquiries Dividend Payments Dividends can be paid direct to UK bank or building society accounts using the BACS system so that your dividend can be paid into your account on the same The Companys registrars, Computershare Investor day the Company makes payment.
A tax voucher will Services PLC, keep the Companys register of still be provided and sent to shareholders by post.
shareholders up to date, distribute statutory Shareholders who wish to arrange direct payment documents and administer the payment of dividends.
using this method should telephone the registrars on If you have a query regarding your shareholding 0870 889 4080.
You can also register online or please contact them direct by using the dedicated download a printable mandate form at telephone enquiry line 0870 889 4080. www.
com uk investor etp You can also use the registrars website to check your shareholding and maintain your records.
Details can be found at www.
com uk investor etp Electronic Communications The Company has introduced innovative ways of communicating with shareholders electronically via eTree, an environmental incentive programme.
For every shareholder who signs up to receive electronic communications we will donate a sapling to the Woodland Trust, the UKs leading woodland conservation charity.
All saplings will be planted through the Trusts Tree for All campaign, a national tree planting and education programme, working with schools and communities to plant 12 million trees.
For details and to register to receive future communications electronically, please visit www.
com enterpriseinns Share Dealing Service The registrars also offer a share dealing service which allows you to buy and sell the Companys shares if you are a UK resident.
You can deal in your shares on the internet or by phone.
com dealing uk or call 0870 703 0084 between 8.00 am and 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday, for more information about this service and details of the rates.
120 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
