12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 121 Notice of Annual General Meeting This notice is important and requires your immediate before such expiry make an offer or agreement which attention.
If you are in any doubt about the action would or might require relevant securities to be you should take, you should immediately consult allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or accountant or other independent financial adviser agreement as if the authority conferred by this duly authorised under the Financial Services and resolution had not expired.
THAT, conditional upon the admission of the new 1 The 2007 Annual General Meeting of Enterprise Inns ordinary shares of 2 2 pence each as referred to plc the Company will be held at the offices of the below to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority Company, 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West and to trading on London Stock Exchange plcs Midlands, B90 4SJ at 11.00 a. m. on 16 January market for listed securities occurring by 8.00 a. m. on 2007 for the following purposes: 17 January 2007 or such other time and or date as the directors may in their absolute discretion Ordinary resolutions determine, each of the Companys issued and To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following unissued existing ordinary shares of 5 pence each be resolutions, which will be proposed as ordinary 1 sub-divided into two new ordinary shares of 2 2 resolutions: pence each.
To receive the directors report and the audited Special resolutions accounts for the year ended 30 September 2006 and To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following the auditors report on the accounts.
resolutions, which will be proposed as special 2.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the resolutions: year ended 30 September 2006.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 8, the directors be and are empowered pursuant to section 3.
To declare a final dividend of 18 pence per ordinary 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity share of the Company for the year ended 30 securities as defined in section 94 2 of that Act for September 2006, which shall be payable to cash pursuant to the general authority conferred on shareholders who are on the register of members as them by resolution 8 and or to sell equity securities at the close of business on 29 December 2006. held as treasury shares for cash pursuant to section 4.
To reappoint Mr D A Harding as a director.
162D of that Act, in each case as if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, 5.
To reappoint Mr W S Townsend as a director.
provided that this power shall be limited to: 6.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the a any such allotment and or sale of equity Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the securities in connection with an issue or offer by next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
way of rights or other pre-emptive issue or offer, 7.
To authorise the directors to determine Ernst & Young open for acceptance for a period fixed by the LLPs remuneration as auditors of the Company.
directors, to holders of ordinary shares other than the Company on the register on any record date 8.
THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally fixed by the directors in proportion as nearly as authorised in substitution for all subsisting may be to the respective number of ordinary authorities to the extent unused to exercise all shares deemed to be held by them, subject to powers of the Company to allot relevant securities such exclusions or other arrangements as the within the meaning of section 80 2 of the directors may deem necessary or expedient in Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal relation to fractional entitlements, legal or amount of 4,982,879.
This authority shall expire practical problems arising in any overseas unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the territory, the requirements of any regulatory body Company in general meeting 15 months after the or stock exchange or any other matter date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at whatsoever: and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2008, except that the Company may b any such allotment and or sale, otherwise than Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 121 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 122 Notice of Annual General Meeting pursuant to sub-paragraph a above, of equity i the maximum number of ordinary shares that securities for cash having, in the case of relevant may be acquired is 44,820,501: shares as defined in section 94 5 of that Act, an ii the minimum price per ordinary share that aggregate nominal value, or, in the case of other may be paid for any such share excluding equity securities, giving the right to subscribe for expenses is 5 pence: and or convert into relevant shares having an aggregate nominal value, not exceeding in iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses aggregate the sum of 810,006. which may be paid for each ordinary share shall not be more than the higher of: This authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in general A 105% of the average of the market values meeting, at such time as the general authority of such ordinary shares as derived from conferred on the directors by resolution 8 expires, the Daily Official List of the London Stock except that the Company may before such expiry Exchange for the five business days make an offer or agreement which would or might immediately preceding the date on which require equity securities to be allotted or equity the purchase is made: and securities held as treasury shares to be sold after B that stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buysuch expiry and the directors may allot equity back and Stabilisation Regulation EC securities and or sell equity securities held as 2273 2003. treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this This authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, resolution had not expired.
revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, 15 months after the date of the passing of 11.
THAT the Company be and is generally and this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the unconditionally authorised to make market purchases Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2008, as defined in section 163 3 of the Companies Act except that the Company may, at any time before the 1985 of: expiry of this authority, enter into a contract or a if resolution 9 is passed its ordinary shares of contracts to purchase ordinary shares which would or 1 2 2 pence each provided that: might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry and purchase ordinary shares in accordance with such i the maximum number of ordinary shares that contract as if the authority conferred by this may be acquired is 89,641,002: resolution had not expired.
ii the minimum price per ordinary share that The directors believe that the proposals in may be paid for any such share excluding resolutions 1 to 11 are in the best interests of 1 expenses is 2 2 pence: and shareholders as a whole and they unanimously iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses recommend that you vote in favour of all the which may be paid for each ordinary share resolutions.
shall not be more than the higher of: A 105% of the average of the market values On behalf of the Board of such ordinary shares as derived from D C George the Daily Official List of the London Stock Company Secretary Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which 21 November 2006 the purchase is made: and Registered office: B that stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy- 3 Monkspath Hall Road back and Stabilisation Regulation EC Solihull 2273 2003 : or West Midlands, B90 4SJ b if resolution 9 is not passed its ordinary shares Registered in England and Wales No.
2562808 of 5 pence each provided that: 122 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 123 Notice of Annual General Meeting CRESTCo Limiteds specifications and must contain Notes the information required for such instructions, as 1.
A shareholder of the Company who is entitled to described in the CREST Manual.
The message, attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting may regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given vote instead of him.
A proxy does not need to be a to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be shareholder of the Company.
valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the 2.
A personalised form of proxy for use in connection Companys agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time for with the Annual General Meeting is enclosed with receipt of proxy appointments set out in paragraph 3 the document of which this notice forms part.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be do not have a personalised form of proxy and believe taken to be the time as determined by the that you should, please contact the Companys timestamp applied to the message by the CREST registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, on Applications Host from which the Companys agent 0870 889 4080 or at Computershare Investor is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST Services PLC, P. O.
Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time Road, Bristol BS99 7NH.
Completion and return of a any change of instructions to proxies appointed form of proxy will not preclude a shareholder from through CREST should be communicated to the attending and voting at the Annual General Meeting.
To appoint a proxy or proxies shareholders must CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST complete: a a form of proxy, sign it and return it, sponsors or voting service providers should note that together with the power of attorney or other authority CRESTCo Limited does not make available special if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
copy of such authority, to the Companys registrars, Normal system timings and limitations will therefore Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 3FA: or b Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST a CREST Proxy Instruction as set out in paragraph 4 member concerned to take or, if the CREST member below : or c an online proxy appointment at is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or www.
com uk voting etp you will need has appointed any voting service provider s, to your unique PIN and Shareholder Reference Number procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service printed on your personalised form of proxy, in each provider s take s such action as is necessary to case so that it is received no later than 11.00 a. m. on ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the 14 January 2007.
CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, 4.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are proxies through the CREST electronic proxy referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST appointment service may do so for the Annual Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST General Meeting and any adjournment s of the system and timings.
meeting by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy CREST sponsored members and those CREST Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation members who have appointed any voting service 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or 2001. voting service provider s, who will be able to take 5.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated the appropriate action on their behalf.
"Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made notice that only those shareholders included in the using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on CREST message a ""CREST Proxy Instruction"" must 14 January 2007 or, if the meeting is adjourned, in be properly authenticated in accordance with the register of members at 6.00 p. m. on the day 123 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 123 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 124 Notice of Annual General Meeting which is two days before the day of any adjourned meeting, will be entitled to attend and to vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that time."
Changes to entries on the share register after 6.00 p. m. on 14 January 2007 or, if the meeting is adjourned, in the register of members at 6.00 p. m. on the day which is two days before any adjourned meeting, will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Copies of the directors service contracts, the directors remuneration report and the register of directors interests are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours on any weekday excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays until the end of the Annual General Meeting and will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before and during the Annual General Meeting.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares in the Company, please forward this document to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other person through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
124 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
