87 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Advisors details and investor information Secretary and Registered Office Jon Green Avebury House, 201249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK9 1AU Company Number 05444653 www.
com Financial advisor and stockbroker JPMorgan Cazenove 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA Solicitors Slaughter and May One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY Auditor KPMG Audit Plc 8 Salisbury Square, London EC4Y 8BB Principal bankers Lloyds TSB Bank plc 25 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7HN The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 135 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3UR Registrar If you have any questions about your shareholding, please contact, in the first instance: Computershare Investor Services plc PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH Telephone 0870 702 0003 Computershare also has an internet facility whereby shareholders in Filtrona plc are able to access details of their shareholding.
You can access this service at www.
Electronic communication As an alternative to receiving documentation through the post, the Company offers shareholders the option to receive by email, a notification that shareholder documents including the Annual and Interim Reports, Notice of Shareholder Meetings, Proxy Forms etc.
are available for access on the Companys website.
If you wish to make such an election, you should register online at www.
If you have already made such an election you need take no further action.
Registration is entirely voluntary and you may request a hard copy of the shareholder documents or change your election at any time.
CREST Share Settlement System The Company entered the CREST system on listing and the ordinary shares are available for settlement in CREST.
As the membership system is voluntary, shareholders not wishing to participate can continue to hold their own share certificates.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK9 2HQ on Monday 30 April 2007 at 12 noon.
