NINETY The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the fourteenth Annual General Meeting of the members of Expro International Group PLC the Company will be held at Reading Bridge House, Reading, Berkshire RG1 8PL on Thursday 6 July 2006 at 11 a. m. for the following purposes: Ordinary business Resolution 1.
To receive the Directors report and Auditors report and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006.
To approve the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2006.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 of 7.1p net per share.
To re-elect as a Director C E Fay, whose biographical details are set out in page 18 of the Annual Report, who retires by rotation in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
To re-elect as a Director G F Coutts, whose biographical details are set out in page 18 of the Annual Report, who retires by rotation in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
To re-elect as a Director T M Lazenby, whose biographical details are set out in page 19 of the Annual Report, who retires by rotation in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
To elect as a Director J W McAlister, whose biographical details are set out in page 27 of the Annual Report, who retires in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
To re-appoint Deloitte and Touche LLP as the Companys auditors until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
To authorise the Audit committee to determine the remuneration of the Auditors, who were initially appointed on 31 July 2002.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,442,545 provided that this authority shall expire at whichever is the earlier to occur of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2007 or 31 December 2007, but the Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require the relevant securities to be alloted after expiry of this authority and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: In substitution for any other authority conferred upon the Directors, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of sections 94 2 to 94 3A of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 10 for cash as if section 89 1 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment for cash of equity securities in connection with an issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be to their existing holdings of ordinary shares but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory: b the allotment for cash otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 366,382, and shall expire on the earlier to occur of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2007 or 31 December 2007, save that the Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry of this power and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this power had not expired.
Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group NINETY-ONE Notice of Meeting continued Special business Resolution 12.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following as a special resolution: That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorise pursuant to Article 43 of the Companys Articles of Association and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the DIrectors of the Company shall determine, provided that: a the maximum number of such ordinary shares in the Company hereby authorised to be acquired shall be 7,327,633 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, respresenting approximately 10 per cent of the issued share capital as at 31 May 2006: b the minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for each such ordinary share referred to in sub-paragraph a is 10 pence: c the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for each ordinary share is the higher of: A an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the ordinary shares in the Company taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the rive business days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: and B an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share in the Company and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share in the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETS : d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual Gneral Meeting of the Company: and e the Company may enter into a contract for the purchase of such ordinary shares before the expiry of this authority which would or might be completed wholly or partly after its expiry.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following as an ordinary resolution: That the Company be authorised for the purposes of section 347C of the Act: a to make donations to EU political organisations as defined in section 347A of the Act not exceeding 5,000 in total: and b to incur EU political expenditure as defined in section 347A of the Act not exceeding 5,000 in total, during the period beginning with the date of passing of this resolution and ending at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed or twelve months after the date of the passing of this resolution, if earlier.
In any event, the aggregate amount of donations made and political expenditure incurred by the Company pursuant to this resolution shall not exceed 10,000.
By order of the Board A M Dand Secretary 30 May 2006 Registered office: Registrars: Reading Bridge House Lloyds TSB Registrars Reading The Causeway Berkshire Worthing RG1 8PL West Sussex BN99 6ZL Tel: 0118 959 1341 0870 600 3964 Fax: 0118 958 9000 Registered number 2688814 NINETY-TWO The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Notice of Meeting continued Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on 6 July 2006.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations Act 2001 and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members by 6 p. m. on 4 July 2006.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 4 p. m. on 6 July 2006 will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, articles of association or other instrument to the contrary.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use by ordinary shareholders.
To be effective, the form must be lodged together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof with the Companys Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL, at least 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Shareholders who have completed and returned forms of proxy may still attend and vote in person, should they so wish.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 July 2006 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Please bear in mind that CREST is not available on weekends or on most public holidays.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Copies of the following are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours and will be available for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting: the Register of Directors Interests together with the service contracts of the Directors with the Company and its subsidiaries of more than one year duration.
The Company occupies one floor of a multi story block and hence has no available parking on site.
The following map below shows details of the two local public metered car parking areas within a short walk of the offices.
Expro International Group PLC Reading Bridge House 4th Floor Reading Bridge Reading RG1 8PL Tel: 0118 959 1341 From Railway Station or Heathrow From the M4, Exit Junction 10 Bus Link through station concourse.
A329M last exit left Up escalator, walkway over railway Follow signs for Reading Town Centre.
Turn right at the lights follow signs to to Station Car Park.
Over River bridge pass Prudential HQ.
Ground Floor, follow car park signs Right at next roundabout.
Next left intor Hills Meadow Car Park across bridge to exit at roundabout.
From the M4, Exit Junction 11 Follow A33 Reading Town Centre.
Keep on A33 into town centre.
Turn first left at roundabout under flyover onto slip road, keep straight on dual carriageway.
Turn right at next roundabout, straight over next roundabout, next left into Hills Meadow Car Park across bridge.
Expro International Group PLC Reading Bridge House Reading Berkshire RG1 8PL United Kingdom Tel 44 118 959 1341 Fax 44 118 958 9000 www.
com This report has been entirely produced on fully recyclable paper made from chlorine free wood fibres from sustainable forests
