Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1 significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modied to include the revaluation of certain xed asset investments, and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year with the exception of the adoption of FRS 17 Retirement benets, FRS 20 Share-based payments, FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date, FRS 23 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, FRS 25 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation and FRS 26 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, the impact of which is disclosed in note 5.
Fixed assets and depreciation Tangible xed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off all tangible xed assets on a straight line basis, except for land, over their estimated useful lives using the following rates: Freehold buildings: 2%, Plant and equipment: 5% 33%, Long leasehold buildings: 2%, Motor vehicles: 25%, Short leasehold buildings: Period of the lease.
Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments are stated at valuation, less provision for impairment where appropriate.
For those investments in subsidiaries acquired for consideration including the issue of shares qualifying for merger relief, cost is measured by reference to the nominal value only of the shares issued.
The investment is then revalued to reect the fair value of the consideration, the gain being taken to the revaluation reserve.
Investments are revalued every year to a directors valuation, with the surplus or deficit on book value being transferred to the revaluation reserve, except that a deficit in excess of any previously recognised surplus relating to the same investment is charged to the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The companys activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The company uses derivative financial instruments primarily forward foreign currency contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency transactions.
The significant interest rate risk arises from bank loans.
The company converts a proportion of its oating rate debt to xed rates.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ows are recognised directly in reserves and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the profit and loss account as they arise.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis, at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Both current and deferred tax are measured using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on a non-discounted basis in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely that not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
