Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General Information and Accounting Policies Findel plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered ofce is given on page 9.
The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5, and in the Chairmans Statement and Finance Directors Review on pages 2 to 8.
These financial statements are presented in sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
IFRS 1 First time adoption of International Reporting Standards permits those companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
The group has taken advantage of the following exemptions: IFRS requires the tracking of all cumulative foreign exchange adjustments taken to reserves.
These amounts are reversed upon any subsequent disposal of the business to which it relates.
The cumulative translational foreign exchange difference that has been taken to reserves for foreign operations to the transition date has been assumed to be zero.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses at the date of transition on the valuation of post-employment benefit assets and liabilities have been recognised as an adjustment to equity.
The acquisition accounting of business combinations completed prior to 30 September 2000 has not been restated.
The net book value of goodwill at this date has been treated as deemed cost of goodwill under IFRS.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, there are a number of Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective which have not been applied in these financial statements, the most significant of which are as follows: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the group except for the additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments required by IFRS 7, which comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs for the first time.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRSs are given in note 37.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They cease to be consolidated from the date that the group no longer has control.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The financial statements of all subsidiaries are prepared to the same reporting date as the parent company.
Associates Associates are entities over which the group has significant inuence but not control.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the Investee but is not control or joint control over these policies.
The equity method is used to account for investments in associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The groups share of net assets of its associates, loans, and non-equity investments made to associates is included in the group balance sheet.
The groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in equity is recognised in the groups equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
The carrying amount if an investment in an associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying value whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
