Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the fty-first annual general meeting of the company will be held at The Craiglands Hotel, Cowpasture Road, Ilkley, West Yorkshire, LS29 8RQ on Monday 3 July 2006at 2.00 p. m. for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1.
To receive and adopt the statement of accounts of the company for the year ended 31 March 2006together with the directors and auditors reports thereon.
To receive and adopt the board report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2006.
To approve a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006.
To re-elect Mr P E Jolly as a director.
To re-elect Mr G P Craig as a director.
To re-elect Mr J M F Padovan as a director.
To re-elect Mr D A Johnson as a director.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the company for the period to the conclusion of the next annual general meeting and to authorise the directors to x their remuneration.
To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following as an ordinary resolution: That the Findel Performance Share Plan 2006 the Plan, the principal terms of which are summarised in Appendix I and the rules of which are produced to the meeting and signed by the chairman for the purposes of identication, is approved and the directors are authorised to: a make such modications to the Plan as they may consider appropriate to take account of the requirements of the UK Listing Authority and best practice and to adopt the Plan as so modied and to do all such other acts and things as they may consider necessary or expedient to implement the Plan: and b establish further plans for the benefit of employees outside of the UK, based on the Plan but modied to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities law in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual and overall participation contained in the Plan.
To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following as an ordinary resolution: That pursuant to S. 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the company to allot Relevant Securities within the meaning of S. 80 of the said Act in respect of and up to an aggregate nominal amount of 501,074 representing 11.79% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company at 25 May 2006until the earlier of the date and time of the next annual general meeting or 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution: and so that the company may before that date and time make an offer or agreement which would or might require Relevant Securities to be allotted after such time and the directors may allot Relevant Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
This resolution asks shareholders to renew the directors general authority to allot unissued shares, should it be desirable to do so.
In accordance with relevant guidelines this authority is to be limited to the maximum nominal amount of 501,074 representing the companys authorised but unissued share capital as at 25 May 2006.
The company holds no treasury shares within the meaning of S. 162A of the said Act as at 25 May 2006.
The directors have no present plans to issue shares using this authority.
Subject to resolution 10 being passed, to consider and, if thought t, to pass the following as a special resolution: That, pursuant to S. 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the directors be and are hereby authorised: i subject to the passing of the previous resolution, to allot Equity Securities within the meaning of S. 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the previous resolution: and ii to sell Equity Securities within the meaning of S. 94 of the said Act for cash which before the sale were held by the company as treasury shares within the meaning of S. 162A of the said Act www.
co. uk 71 Notice of Annual General Meeting as if sub-section 1 of S. 89 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment PROVIDED that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment or sale of Equity Securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the Equity Securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange, and or b to the allotment or sale otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of Equity Securities in respect of and up to an aggregate nominal amount of 212,446 representing 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company at 25 May 2006 and shall expire on the earlier of the date and time of the next annual general meeting or 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution: save that the company may before that date and time make an offer or agreement which would or might require Equity Securities to be allotted or sold after such time and in such event the directors may allot or sell Equity Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
If the directors wish to allot unissued shares or sell shares from treasury for cash, the Companies Act 1985 requires that these shares are offered first to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This is known as shareholders pre-emption rights.
There may be occasions however when, in order to act in the best interest of the company, the directors need the exibility to finance business opportunities as they arise.
Therefore this resolution asks shareholders to renew the directors authority to issue or sell from treasury a limited number of shares for cash, up to a nominal amount of 212,446 equivalent to 5% of the companys issued share capital at 25 May 2006, or pursuant to a rights issue, without the shares first being offered to shareholders.
Resolution 11 will be proposed as a special resolution.
The authority contained in Resolution 11, will expire on the earlier date of the next annual general meeting or 15 months after passing of such resolution.
To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following as a special resolution: That, in accordance with Regulation 52 of the Articles of Association, a general authority is hereby given for the purposes of S. 166 of the Companies Act 1985 for one or more market purchases as dened in S. 163 of the said Act by the company of any of its own shares subject to the following restrictions but otherwise unconditionally: 1.
The maximum aggregate number of shares to be so acquired shall not exceed 8,497,851 ordinary shares of 5p each with a nominal value of 424,892 representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company at 25 May 2006.
Shares may only be purchased at a price per share exclusive of expenses no higher than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the ordinary shares in the capital of the company, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial list, for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase but the minimum price that may be paid for such shares shall be the nominal value of 5p per share exclusive of expenses.
Unless previously renewed, varied, or revoked, this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company, but the company may before such expiry make contracts for such purposes which would or might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
Under the terms of the Companies Act 1985 and its Articles of Association, the company has power to purchase its own shares provided that this power has first been sanctioned by shareholders.
The directors consider that in certain circumstances it may be beneficial for the company to purchase its own shares, for example, to return surplus cash to shareholders and to enhance earnings per share and or net assets per share.
This resolution asks shareholders to authorise the company to make purchases up to 8,497,851 ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company as at 25 May 2006 at a minimum price of 5p per share and a maximum price of 5% above the average price of the middle market quotations of the ordinary shares in the capital of the company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the 5 business days prior to the purchase.
The total number of shares that may be issued on the exercise of outstanding options as at 25 May 2006 was 580,082 which represents approximately 0.68% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the company were to purchase shares up to the maximum permitted by this resolution, the proportion of shares subject to outstanding options would represent approximately 0.76% of the resultant issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
72 The purchase price for the company to purchase its own shares may only be satisfied out of distributable reserves, or the proceeds of a new issue of shares made for the purpose.
Purchases will be made on the London Stock Exchange, and daily notication of any purchases will be made to a Regulatory Information Service.
Full details of purchases made during the year will also appear in the companys annual report published in 2007.
The fact that the directors are seeking this authority should not be taken as an indication that the company will purchase its own shares at any particular price or indeed at all and the directors would only consider making purchases if they believed that such purchases would be in the best interests of the shareholders generally, having regard to the effect on earnings per share.
The directors have no immediate intention to exercise the proposed authority to purchase shares.
The Companies Act 1985 permits companies to hold any shares acquired by way of market purchases in treasury rather than having to cancel them.
The company would consider holding any of its own shares purchased under the authority granted by Resolution 12 as treasury shares within the meaning of S. 162A of the said Act.
This would give the company the ability to re-issue treasury shares as and when required quickly and cost effectively and would provide the company with additional exibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on shares while held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to those shares.
Resolution 12 will be proposed as a special resolution.
The authority contained in Resolution 12 will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting or 15 months after the passing of such resolution.
By order of the board I J Bolton Secretary 25 May 2006 www.
co. uk 73 Notes a A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his place.
A proxy need not also be a member.
Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting should he she so decide.
b To be valid at the meeting, the enclosed Form of Proxy and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or notarially certied copy of such power or authority, must be deposited at the ofces of Lloyds TSR Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
c Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the companys registered ofce during normal business hours of any weekday public holidays excluded : i the directors service contracts: ii the register of directors interested in the share capital of the company: iii A copy of the draft rules of the Findel Performance Share Plan 2006.
Such documents will also be available for inspection at the place of the annual general meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting as well as during the meeting.
d Only those member registered in the Register of Members of the company 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting.
CREST transactions after that time will not affect entitlements to attend and vote at the meeting and no transfers of securities in certicated form will be registered from that time until the close of the meeting.
e Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting to be held on 3 July 2006 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless or whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
74 Appendix I Summary of the principal features of the Findel Performance Share Plan 2006 the Plan Operation The Remuneration Committee of the board of directors of the company the committee will supervise the operation of the Plan.
Eligibility Any employee including an executive director of the company or any of its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the committee.
Grant of awards Awards granted under the Plan can take one of two forms either: i conditional allocations, where a participant will receive shares in the company automatically on the vesting of his award: or ii nil or nominal cost options, where a participant can decide when to exercise his award and receive shares during a limited period of time after it has vested.
Although it does not currently intend to do so, committee may decide that cash-based awards of an equivalent value to share-based awards should be granted or that share-based awards should be satisfied in cash whether in whole or in part.
The Committee may decide that awards should be granted within the six week period following the approval of the Plan by shareholders and thereafter within the six week period following the companys announcement of its results for any period.
Awards may also be granted when exceptional circumstances exist that the committee considers justify the granting of awards at that time.
It is intended that initial awards in respect of the 2006 financial year will be made shortly following shareholder approval of the Plan.
No awards may be granted more than 10 years after the approval of the Plan by shareholders.
Awards are not transferable, except on death.
Individual limit An individual may not receive awards in any financial year over shares having a market value in excess of 150% of their base salary, other than in exceptional circumstances e. g. recruitment where the limit is 200% of base salary.
It is currently intended that initial awards will be granted over shares with a market value no greater than 125% of base salary.
Vesting of awards Awards will normally vest following the third anniversary of grant once the committee has determined the extent to which the applicable performance conditions see below have been satisfied and provided that the participant is still employed in the group.
Performance conditions All awards granted to executive directors will be subject to performance conditions set by the committee each year that reect the companys performance over a single xed period of at least three years the performance period which would typically commence on the first day of the financial year in which the award is granted.
Different performance conditions may apply to awards granted to less senior executives.
The performance conditions for initial awards will be structured such that vesting of half of an award will be determined by the companys normalised earnings per share EPS growth in excess of ination RPI, over the performance period.
EPS growth of the company over Vesting percentage of 50% of the shares the performance period subject to an award Less than RPI 12% 0% RPI 12% 30% RPI 27% 100% Between RPI 12% and RPI 27% Between 30% and 100% pro-rata on a straight-line basis Vesting of the other half of the award will determined by the companys performance in terms of its total shareholder return TSR, as measured against the TSR of the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index as at the date of grant but excluding investment trusts the comparator group, over the performance period.
co. uk 75 Appendix I TSR ranking of the company compared to the Vesting percentage of 50% of the shares comparator group over the performance period subject to an award Below median ranking 0% Median ranking 30% Upper quartile ranking 100% Between median and upper quartile ranking Between 30% and 100% pro-rata on a straight-line basis Each companys TSR will be averaged over a three month period immediately prior to both the beginning and the end of the performance period.
The committee shall have discretion to scale back the vesting of awards below that indicated by the TSR condition above if in its opinion the TSR performance of the company is not reective of underlying financial performance.
The committee may amend the performance conditions applying to existing awards at any given time if an event occurs which causes the committee to consider it appropriate to amend them e. g. to take account of technical changes such as changes in accounting standards, provided that, in the opinion of the committee, the amendment is required and the performance conditions are not materially less challenging to achieve than those originally set.
The committee will review the performance conditions each time awards are granted and may impose different performance conditions for awards granted in subsequent years, provided that, in the opinion of the committee, the different performance conditions, in respect of awards to executive directors, are not materially less challenging than those originally set.
Leaving employment As a general rule, an award will lapse upon a participant leaving the employment of the group.
However, if a participant leaves employment by reason of death, injury, disability, redundancy, ill-health, retirement with the agreement of their employer, sale of their employing company or business out of the group or for any other reason as determined by the committee, then the committee can decide that either the award will vest on the normal vesting date or the date of cessation.
In determining the level of vesting the committee will consider the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied at the relevant time.
Following cessation of employment, the size of the award will then be reduced pro-rata based upon the period of time that has elapsed from the date of grant to the date of cessation, relative to the original three year vesting period, unless the committee decides that it would be inappropriate to apply such a reduction.
Corporate events In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding up of the company not being an internal corporate reorganisation all awards will vest early to the extent that the performance conditions have, in the opinion of the committee, been satisfied at that time or would have been satisfied had the performance period run its full course.
The committee will also consider the time that has elapsed since the grant of awards in relation to the original vesting period and will retain discretion to scale back the awards on a pro-rata basis.
At the discretion of the committee, awards may also vest on the same basis as above, if a demerger, special dividend or other similar event is proposed which, in the opinion of the committee, would affect the market price of the shares to a material extent.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation, awards will be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding company, unless the committee decides that awards should vest on the same basis as would apply in the case of a takeover.
Overall Plan limits The Plan may operate over new issue shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the market.
In any ten calendar year period the company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than: a 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company under the Plan or any other employee share plan adopted by the company: and b 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company under the Plan or any other executive share plan adopted by the company.
Shares held in treasury will count as new issue shares for the purpose of these limits, unless institutional investor bodies decide otherwise.
76 Contents Participants rights Awards will not confer any shareholder rights until the awards have vested and participants have received their shares.
Participants will be entitled to receive a payment in cash and or shares on or shortly following the vesting of their awards, of an amount equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares between the time when the awards were granted and the time when they vest.
Variation of capital In the event of any variation of the companys share capital or in the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar event which materially affects the market price of the shares, the committee may make such adjustments as it considers appropriate to the number of shares subject to an award and or to the exercise price payable if any.
Rights attaching to shares Any shares allotted when an award vests or for an award structured as an option, when it is exercised will rank equally with all other shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
Alterations The committee may, at any time, amend the provisions of the Plan in any respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendment that is to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits on the issue of shares or the transfer of shares held in treasury, the basis for determining a participant's entitlement to and the terms of, the shares to be acquired and 1.
Consolidated Statement of the adjustment of awards.
Recognised Income and The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to 2.
Chairmans Statement Expense benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the group.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 12.
Company Balance Sheet Directors Remuneration 64.
Corporate Social Financial Statements Responsibility 71.
Independent Auditors Report General Meeting 30.
co. uk 77 FINDEL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 FINDEL PLC A nnual Report & Accounts 2006 FINDEL PLC Burley House, Bradford Road, Burley in Wharfedale, West Yorkshire LS29 7DZ
