98 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting Wednesday 2nd May 2007 at 11.00 am in The Club Room, an offer or agreement made by the Company during the Prescribed The Scotsman Hotel, 20 North Bridge, Edinburgh EH1 1YT Period which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of the Prescribed Period.
PLEASE NOTE that the sixteenth Annual General Meeting of FORTH PORTS PLC will be held in The Club Room, The Scotsman Hotel, 10.
To consider and if thought t pass the following Special Resolution: 20 North Bridge, Edinburgh EH1 1YT at 11.00am on Wednesday 2nd May 2007, for the following purposes: THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with Section 166 of Ordinary Business the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make one or more market 1.
To receive the Directors Report and accounts for the year ended purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act on 31st December 2006.
The London Stock Exchange of Ordinary Shares of 50p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares upon and subject 2.
To declare a final dividend of 30.2p per Ordinary Share in the capital to the following conditions: of the Company.
i the maximum number of such Ordinary Shares hereby authorised 3.
To re-elect Mr. C. G. Hammond as a Director.
to be purchased is 6.838 million shares representing 15% of the Companys issued share capital : 4.
To re-elect Mr. P. D. Glading as a Director.
ii the minimum price which may be paid by the Company for each 5.
To re-elect Mr. E. G. F. Brown as a Director.
Ordinary Share is 50 pence exclusive of any tax and expenses : 6.
To receive and consider the Directors Remuneration Report for the iii the maximum price exclusive of any tax and expenses which year ended 31st December 2006. may be paid by the Company for an Ordinary Share is an amount not more than 5% above the average of the middle market values 7.
To ratify the re-appointment of  LLP as for an Ordinary Share taken from The London Stock Exchange auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to agree Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding their remuneration.
the day on which the Ordinary Share is purchased: Special Business iv unless previously revoked or varied the authority hereby conferred 8.
To consider and if thought t to pass the following Ordinary shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting Resolution: of the Company to be held in 2008 or on 1st August 2008, whichever shall be the earlier: THAT for the purposes of Article 5 of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and v the Company may enter into a contract or contracts for the unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company purchase of Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the conferred before the expiry of this authority which would Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6.2m or might be completed wholly or partly after the expiry of the Section 80 Amount during the period expiring on the date of such authority and may make a purchase or purchases the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract or of this Resolution, or on 1st August 2008 whichever is the earlier, contracts notwithstanding such expiry: and the Prescribed Period and at any time after that pursuant to any offer or agreement made by the Company during the Prescribed vi any Ordinary Shares so purchased shall be cancelled or if Period which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted the Directors so determine and subject to the provision of after the expiry of the Prescribed Period.
the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 and any applicable regulations of the United 9.
To consider and if thought t pass the following Special Resolution: Kingdom Listing Authority, to be held as Treasury Shares.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 8 above, for the purposes By order of the Board of Article 5 of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Morag McNeill Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning Group Company Secretary of Section 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority 1 Prince of Wales Dock conferred by Resolution 8 as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of Leith the said Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that Edinburgh this power shall be limited: EH6 7DX 4th April 2007 i to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a Rights Issue as dened in Article 5 : and Copies of the service contracts between the Company and the Executive Directors and of the letters of appointment between the Company and the Non-Executive Directors will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company on any weekday, except Saturdays and ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i public holidays, during normal business hours until 1st May 2007.
They will also be available above of equity securities and or the transfer of shares out of for inspection at the place of the meeting from 10.45am until the meeting ends.
Treasury following purchase pursuant to Resolution 10 vi The register of Directors shareholdings will be available for inspection at the place of the following up to an aggregate nominal value of 1.14m the meeting, from the beginning of the meeting until it ends.
Section 89 Amount : A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll to vote instead of him or her: a proxy need not also be a member.
To and shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of be effective proxies must be lodged at the ofces of the Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB the Company after the passing of this Resolution, or on 1st August Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6ZR not later than 48 hours before 2008 whichever is the earlier, the Prescribed Period save that after the time of the meeting.
such expiry, the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of Designed and produced by Tayburn Head Ofce Forth Ports PLC, 1 Prince of Wales Dock, Edinburgh EH6 7DX Telephone 0131 555 8700 Facsimile 0131 553 7462 www.
