100 Notes to the parent company financial statements continued a Significant accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting In accordance with its treasury policy, the company only holds or issues derivative financial instruments to manage the groups exposure to financial risk, not for trading purposes.
Such financial risk includes the interest risk on the groups variable-rate borrowings and foreign exchange risk on transactions, on the translation of the groups results and on the translation of the groups net assets measured in foreign currencies, to the extent that these are not matched by foreign currency borrowings.
The company manages these risks through a range of derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, fixed rate agreements, forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet as financial assets or liabilities at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged as described below: Fair value hedge The change in the fair value of both the hedging instrument and the related portion of the hedged item is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Cash flow hedge The change in the fair value of the portion of the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity and subsequently recycled to the income statement when the hedged cash flow impacts the income statement.
The ineffective portion of the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Leases Assets held under finance leases are included as tangible fixed assets at their capital value and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic life.
The capital element of future rentals is included within creditors and finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease.
Annual rentals payable or receivable under operating leases are charged or credited to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Foreign currencies The financial statements of the company are presented in sterling, its functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than sterling are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities which are denominated in other currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value which are denominated in other currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost denominated in other currencies are not retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the profit and loss account.
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all material timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where their recovery is considered more likely than not in that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Pensions The company participates in multi-employer pension schemes in the UK, which provide benefits based on final pensionable pay.
The company is unable to identify its share of the schemes assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis.
In accordance with FRS 17, the company treats the schemes as if they were defined contribution schemes and recognises charges as and when contributions are due to the scheme.
Details of the schemes are included in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
