Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 33rd Annual General Meeting of the members of GCap Media plc the Company will be held on Monday 24 July 2006 at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One New Change, London EC4M 9QQ at 2.30pm for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS To consider and, if thought fit, pass resolutions 1-9 inclusive which will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions of the Company: 1.
To receive and adopt the annual accounts for the financial year 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006 and the associated reports of the Directors and Auditors.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006.
To approve the payment of a final dividend of 6.15p per Ordinary Share recommended by the Directors.
To re-elect as a Director Wendy Pallot who retires by rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
To re-elect as a Director Patricia Hodgson who retires by rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
To re-elect as a Director Peter W Williams who retires by rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
To elect as a Director Steve Orchard who having been appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting retires in accordance with the Articles of Association.
That KPMG Audit Plc be and are hereby appointed as the Auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
That the Directors be and are hereby authorised to determine the remuneration of the Auditors of the Company.
SPECIAL BUSINESS To consider and, if thought fit, pass the resolutions set out below of which resolutions 10 and 11 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 12 and 13 will be proposed as Special Resolutions of the Company.
Please see the explanatory note at Appendix 1 of this notice in relation to resolution 11.
That: i for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that section up to a maximum nominal amount of 878,774, such authority to expire on 24 October 2007 unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting : ii the Company may make an offer or agreement before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement: and iii this authority shall replace all existing authorities conferred on the Directors in respect of the allotment of relevant securities to the extent that the same have not been previously utilised.
That the amendments to the Capital Radio Savings-Related Share Option Scheme adopted by resolution of the Company on 11 January 1995 with authority renewed by resolution of the Company on 25 January 2005 the SAYE Scheme, such amendments having the effect of: i amending the name of the SAYE Scheme to the GCAP Media Plc Savings-Related Share Option Scheme formerly the Capital Radio Savings-Related Share Option Scheme : and ii reducing the qualifying period of employment for compulsory eligibility in the SAYE Scheme from 12 months to six months: but iii including a discretion for the Directors to allow persons who do not meet such eligibility criteria to be eligible in the SAYE Scheme: and iv making small housekeeping changes to the rules of the SAYE Scheme, in each case shown in blackline in a version of the rules of the SAYE Scheme currently on display at the Companys registered office be and are hereby adopted by the Company, but shall not take effect unless and until they are approved by HM Revenue & Customs.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 109 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Special Resolutions 12.
That: i subject to and conditional upon the passing of resolution number 10 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 23 June 2006 the section 80 resolution, the Directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred by the section 80 resolution or any renewal thereof as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities, whether by way of rights issue, open offer or otherwise, to ordinary shareholders and holders of any other shares or securities of the Company that by their terms are entitled to participate in such rights issue, open offer or otherwise where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders and such holders of other shares or securities are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them or into which their shares or securities are to be deemed converted in calculating the extent of their participation but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or stock exchange in, any territory: and b to the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above up to an aggregate nominal value of 206,061: ii this power expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting following the date of this resolution or 24 October 2007, whichever is the earlier, unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in General Meeting : iii this power shall enable the Company to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of this power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the expiry of this power and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement: and iv this power shall replace all existing powers granted to the Directors to allot equity securities as if the said section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to the extent that the same have not been previously utilised.
That, pursuant to Article 9 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company provided that: i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares authorised to be purchased is 16,484,900: ii the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is 2.5p exclusive of expenses: iii the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average closing middle-market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day of purchase: and b from 1 July 2005, an amount equal to the highest of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid as derived from the Stock Exchange Trading System SETS : iv this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting following the date of this resolution or 24 January 2008, whichever is the earlier: and v the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares prior to the expiry of this authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and the Company may make purchases of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board Richard Manning Company Secretary 30 Leicester Square London WC2H 7LA 23 June 2006 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 110 NOTES 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his or her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be effective the accompanying Form of Proxy should be lodged together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified or office copy of such power or authority at the registered office of the Company not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the Meeting or adjourned meeting.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not affect the right of a member to attend and vote in person at the Meeting.
In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those members registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm two days before the AGM shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their respective names at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on Monday 24 July 2006 and any adjournment thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST-sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Lloyds TSB Registrars ID 7RA01 by no later than 2.30pm on Saturday 22 July 2006.
No message received through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which our registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider take such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid CREST Proxy instructions in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 S a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Copies of the Directors service contracts with the Company and the rules of the SAYE Scheme will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting itself and will be available for inspection at the Meeting and for a period of 15 minutes before it commences.
The register of Directors share interests is available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 111 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting Explanatory information in relation to Resolution 11: SAYE Scheme 1.
The amendments to the rules of the SAYE Scheme are shown in blackline in a version of the rules which is currently on display at the Companys registered office.
See paragraph 4 of the notes on page 111 for further information.
The change of name of the SAYE Scheme is to reflect the Companys change of name from Capital Radio plc to GCAP Media plc on 9 May 2005.
This amendment is of no substantive effect.
The reasons for the reduction in the length of the qualifying period of employment for compulsory eligibility in the SAYE Scheme are two-fold: i to more closely align the Companys all-employee incentive policy with current market practice: and ii to entitle a greater number of the groups employees and full-time directors to qualify for compulsory eligibility in the SAYE Scheme, thereby widening the maximum potential take-up of the SAYE Scheme across the Group.
A Directors discretion to allow those outside of the compulsory eligibility criteria to participate in the SAYE Scheme has been added to allow the SAYE Scheme to be operated more flexibly.
For example, it would permit the Directors to allow an employee or full-time director to participate even though they had been employed for less than six months or where their tax position is such that they would not benefit from the advantageous tax National Insurance contributions treatment afforded to option schemes of this type, but where, it is wished to allow such person to participate in the same equity related benefits enjoyed by their colleagues.
Both of the amendments referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 above are contained in the definition of Eligible Employee which appears in Rule 1 A of the rules of the SAYE Scheme.
The other amendments to the rules of the SAYE Scheme are for housekeeping purposes and have no substantive effect, save for the amendment to Rule 10 C in relation to schemes of arrangement compromise, so that the exercise trigger in that Rule matches the point at which the scheme of arrangement compromise would take effect under the relevant Company Law provisions.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 112 Glossary of terms Developing an integrated Creating strong national portfolio of local and networks to challenge national brands the BBC DRDB The Digital Radio Development Bureau RAJAR Radio Joint Audience Research RAJAR is a company specifically established to manage the UKs agreed system of radio audience measurement.
It is jointly owned by the RadioCentre on behalf of commercial radio companies and by the BBC.
Reach Weekly The number in thousands or as a percentage of the UK area population who listen to a station for at least five minutes in the course of an average week.
Share of Listening The percentage of total listening time accounted for by a station either in the UK or a particular area.
Total Hours UK radio industry overview GCap Media Total amount of time spent listening to a given station by all individuals who listen to it in an average week.
UK radio industry Commercial radio groups Digital listening BBC vs Commercial Radio Brand portfolio The One Network, including Xfm broadcasts nationally on Choice FM is Londons urban Capital Radio, offers national scale FM in London, Manchester and music station, having successfully whilst keeping one to one local central Scotland as well as via established itself as the No.
1 for GCap Chryalis GMG Actual BBC connections.
A network of 39 DAB, multi-channel TV and online.
Hip-Hop and RnB in the city.
EMap UTV SMG Forecast Commercial local stations each giving listeners Xfm focuses on the best new Broadcasting in London on FM 100 398 vibrant, engaging, quality output, music from the likes of the Kaiser and across the UK on DAB, digital 4.70 400 20 5 66 62 featuring high profile presenters, Chiefs, Hard-Fi and the Arctic TV and online, its unique music 342 16.2 50 celebrity guests, local importance Monkeys.
Listeners mirror the policy offers an inspiring mix of 4 300 15 and the best contemporary music.
stations personality: young, urban music: from southern hip- 11.4 0 3 2.72 articulate, opinion forming and hop outfit Outkast to the dancehall 200 10 100 A number of the One Network independent individuals.
2 6.1 stations are also available on DAB.
119 55 1.29 100 5 43 50 3.4 1 56 2.9 2.6 0.43 0.14 0 0 0 0 Key All BBC Comm GCap 02 03 04 05 06 FM coverage Key Key DAB digital coverage DAB digital coverage FM coverage FM and DAB digital FM and DAB digital Core is GCap Medias youth music Classic FM is the UKs only 100% The Capital Gold Network service, broadcasting nationally classical musical radio station.
broadcasts on AM, DAB and on DAB and digital TV.
The station Its the biggest commercial radio online playing hits from the 60s GCap Chryalis UTV Actual BBC is driven by text requests and station in the country and is to the 90s.
Capital Life is a DAB EMap GMG Other Forecast Commercial plays the freshest new music broadcast nationally on FM, digital station playing classic hits.
100 from artists like McFly, Nelly and DAB, digital TV and online.
71 Capital Life is a stylish, upbeat, 20 50 60 Natasha Bedingfield.
17 music-led station playing the 40.03 50 40 biggest classic hits together with 15 29.42 the best of today.
4.06 23.1 0 11.6 0 0 All BBC Comm GCap 04 05 06 07 08 09 Key Key including Planet Rock which is a joint venture Key FM coverage Capital Life DAB digital coverage with MUKBL Radio Services Limited DAB digital coverage FM and DAB digital Capital Gold AM and DAB digital Planet Rock is the UKs rock Chill is a new station broadcasting Broadcasting on FM and DAB the specialist broadcasting nationally on GCap Medias local DAB Digital Century FM Network plays a feel on DAB and digital TV platforms.
The station good music from the 80s, 90s GCap Chryalis Wireless 2004 TV Direct Mail Radio Cinema The station plays great music from plays relaxing and chill out tunes and now.
Its radio that you just EMap GMG Other 2005 Press Outdoor Internet artists like Led Zeppelin, Thin Lizzy from artists such as Royksopp, have to sing along to!
Desirable 2.6 1.4 and the Doors and is targeted at Zero 7 and Moby.
competitions, big personalities 381 400 25 This report is printed on Cyclus Offset 100% recycled stock, made by 5.5 men in their 30s, 40s and 50s.
and engaging phone-ins make it 335 20.1 the Dalam Paper Mill, the only mill in the world that operates on a 100% Planet Rock is a joint venture with the perfect station for 25-44 year 20 300 MUKBL Radio Services Limited.
old listeners who are down to earth recycling basis.
13.1 6.6 200 10.6 8.7 10 Each and every fibre of Cyclus paper comes from waste paper collected 115 8.1 100 5.4 5.2 5.5 from consumers.
All waste resulting from the production process is recycled 5 3.4 17.0 46 2.5 11.1 to create a wide range of products including fertiliser, cement and energy.
0 0 30.9 24.3 The production process itself is ecologically sound: water is recycled and All BBC Comm GCap All Digital DAB DTV Internet Key returned to the river cleaner than it arrives, no environmentally damaging Key Key FM coverage Source: RAJAR 2005 Platform Study chemicals are used for bleaching and the energy used comes from natural gas.
DAB digital coverage DAB digital coverage FM and DAB digital In addition, all of these stations are available online and, except for Capital Life, are broadcast across the UK on digital television.
Designed and produced by www.
com GCap Media also broadcasts childrens stations Capital Disney and Fun Radio on DAB, digital TV and online.
At a glance GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 to create On track long-term value by fully realising our opportunities How we will create long-term value: Deliver audience growth Attract listeners from the BBC Drive new revenue opportunities Contents 01 Commercially attractive audience 02 Headline figures 03 Chairmans statement www.
com 05 Chief Executives Q&As 08 What drives our business 09 Opportunities Creating radios digital future 17 Directors annual report to shareholders contents page Annual Report 2005 06
