Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies GCap Media plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity-account the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 96 to 105.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 October 2004 for the purposes of the transition to Adopted IFRSs.
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 28.
Transition to Adopted IFRSs The Group is preparing its financial statements in accordance with Adopted IFRSs for the first time and consequently has applied IFRS 1.
An explanation of how the transition to Adopted IFRSs has affected the reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group is provided in note 29.
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRSs in the transition period.
The following exemptions have been taken in these financial statements: Business combinations Business combinations that took place prior to 1 October 2004 have not been restated: Fair value or revaluation as deemed cost At the date of transition, UK GAAP cost has been used as deemed cost for properties previously measured at fair value: Employee benefits All cumulative actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans have been recognised in equity at 1 October 2004: and Share-based payment GCap Media has elected only to apply IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment to equity instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 and had not vested at 1 January 2005.
Measurement convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as available-for-sale are stated at their fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity-accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of jointly controlled entities on an equity-accounted basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations, and of related qualifying hedges, are taken directly to the translation reserve.
They are released to the income statement upon disposal.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 66
