Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies GCap Media plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity-account the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 96 to 105.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 October 2004 for the purposes of the transition to Adopted IFRSs.
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 28.
Transition to Adopted IFRSs The Group is preparing its financial statements in accordance with Adopted IFRSs for the first time and consequently has applied IFRS 1.
An explanation of how the transition to Adopted IFRSs has affected the reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group is provided in note 29.
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRSs in the transition period.
The following exemptions have been taken in these financial statements: Business combinations Business combinations that took place prior to 1 October 2004 have not been restated: Fair value or revaluation as deemed cost At the date of transition, UK GAAP cost has been used as deemed cost for properties previously measured at fair value: Employee benefits All cumulative actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans have been recognised in equity at 1 October 2004: and Share-based payment GCap Media has elected only to apply IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment to equity instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 and had not vested at 1 January 2005.
Measurement convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as available-for-sale are stated at their fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity-accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of jointly controlled entities on an equity-accounted basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations, and of related qualifying hedges, are taken directly to the translation reserve.
They are released to the income statement upon disposal.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 66 1 Accounting policies continued Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group The Group has adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 from its date of transition, 1 October 2004.
Following the adoption of IAS 32, financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity i. e. forming part of shareholders funds only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: a they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group: and b where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called-up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance expenses.
Finance payments associated with financial instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
Investments in debt and equity securities Other investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity in the fair value reserve, except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses.
When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss.
Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases.
Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings.
Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Lease payments are accounted for as described below.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as follows: Freehold buildings 2%-4% per annum: Long leasehold 2%-6% per annum: Short leasehold over term of lease or where lease is renewable, 5% per annum: Transmitters 5% per annum: Fixtures and technical equipment 10%-33% per annum: and Motor vehicles 20%-33% per annum.
Intangible assets and goodwill Subject to the transitional relief in IFRS 1, all business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 October 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired.
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the associate.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004, goodwill is included at 1 October 2004 on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP, which was broadly comparable save that only separable intangibles were recognised and goodwill was amortised.
On transition, no items have been recognised as other intangibles under Adopted IFRSs and been separately accounted for with appropriate adjustments against goodwill and amortisation of goodwill has ceased as required by IFRS 1.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 67 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Expenditure on research activities and on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The useful lives for each major class of intangible asset are as follows: Licences 6.5 years to 20 years: and Customer relationships 1 year.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material less impairment losses.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the statement of cash flows.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at their nominal amount.
Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cashgenerating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill was tested for impairment as at 1 October 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs, even though no indication of impairment existed.
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss even though the financial asset has not been derecognised.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in profit or loss is the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the Groups investments in receivables carried at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets.
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Reversals of impairment An impairment loss in respect of a receivable carried at amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed through profit or loss.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist and there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 68 1 Accounting policies continued Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Employee benefits Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets at bid price is deducted.
The liability discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA creditrated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses as at 1 October 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs, were recognised.
In respect of actuarial gains and losses that arise subsequent to 1 October 2004 the Group recognises them in the period they occur directly into equity through the statement of recognised income and expense as the Group has elected to early-adopt the amendment to IAS 19 from transition date instead of from its required effective date of 1 January 2006.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the asset recognised is limited to the net total past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Share-based payment transactions The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the ultimate parent company: these awards are granted by the ultimate parent.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Under the Group Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme, participants are required to purchase Lodged Shares using a percentage of their net post-tax eligible annual bonus.
It is the Matching Shares element of the Scheme which qualifies as share-based payment for services anticipated from the participants.
The fair value of the Matching Shares under IFRS 2 will be based on GCap Medias share price at date of grant, less a deduction for the dividends expected between the date of grant and vesting of the Matching Shares.
The charge under IFRS 2 will be based on the assessed fair value of the Matching Shares which are conditionally awarded in May, adjusted for expected lapses due to non-performance or leaving employment.
The adjusted fair value will be spread over three years.
Own shares held by ESOP trust Transactions of the Group-sponsored ESOP trust are included in the Group financial statements.
In particular, the trusts purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Revenue Revenue represents amounts invoiced in respect of all services and goods provided during the year, excluding value-added tax.
Radio and television airtime revenue is recognised on the date of broadcast.
Sponsorship, internet revenue and transmission fees for the digital multiplexes are recognised evenly over the life of the contract in accordance with specific contract terms if applicable.
Revenue for the production of advertisements is recognised on the date of release to the client.
Enterprise revenue relating to events is recognised upon agreed settlement with all related parties and CD revenue is recognised on date of sale.
Revenue on barter transactions is recognised only when the goods or services being exchanged are of a dissimilar nature.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 69 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Expenses Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Finance lease payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Net financing costs Net financing costs comprise interest payable, interest on pension obligations, finance charges on finance leases, interest receivable on funds invested, dividend income and foreign exchange gains and losses that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income and interest payable is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entitys right to receive payments is established.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Segment reporting A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged either in providing products or services business segment, or in providing products or services within a particular economic environment geographical segment, which is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
Adopted IFRSs not yet applied The following Adopted IFRSs were available for early application but have not been applied by the Group in these financial statements: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures: Three amendments to IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Measurement: Amendment to IAS 1 Capital Disclosures: and IFRIC Interpretation 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
The application of IFRS 7 in both years would not have affected the balance sheet or income statement as the standard is concerned only with disclosure.
None of the other standards mentioned are expected to have a significant impact.
The Company has not adopted amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 in relation to financial guarantee contracts which will apply for periods commencing on or after 1 April 2006.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
The Company does not expect the amendments to have any impact on the financial statements for the period commencing 1 April 2006.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 70
