Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Accounting policies A summary of the principal Company accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the period, is set out below.
In these financial statements the following new standards have been adopted for the first time: FRS 20 Share-based payment: FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date: FRS 25 Financial instruments: presentation and disclosure: FRS 26 Financial instruments: measurement: and FRS 28 Corresponding amounts.
The recognition and measurement requirements of FRS 17 Retirement benefits have also been adopted: previously the transitional disclosures of that standard have been followed.
The accounting policies under these new standards are set out below together with an indication of the effects of their adoption.
The Company has elected to recognise in full all cumulative actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes in equity.
Under FRS 17, for the period ended 31 March 2005, the statutory operating charge is 0.1 million lower and an additional financing charge is recognised of 0.04 million.
The Company has one defined benefit pension scheme which was in deficit at the FRS 17 adoption date.
This deficit of 2.9 million is recognised in full in the statutory results on adoption of FRS 17.
A corresponding deferred tax asset of 0.9 million at 31 March 2005 has been recognised in relation to the defined benefit pension scheme liability.
Under FRS 20 the charge to the income statement for these equity instruments is determined by spreading the fair value of the instruments at grant date over the vesting period.
A calculation is then performed at period end to account for the current estimate of the number of instruments that will vest taking into account both service and non-market vesting conditions.
The fair value of the instruments is measured under the Monte Carlo, Bi-nomial and Black-Scholes models, depending upon which is the most appropriate model given the terms of the relevant scheme.
As a result there is a statutory charge under FRS 20 of 0.6 million for the six months ended 31 March 2005.
There is no impact on the net assets of the Group as this is matched by a corresponding increase in equity.
Under FRS 21 dividends are only recognised when they are formally declared, i. e. for interim dividends when paid and for final dividends when authorised by a general meeting.
Accordingly a statutory adjustment has been made.
Dividends of 5.1 million at 31 March 2005 have been reversed and will be included in the subsequent period.
A charge of 10.6 million was made in relation to dividends approved and paid in the six months to 31 March 2005.
The Company has elected to restate its comparatives as it has applied FRS 25 and FRS 26 from the start of the comparative period.
FRS 28 has had no material effect as it imposes the same requirements for comparatives as hitherto required by the Companies Act 1985.
The corresponding amounts in these financial statements are restated in accordance with the new policies.
Total equity Total equity 31 March 1 October 2005 2004 000 000 Equity reconciliation Brought forward pre IFRS restatement 197,926 211,765 Adoption of FRS 21 5,079 10,572 Adoption of FRS 17 1,950 1,879 Total prior year adjustments 3,129 8,693 Total brought forward post restatement 201,055 220,458 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 98 30 Accounting policies continued Six months ended 31 March 2005 000 Summary profit reconciliation Loss for the period pre restatement 8,610 Share based payment charge 593 Difference between the SSAP 24 and FRS 17 charge for defined benefit schemes net of tax 54 Total loss for the period post restatement 9,149 Actuarial gains and losses net of tax 125 Total recognised gains and losses post restatement 9,274 Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost accounting rules, modified to include the revaluation of certain fixed assets, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Cash flow statement The Company is exempt from the requirement of FRS 1 revised 1996 to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that its parent undertaking GCap Media plc includes the Company in its own published consolidated financial statements.
Company profit and loss Under Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The loss for the financial period dealt with in the financial statements of the holding company was 39.6 million six months to 31 March 2005: loss of 9.1 million restated.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Freehold buildings 2%-4% per annum: Long leasehold premises 2%-6% per annum: Short leasehold premises over the term of the lease, or where the lease is renewable, 5% per annum: Fixtures and technical equipment 10%-33% per annum: Digital equipment over the term of the contract: and Motor vehicles 20%-33% per annum.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Investments In the Companys accounts investments in subsidiary companies are stated at cost less provisions where, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been an impairment in the value of the investment.
Dividends receivable from subsidiary companies are credited to the Companys profit and loss account unless there is an impairment of the investment.
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions where, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been an impairment in the value of the investment.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the period and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Accounting policies continued Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company Following the adoption of FRS 25, financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity i. e. forming part of shareholders funds only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: i they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company: and ii where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called-up share capital and share premium exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of interest payable and similar charges.
Finance payments associated with financial instruments that are classified as part of shareholders funds see dividends policy, are dealt with as appropriations in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds.
Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis.
Turnover Turnover comprises income from the sale of advertising airtime, sponsorship and promotions net of agencies commissions and income from advertising on the internet.
Turnover is stated excluding VAT, trade discounts, and intra-Group transactions and derives from goods and services provided in the normal course of business.
Airtime revenue is recognised on the date of broadcast.
Sponsorship revenue and internet advertising are recognised over the life of the contract.
Licences Expenditure incurred in the purchase of licences, and in the applications and re-applications for licences, is written off to the profit and loss account as it is incurred.
Pensions Most of the Companys employees participate in defined contribution pension schemes.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company in an independently administered fund.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period.
Differences between contributions payable and contributions paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
The Company provides for and funds pension liabilities on a going concern basis, on the advice of external actuaries.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account is calculated to produce a level percentage of the current and future pensionable payroll.
The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
The Company operates a pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The pension scheme surplus to the extent that it is recoverable or deficit is recognised in full.
The movement in the scheme surplus deficit is split between operating charges, finance items and, in the statement of total recognised gains and losses, actuarial gains and losses.
As all members of the Capital Radio Plc Pension and Assurance Scheme CRPPAS are past or present employees of GCap Media plc, the amount recorded in the income statement and the balance sheet relates solely to the Capital Radio Plc Pension and Assurance Scheme CRPPAS.
The Company has no members in the Midlands Radio Group scheme.
Own shares held under trust Shares in the Company issued to cover SAYE schemes are held in a Qualifying Share Ownership Trust QUEST.
Shares in the Company issued to cover the long-term incentive plan Capital Radio Restricted Share Plan are held in the Capital Radio Employee Trust.
Own shares held under trust are deducted from shareholders funds.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 100
