ALFRED McALPINE PLC 44 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee interpretations IFRICs as endorsed by the European Union EU, and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies applying IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain tangible xed assets and disclosures relating to share based payments, pension costs and financial instruments.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IAS 1 Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures IFRIC 10 Interim Financial reporting and impairment IFRS 8 Operating segments IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives IFRIC 11 Group treasury and share transactions IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 7 Applying IAS 29 for the first time IAS 23 Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except for IFRIC 12 see the paragraph below on accounting for service concessions and additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
The 2005 gures have been restated due to accounting irregularities discovered in the Slate division and the reclassication of the Stirling Water contract.
The impact of these are discussed in note 5 and note 13 respectively.
The principal accounting policies which have been adopted, and consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated, are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
The consolidated financial statements further include the Groups share of the results up to 31 December of the Groups jointly controlled entities, associates and jointly controlled operations.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and deconsolidated from the date at which control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identiable assets and liabilities acquired is recognised as goodwill.
b Jointly controlled entities and associates A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term interest and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
An associate is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term interest and over whose operating and financial policies the Group exercises a significant inuence but not control.
Investments in jointly controlled entities and associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of post acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement within profit before interest and tax as these entities results are considered to be an integral part of the Groups operations.
The cumulative post acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a jointly controlled entity or associate exceeds its interests in the investment, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on its behalf.
c Jointly controlled operations The Group has certain contractual arrangements with other participants to engage in joint operations that do not create an entity carrying on a trade or business of its own.
The Group includes its share of assets, liabilities and cash ows in such joint arrangements, measured in accordance with the terms of each arrangement, which is usually pro-rata to the Groups interest in the risks in the joint arrangement.
Any subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associates and joint arrangements that are not entities acquired or disposed of during the year are included from or up to the dates of change of control.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that differ from Group accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation.
All intra-Group transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200645 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Key accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts recognised for assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the amounts of revenue and expenses incurred during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes may therefore differ from these estimates and assumptions.
The Groups revenue recognition and long-term contract accounting set out below are central to the way the Group values the work it has carried out in each financial year.
These policies require forecasts to be made of the outcomes of long-term construction and service contracts, which require assessments and judgements to be made on recovery of pre-contract costs, changes in work scopes, contract programmes and maintenance liabilities.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business net of value added tax.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Revenue from construction contracts is recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on construction contracts.
Revenue in respect of land sales is recognised on the exchange of unconditional contracts.
Revenue from service agreements, where the substance of a contract is that the Groups contractual obligations are performed gradually over time, is recognised as the contract activity progresses to reect the Groups partial performance of its contractual obligations.
The amount of revenue reects the accrual of the right to consideration as contract activity progresses by reference to value of the work performed.
Where the substance of the contract is that a right to consideration does not arise until the occurrence of a critical event, revenue is not recognised until that event occurs.
Segmental reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns which are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Construction and other long-term contracts Where the outcome of the contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the contract will be profitable, revenue and cost are recognised over the period of the contract.
Where it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
The Group uses the percentage of completion method to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given period.
The stage of completion is measured by reference to the contract costs incurred up to the balance sheet date as a percentage of the total estimated costs for each contract.
The Group presents as an asset the gross amount due from customers for contract work for all contracts in progress for which costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses exceed progress billings.
Progress billings not yet paid by customers are included within trade and other receivables.
The Group presents as a liability the gross amount due to customers for contract work for all contracts in progress for which progress billings exceed costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses.
Purchased goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration for shares in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates over the fair value to the Group of the net assets acquired.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually through value in use calculations based on discounted cash ows, or more often when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to their other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC 46 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Other intangible assets Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
For assets acquired during the year, amortisation is calculated from the date of acquisition.
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly associated with the development of identiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will probably generate economic benets exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Costs include the software development employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful life.
Property, plant and equipment Fixtures and ttings and leasehold improvements are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
This value is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Land is held at deemed cost and buildings are held at deemed cost less accumulated depreciation.
Minerals relate to slate reserves and are stated in the balance sheet at their revalued amounts, being the fair value at the date of revaluation, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Revaluations are performed with sufficient regularity such that the carrying amount does not differ materially from that which would be determined using fair values at the balance sheet date.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Depreciation Depreciation, based on estimated useful lives, is charged on a straight line basis as follows: Freehold properties 2% per annum: Leasehold properties over the lease term: Plant and equipment at rates between 10% and 33% per annum: and Slate reserves minerals are depreciated by reference to production, where the quarry life is less than ten years.
Inventories Inventories and work in progress, including land held for and in the course of development, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes, where appropriate, labour and production overheads which have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against selling and marketing costs in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200647 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities other than in a business combination in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is calculated based on the laws enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Rates of exchange The income statements of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year.
Assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the closing rate of exchange.
The difference arising from the re-translation at the closing rate of the opening net assets and the retained profits and losses for the current year is taken to reserves.
Financial instruments and equity Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade payables and receivables are initially stated at their fair value.
Trade receivables are reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Subsequently trade payables and receivables are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges and direct issue costs are accounted for on an accrual basis in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method, and added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Provisions Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Retirement benefit costs The Group operates six main dened contribution pension schemes.
The contributions paid by the Group and the employees are invested within the individual pension funds in the month following the month of deduction.
The amount contributed by the Group is charged to profit or loss as the contributions fall due.
The liabilities of the Groups four dened benefit schemes and the related current service cost are determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at least every three years.
Actuarial advice is received from external consultants.
The plans are wholly funded, with the assets of the schemes held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC 48 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The Group has adopted the Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benets Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures and has recognised actuarial gains and losses in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside of profit or loss and are presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benets are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benets become vested.
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet represent the present value of the dened benefit obligations as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Leases Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at the lower of their fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments and the capital elements of the commitments are shown as obligations under finance leases.
Payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements.
The capital element is applied to reduce the outstanding obligations and the interest element is charged against profit in proportion to the reducing capital element outstanding.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful lives.
Operating lease income is credited to the income statement as it is earned.
Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were not vested at 1 January 2006.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, which are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non marketbased vesting conditions at the grant date.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusting for the effect of non marketbased vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial, Black Scholes or Monte Carlo model as appropriate for each scheme.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets classied as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets are classied as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is only met when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to occur within one year from the date of classication.
Accounting for service concessions In November 2006, the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC issued IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements.
The guidance is expected to be endorsed by the EU in 2007 and adopted on a mandatory basis from 2008.
The Groups share of infrastructure assets built under PFI contracts that are currently recognised either as xed assets or as contract debtors on the balance sheet will be required to be recognised as financial, intangible or bifurcated assets depending on the degree to which income is guaranteed by the commissioning lessee.
This may require the Group to restate the carrying value of the asset going forwards such that a profit margin is recognised on construction where previously no recognition had been allowed.
In 2006 the Group has recognised FRS 5 finance debtors relating to concession arrangements held by PFI jointly controlled entities at amortised cost per the guidance of IAS 39.
FRS 5 xed assets relating to concession arrangements will be accounted for in accordance with IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment.
The effect of adopting this policy is to maintain the accounting within PFI associates and jointly controlled entities in line with existing UK GAAP with the exception of the treatment of interest rate derivatives under IAS 39 see below, whilst ensuring that the accounting treatment remains consistent with existing IFRS.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200649 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The PFI associates and jointly controlled entities use derivatives to manage the financial risks to which they are exposed in relation to changes in interest rates and to the Retail Price Index RPI.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any hedged movements are recycled through the income statement on the sale of PFI associates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale, at which time they are amortised over the life of the asset.
The amortisation charge is calculated using an annuity based methodology.
Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and fair value interest rate risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Groups treasury function provides written policies for overall risk management, as well as written policies for specic areas such as interest rate risk and investing excess liquidity.
The treasury function implements the agreed policies on a day-to-day basis to meet the treasury objectives.
These objectives include ensuring that the Group has sufficient liquidity to meet its day-to-day needs and to fund its capital commitments and working capital requirements: deploying any surplus liquidity in a prudent and profitable manner: managing interest rate and credit exposures: and managing the Groups relationship with banks and financial institutions.
Market risk including currency, fair value and price risk Foreign currency risk The Group operates predominantly within the UK such that its exposure to currency risk is considered to be minimal with only a small proportion of items both in terms of volume and value transacted in a foreign currency.
As a result, there are no hedges in place with respect to any potential currency exposure.
Price risk The Group does not have significant equity investments or investments in commodities and does not consider itself to be exposed to any significant equity, commodity or other price risk.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
It has policies in place to ensure that sales of products and services are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Surplus funds held in the Group are invested, in line with Board-approved policy, in high quality, short-term liquid instruments, usually money market funds or bank deposits.
Credit risk is managed by limiting the aggregate exposure to any one individual counterparty, taking into account its credit rating.
Such counterparty exposures are regularly reviewed and adjusted as necessary.
Accordingly, the possibility of material loss arising in the event of non-performance by counterparties is considered to be unlikely.
Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions including by entering into non-recourse nancing arrangements with third parties.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group treasury aims to maintain exibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
Cash ow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups income and operating cash ows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The interest rates of finance leases to which the Group is lessee are xed at inception of the lease.
The leases expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Groups cash ow interest rate risk arises from the credit facilities available to it.
Current borrowing facilities are at variable rates and as such expose the Group to cash ow interest rate risk.
The Group monitors its exposure on a regular basis to ensure that this is maintained within acceptable levels.
Once facilities are drawn down, the related rate of interest is xed and as such exposes the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
Given the shortterm nature of such xed borrowings, this is not considered to be a significant risk to the Group.
