qxp:WP100 6 3 07 13:05 Page 55 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Basis of preparation Notional interest payable, representing the unwinding of the discount These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with on long term liabilities, is charged to finance costs.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC interpretations Infrequently a long term land creditor is for a parcel, or parcels, of land and with those parts of the Companies Act, 1985 applicable to companies where the Group has exchanged unconditional contracts, and so recognised reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the creditor and the land inventory, but in practice does not have title or the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of financial access to the land.
In those few cases the notional interest payable already assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through charged to finance costs is then credited to finance costs and added to the the profit and loss.
A summary of the more important accounting policies cost of inventory in accordance with IAS 23 Borrowing Costs and IAS 2 is set out below.
In no circumstances will the cost of such land inventory The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally exceed the contracted sum payable.
accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and Taxation assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax and deferred tax charges.
Balance Sheet date and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on The current tax charge is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit managements best knowledge of the amount, event or action, actual differs from profit before taxation recorded in the Income Statement because results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years or that are never taxable or deductible.
The liability for current Basis of consolidation tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted, or substantively The consolidated results incorporate the financial statements of the enacted, by the Balance Sheet date.
Company and entities controlled by the Company subsidiaries up to the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding Entities which are jointly controlled with another party or parties tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred The results of subsidiaries and joint ventures acquired or disposed of during tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits a year are included in the Group Income Statement from the effective date will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Goodwill arising on consolidation Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair Current and deferred tax are charged or credited in the Income Statement, value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable except when they relate to items charged or credited through the Statement net assets acquired.
of Recognised Income and Expense when they are charged or credited there.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least Segmental reporting annually.
Any impairment is charged immediately to the Income Statement The Group is divided into three components for management reporting and is not subsequently reversed.
and control: Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS UK housing George Wimpey and Laing Homes brands on 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts following impairment tests.
US housing Morrison Homes brand Revenue Corporate Revenue from housing sales is recognised as the fair value of the consideration These components make up the primary segmental analysis in the financial received or receivable on legal completion, net of incentives.
No secondary segmental analysis is provided as the primary Exceptional items segmental analysis follows the geographical split.
Exceptional items are dened as items of income and expenditure which Intangible assets are material and unusual in nature and of such signicance that they require Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and separate disclosure on the face of the income statement in accordance with unique software controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements.
benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer Share-based payments software development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight In accordance with its transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all line basis over three to five years from the time of going live.
grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 which had not vested Investments in subsidiary undertakings as of 1 January 2005.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are accounted for at cost less any The Group makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is Inventories expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments to the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
amounts expensed are only made in respect of non market related factors.
Cost comprises direct materials, direct labour costs and those overheads Operating leases which have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present Operating lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement in equal location and condition.
Cost in certain circumstances also includes amounts over the lease term.
notional interest as explained in the accounting policy for finance income and costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less Property, plant and equipment all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment other than freehold land at rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset to its Land inventory is recognised at the time a liability is recognised generally residual value evenly over its expected useful life as follows: after exchange of unconditional contracts.
Freehold buildings over 50 years Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry interest and are stated at their initial value Short leaseholds over the period of the lease reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Plant and equipment 20% to 33% per annum on a straight line basis Derivative financial instruments The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if Derivatives utilised by the Group are primarily interest rate swaps.
Derivatives appropriate at each balance sheet date.
are initially accounted and measured at fair value on the date of the Finance income and costs derivative contract and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Gains Interest receivable and payable on bank deposits and borrowings is credited or losses on interest rate swaps are taken direct to finance costs in the or charged to finance costs as incurred.
qxp:WP100 6 3 07 13:05 Page 56 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued Trade payables New standards and interpretations not yet adopted Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended terms, particularly in are not effective for 2006 and therefore have not been applied in preparing respect of land purchases, are recorded at their fair value.
these accounts: Cash and cash equivalents IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the Amendments to IAS 1 Cash and cash equivalents in the Cash Flow Statements includes cash in hand, Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures require extensive deposits held at call with banks, other highly liquid investments with original disclosures about the significance of financial instruments for an entitys maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are financial position and performance, and qualitative and quantitative included within financial liabilities in current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
disclosures on the nature and extent of risks.
IFRS 7 and amended IAS 1 which will be adopted for the Groups 2007 accounts, will require additional Pensions disclosures with respect to the Groups financial instruments and share capital.
The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under the amended IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments addresses the accounting at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at market value.
for share-based payment transactions in which some or all of the goods The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in or services received cannot be specifically identified.
IFRIC 8 will become the Income Statement: service costs are spread systematically over the lives mandatory for the Groups 2007 accounts, with retrospective application of the employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which required.
The Group has not yet determined the potential effect of they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full through the the interpretation.
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment prohibits the reversal Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the Income of an impairment loss recognised in a previous interim period in respect of Statement as they become due.
goodwill, an investment in an equity instrument or a financial asset carried at cost.
IFRIC 10 will become mandatory for the Groups 2007 accounts and Provisions will apply to goodwill, investments in equity instruments and financial Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive assets carried at cost prospectively from the date that the Group first applied obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outow the measurement criteria of IAS 36 and IAS 39 respectively i. e. 1 January of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has 2005.
IFRIC 10 is not expected to have any significant impact on the been reliably estimated.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity share capital.
The Group does not consider that any other standard or interpretations Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have any significant impact are charged to the share premium account.
Where any Group company purchases ordinary shares of the Company Treasury shares the consideration paid, including any incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity shareholders.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at closing rates of exchange.
On consolidation, the Income Statements of overseas subsidiary entities are translated at an appropriate average rate for the year and the Balance Sheets at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening Balance Sheets, together with the difference between Income Statements translated at average rates and closing rates, are dealt with through reserves.
The Group designates its US$ borrowings as a hedge of the investments in the US Housing business.
Gains and losses on the retranslation of foreign currency borrowings to Sterling are taken direct to reserves.
56 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
