qxp:WP088 6 3 07 13:02 Page 79 Shareholder Information Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty ninth Annual General Meeting offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to of George Wimpey Plc will be held on 26 April 2007 at 11.00 am at be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities The Royal College of Physicians, 11 St Andrews Place, Regents Park, in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred London NW1 4LE, for the following purposes: hereby had not expired.
Ordinary Business Companys authority to purchase its own shares 1 To receive and consider the Report of the Directors and Accounts for 10 To resolve as a special resolution: the year ended 31 December 2006.
That the Company be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 2 That a final dividend of 13.1 pence per share in respect of the year 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of not more than 40,093,797 ordinary ended 31 December 2006 be and is hereby declared due and payable shares of 25 pence each in its share capital at a price not less than on 11 May 2007 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 25 pence per share and not more than 5% above the average of the 2 March 2007, such final dividend to be payable only in respect of such middle market quotations for the ordinary shares in the Company taken of the shares which the relevant holder of the shares has not exercised from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business any entitlement to receive new shares instead of a dividend in cash days immediately preceding the day on which such shares are contracted pursuant to the scrip dividend scheme.
to be purchased in each case exclusive of any expenses provided that To reappoint the following Directors who are retiring by rotation: the authority hereby conferred shall expire, unless previously revoked or varied, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the 3 Andrew Carr-Locke Company to be held after the passing of this resolution except that 4 Christine Cross the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority, which will 5 Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde.
or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
and to reappoint the following Director who was appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting: Special Business The New Three Year Morrison Homes Long Term Incentive Plan for the 6 Ian Sutcliffe.
President of Morrison Homes Biographical details of the above Directors are shown on page 36.
11 To resolve as an ordinary resolution: To approve the New Three Year Morrison Homes Long Term Incentive 7 To resolve as an ordinary resolution: Plan for the President of Morrison Homes.
That  LLP be and are hereby reappointed auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next That the Directors be and are hereby authorised to adopt the New Three general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, and Year Morrison Homes Long Term Incentive Plan New Three Year Morrison to authorise the Audit Committee to fix their remuneration on behalf Homes LTIP for the President of Morrison Homes, the main features of of the Board.
which are summarised in the Appendix of this Notice of Meeting which is shown on page 81.
The Rules of the New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP Directors authority to allot shares have been initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification 8 To resolve as an ordinary resolution: and are produced to the Meeting and the Directors be and are hereby That the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to do all acts and things which they consider necessary or authorised in substitution for all previous authorities conferred upon them desirable to carry the same into effect.
to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 2 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an Remuneration Report aggregate nominal value of 33,411,497, provided that this authority 12 To resolve as an ordinary resolution: shall expire, unless previously revoked or varied, at the conclusion of the To approve the Remuneration Report contained within the Annual next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006. resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer E-Communications or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be 13 To resolve as an ordinary resolution: allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities That George Wimpey Plc the Company may, notwithstanding in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred Article 148 of the Companys Articles of Association, serve any notice or hereby had not expired.
send or supply any other document or information to a member by making Disapplication of pre-emption rights the notice, document or information available on a website or by other 9 To resolve as a special resolution: electronic means.
That the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Explanation of Resolutions section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within Ordinary Business the meaning of section 94 2 of the Companies Act 1985 for cash Resolution 1: To Receive the Directors Report and Accounts pursuant to the authority conferred by the resolution numbered 8 The Directors are required to present to the meeting the Directors and above and to sell treasury shares wholly for cash pursuant to section Auditors Reports and the Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006.
94 3A of the Companies Act 1985, as if sub-section 1 of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to any such allotment, Resolution 2: To Approve a Dividend provided that this power shall be limited: The proposed 2006 final dividend of 13.1 pence per share will be paid on 11 May 2007 to shareholders who are on the register on 2 March 2007.
The ato the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, final dividend will be paid in cash to all shareholders other than those who open offer or any other pre-emptive offer or a scrip dividend alternative exercise their right to receive shares instead of their cash dividend pursuant in each case in favour of ordinary shareholders excluding any to the scrip dividend scheme, details of which are set out on page 38 of the shareholder holding shares as treasury shares where the equity Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006. securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective Resolutions 3 4 5: To Reappoint Andrew Carr-Locke, Christine Cross and number of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them, and Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may The Articles of Association require one third of the Directors who are subject deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements, legal to retirement by rotation to retire at each Annual General Meeting.
However, or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements if their number is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter exceeding one third shall retire from office.
In line with the Combined Code whatsoever: and each Director also seeks reappointment every three years.
The Directors to retire by rotation shall be those who have been longest in office since their b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above last appointment or reappointment.
Any new directors appointed during the of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 5,011,724: year by the Board must, in accordance with the Articles of Association, seek and shall expire, unless previously revoked or varied, at the conclusion reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting and shall not be taken of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of into account in determining the Directors or the number of Directors who this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an are to retire by rotation.
qxp:WP088 6 3 07 13:02 Page 80 Shareholder Information Notice of Meeting continued Accordingly, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting three Directors will be All rights attaching to the shares, including voting rights and the right required to retire by way of rotation.
Andrew Carr-Locke, Christine Cross and to receive dividends, will be suspended whilst they are held in treasury.
Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde being the longest standing Directors Options were outstanding as at 9 February 2007 to subscribe for a total since their appointment or reappointment, will therefore retire number of 6,720,918 ordinary shares, or 1.68% of the Companys issued and offer themselves for reappointment.
If the authority to purchase shares is ever used in full and Resolution 6: To Reappoint Ian Sutcliffe the purchased shares cancelled, the proportion of issued share capital The Articles of Association permit the Board to appoint a person to the Board represented by this figure would be 1.86%.
during the year, subject to them being reappointed at the subsequent Special Business Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 11: To Approve the New Three Year Morrison Homes Long Ian Sutcliffe was appointed to the Board on 11 October 2006 and offers Term Incentive Plan for the President of Morrison Homes himself for reappointment in accordance with the Articles of Association.
This resolution seeks shareholder approval for the introduction of a new three year long term incentive plan for the President of the Companys US Directors biographical details, including those seeking reappointment, are subsidiary, Morrison Homes, Inc. New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP.
shown on page 36 of the Annual Report.
These include dates of appointment, ages, career histories, current directorships and other significant appointments.
The New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP replaces the Morrison Homes The Board recommends to the Company's shareholders the reappointment Long Term Incentive Plan MHLTIP which was established in 2003 following of each of the above Directors.
The Remuneration Committee which consists of four independent Non Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board has Resolution 7: To Reappoint  LLP as Auditors conducted a review of the long term incentive plan arrangements for the This resolution proposes that  LLP be reappointed President of Morrison Homes with the assistance of its adviser Mercer Human as auditors, and authorises the Audit Committee to fix their remuneration Resource Consulting.
A consequence of that review is that the Remuneration on behalf of the Board.
Committee has recommended to the Board that the New Three Year Resolutions 8 9: To Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-Emption Rights Morrison Homes LTIP should replace the MHLTIP and that the President Under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, the Directors cannot generally should also participate in the George Wimpey Long Term Incentive Plan allot unissued shares in the Company unless they are authorised to do so by George Wimpey LTIP for up to 2x base salary out of the maximum the Company in general meeting.
Resolution 8 will authorise the Directors to annual multiple of 3.5x base salary.
issue new shares up to the lower of one third of the amount of the nominal Like the George Wimpey LTIP, the New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP value of the issued share capital of the Company calculated excluding any incorporates a three year performance period.
The MHLTIP was based on a treasury shares as at the date of this Notice i. e. up to a value of 33,411,497 one year performance period.
The Remuneration Committee believes that or the amount of the nominal value of the authorised but unissued share it is appropriate that the President participates in the George Wimpey LTIP capital of the Company.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the which is a share based long term incentive plan and that the New Three Year next Annual General Meeting.
As at the date of this Notice, the Company Morrison Homes LTIP should be based on three year performance periods in does not hold any treasury shares.
The Directors have no present intention order to help drive the long term growth of the business.
of issuing shares, except as needed to satisfy the exercise of options under the Companys Employee Share Schemes and the allotment of shares The New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP provides for the President of pursuant to such elections made by shareholders of the Company.
Morrison Homes to be granted an award in each financial year of Morrison Homes.
Whilst the President participates in the George Wimpey LTIP the Under Resolution 9, the Directors will remain subject to constraints on the maximum value of the annual award under the New Three Year Morrison issue of shares for cash unless the issue takes place pro rata to existing Homes LTIP will be 1.5x base salary.
They will be able to issue such shares for cash only: Awards under the New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP will be paid out in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer in cash at the end of the three year period based on Morrison Homes or a scrip dividend alternative, or average return on adjusted net assets over that period and will also be up to 5% of the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital subject to the growth in pre-tax and pre-interest earnings of Morrison Homes.
as at the date of the Notice, i. e. 5,011,724.
A more detailed summary of the main features and terms of the New Three Resolution 10: To Empower the Company to Make Market Purchases Year Morrison Homes LTIP are set out in the Appendix to this Notice.
of its Shares Resolution 12: To Approve the Remuneration Report of the Company This resolution is intended to renew the authority of the Directors, granted In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 at the Annual General Meeting in 2006, to make market purchases of shares the Board is required to present the Remuneration Report to shareholders within a 10% limit, in accordance with Article 53 of the Companys Articles of for approval at the Meeting.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 44 Association.
The Board has no present intention of exercising this authority.
to 50 of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December Moreover, purchases will only be made if they would result in an expected 2006.
The Board considers that appropriate executive remuneration plays a increase in earnings per share, taking into account other available investment vital part in helping to achieve the Companys overall objectives.
The vote opportunities, and will be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
will have advisory status in respect of the remuneration policy and overall Any shares purchased in accordance with this authority will subsequently remuneration packages and is not specific to individual levels of remuneration.
be cancelled or they may be held in treasury pursuant to the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003.
These Resolution 13: To Authorise the Company to use E-Communications regulations allow the Company to hold its own shares in treasury following The Companies Act 2006 provisions relating to electronic communications a buy back as an alternative to cancelling them.
Holding bought back shares sections 308, 309, 333, 1143 to 1148 and schedules 4 and 5 came into in treasury provides the Company with the ability to sell or transfer them force on 20 January 2007: and for listed companies these provisions are quickly and effectively and also provides flexibility in using such shares for supplemented by the rules on electronic communications contained in the employees schemes.
If any such shares are used, the Company will, so long Financial Services Authoritys sourcebook, Disclosure and Transparency Rules as required under the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers Chapter 6 which came into force on the same date.
For flexibility, should it Investment Committee, count them towards the limits in the schemes as elect to do so, the Company wishes to take advantage of the new provisions if they were newly issued shares.
so that it can circulate documents and information to shareholders by electronic communications i. e. email or fax or by making the documents and information available on the Companys website.
In order to do so, the Company must obtain the consent of shareholders in general meeting.
80 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Shareholder Informaion WP100 p79-83 vAW1 tp.
qxp:WP088 6 3 07 13:02 Page 81 Resolution 13 will authorise the Company to serve any notice or send For performance between these figures, the percentage paid out will or supply any other document or information to a member by making be calculated on a pro rata basis.
However, no payment will be paid at all the notice, document or information available on a website or by other unless the growth in profit before interest and tax achieved by Morrison electronic means.
In addition to this notice, the Company will send a letter Homes over the period 2007 to 2009 is at least 10% in each year.
to each shareholder which describes the issue more fully and, assuming The Committee may vary these targets for future performance periods the resolution is passed, sets out what further action a shareholder should provided that they are no less demanding than those set out above.
take if he or she would like to receive electronic communications from the Company.
Individuals will retain the right to receive information in paper Payments to the participant if they wish.
Payments to the participant will be made as soon as practicable after the financial results for the last financial year of the performance period have By Order of the Board been approved by the Board.
Cessation of employment If the participant ceases to be employed by Morrison Homes, the participant will normally lose the right to any payment under the New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP, even if the cessation is between the end of the performance period and the payment date.
James J Jordan Group Company Secretary and General Counsel If the reason for the cessation is disability, retirement at normal retirement George Wimpey Plc age, early retirement with the employing companys consent or other Manning House special circumstances approved by the Committee, the participant will be 22 Carlisle Place entitled to a payment at the end of the financial year of cessation, based London SW1P 1JA on the ROANA achieved by Morrison Homes during the financial years 21 February 2007 completed up to the payment date, but reduced pro rata to the proportion of the performance period which has elapsed before the cessation.
If the participant dies, the participants personal representatives will be entitled to a payment at the end of the financial year in which the death occurred without any pro rata deduction, based on the ROANA achieved by Morrison Appendix Homes during the financial years completed up to the payment date.
Summary of the principal terms of the New Three Year Morrison Homes Long Term Incentive Plan for the president of Morrison Homes the Corporate events New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP If Morrison Homes ceases to be a subsidiary of the Company, the participant will be entitled to payments without any pro rata deduction, based on the Introduction ROANA achieved by Morrison Homes up to the cessation date.
The New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP is an incentive plan whose Adjustments to awards purpose is to provide rewards in the form of cash payments to the President If there is a significant change in the structure of Morrison Homes or a of Morrison Homes, Inc. Morrison Homes based on the performance of significant injection or withdrawal of capital by the Company excluding Morrison Homes over periods of three financial years.
It will be administered normal dividends, the Committee may make adjustments to awards which by the Remuneration Committee the Committee of the Companys Board it considers to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances, with the intention of Directors the Board.
that broadly similar cash payments will be earned for comparable levels Eligibility of performance to those which would have been earned if the change The President of Morrison Homes will be eligible to participate in the New had not occurred.
Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP at the discretion of the Committee.
Participants rights Individual limits Awards granted under the New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP are not The maximum award that may be granted each year to the participant transferable.
under the New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP will be an amount Awards are made at the discretion of the Committee and the participant equivalent to 1.5x his annual rate of base salary at the grant date.
has no contractual right to be granted an award.
If the participant also participates in the George Wimpey Long Term The participant has no right to compensation for the loss of any benefit or Incentive Plan, the value of awards made to the participant under both prospective benefit under the New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP if he plans in any financial year will not exceed 3.5x his annual rate of base salary ceases to be employed by Morrison Homes for any reason.
Termination of the Plan Calculation of cash payments The New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP will terminate on the tenth The value of the cash payment to be made under each award will be anniversary of its adoption by the Companys shareholders or earlier at the determined by the financial performance of Morrison Homes over discretion of the Board.
No new awards may be granted after the termination, performance periods of three financial years, beginning no earlier than 2007. but the rights of the participant over existing awards will not be affected.
For the performance period 2007 to 2009, the proportion of the award paid out will depend on the average return on adjusted net assets ROANA Amendments to the Plan achieved by Morrison Homes over the performance period, according to The New Three Year Morrison Homes LTIP may be amended by the Committee the following table.
at any time provided that amendments which are to the advantage of the participant may only be made by or with the prior approval of the Companys Average ROANA % of award paid out shareholders in general meeting unless they are minor amendments which 13% or less 0 the Committee considers necessary or desirable in order to benefit administration or they are necessary to obtain or maintain favourable tax, 14% 25 exchange control or other regulatory treatment for the participant, the 16% 50 Company, Morrison Homes or any subsidiary.
qxp:WP088 6 3 07 13:02 Page 82 Shareholder Information Notice of Meeting continued NOTES: Action to be taken Whether or not you intend to attend the Annual General Meeting, you i.
A member entitled to attend and vote at this Meeting may appoint a proxy are requested to complete the enclosed Form of Proxy and return it to the to attend and vote instead of him or her.
The proxy need not be a member Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West of the Company.
Sussex BN99 6AU as soon as possible and in any event so as to be received ii.
Instruments appointing proxies must be received by the Companys Registrars no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the Annual General not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the Meeting.
Meeting, that is no later than 11:00 am on 24 April 2007.
The completion and submission of a Form of Proxy will not prevent you from attending iii.
Contracts of Service with Directors and the Register of Directors Interests will and voting in person if you so wish.
be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours between the date of this Notice and the Annual General Meeting In conjunction with its Registrars, the Company has again provided the and at the venue of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the facility to allow each shareholder to register proxy votes electronically.
commencement of the meeting and until its conclusion.
Detailed information of how to do this is set out on the Form of Proxy Admission Card.
You can register your proxy votes electronically iv.
A copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December by either logging on to our Registrars website, www.
co. uk and 2006, including the Remuneration Report referred to in Resolution 12, is also following the instructions, or, if your shareholding is uncertificated, by available on our website, www.
registering your proxy votes using the service launched by CRESTCo, v. As permitted by Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, principally to streamline the process for institutional investors.
only those shareholders who are registered on the Companys share register at Recommendation 6:00 pm on 24 April 2007 shall be entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be proposed at the and to vote in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole time.
Changes to entries on the share register after 6:00 pm on 24 April 2007 and recommend you to vote in favour of them.
Each Director will be doing shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote so in respect of his or her own beneficial shareholdings.
Attendance and voting As a shareholder of George Wimpey Plc, you have the right to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Please bring with you the accompanying Form of Proxy Admission Card and retain it until the end of the Meeting.
It will authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote, and will help us to register your attendance without delay.
Registration will be available from 9:30 am.
For the safety and comfort of those attending the Meeting, large bags, cameras, recording equipment and similar items will not be allowed into the building.
The Meeting will commence at 11:00 am and light refreshments will be available from 10:30 am and also after the conclusion of the Meeting.
You are advised to bring your Annual Report with you to the Meeting so that you can refer to it as necessary.
If you do not wish, or are unable, to attend, you may appoint either the Chairman of the Meeting or someone else of your choice to act on your behalf and to vote in the event of a poll.
That person is known as a proxy.
You are advised to use the enclosed Form of Proxy to appoint a proxy or to vote electronically as outlined above and in more detail on the enclosed Form of Proxy.
A proxy need not be a shareholder and may attend and vote on behalf of the shareholder who appointed him or her.
At the Meeting, the proxy can act for the member he or she represents.
This includes the right to join in or demand a poll, but it does not include the right to vote on a show of hands.
The proxy is also valid for any adjournment of the Meeting.
Please tick the appropriate box alongside each resolution on the Form of Proxy to indicate whether you wish your votes to be cast for, or against, or whether you wish to withhold your vote from, that resolution.
Unless you give specific instructions on how to vote on a particular resolution, your proxy will be able, at his or her discretion, either to vote for or against that resolution or to withhold your vote.
Before posting the form to the Registrar, please check that you have signed it.
In the case of joint holders, either or any one of you may sign it.
As stated above, the Forms of Proxy must be received in the offices of the Companys Registrars no later than 11:00 am on 24 April 2007.
Any Form of Proxy received after this time will be void.
82 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
