Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc We have audited the Company financial statements of GKN plc for the annual report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the balance sheet and the aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the related notes.
These Company financial statements have been prepared Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the other information.
information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as Basis of audit opinion having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of GKN plc on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
for the year ended 31 December 2006 on page 61.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Company financial statements and Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the remuneration report and the Company financial statements in accordance Directors in the preparation of the Company financial statements, and with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
statement of Directors responsibilities on page 47.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements and the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Company relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Company We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into to be audited.
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Company financial the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2006: We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Directors' report is consistent with the Company financial statements.
The remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in information given in the Directors report includes that specic information accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and presented in the business review that is cross referred from the business review section of the Directors report.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider  LLP whether it is consistent with the audited Company financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited Birmingham part of the Directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, the business review, the corporate governance 26 February 2007 statement and the other information listed on the contents page of the Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
