Taxation information for shareholders Information for shareholders US shareholders A summary of the main tax consequences for holders of shares and The following is a summary of certain UK taxation and USA federal ADRs who are citizens or residents of the UK or the USA is set out income tax considerations that may be relevant to a US holder of below.
It is not a complete analysis of all the possible tax consequences shares or ADRs.
This summary only applies to a shareholder that holds of purchase or ownership of these securities.
It is intended only as a shares or ADRs as capital assets, is a citizen or resident of the USA or general guide.
Holders are advised to consult their advisers with a domestic corporation or that is otherwise subject to United States respect to the tax consequences of the purchase and ownership of federal income taxation on a net income basis in respect of the shares their shares or ADRs, and the consequences under state and local tax or ADRs, and is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does laws in the USA and the implications of the current UK US Income Tax not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that convention.
is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
This statement is based upon UK and US tax laws and practices at the Taxation of dividends date of this report.
The gross amount of dividends received without reduction for any UK withholding tax is treated as foreign source dividend income for US US holders of ADRs generally will be treated as the owners of the tax purposes.
It is not eligible for the dividend received deduction underlying shares for the purposes of the current US UK double allowed to US corporations.
Dividends on ADRs are payable in US taxation conventions relating to income and gains Income Tax dollars: dividends on shares are payable in Sterling.
Dividends paid in Convention, estate and gift taxes Estate and Gift Tax Convention pounds Sterling will be included in income in the US dollar amount and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the dividends amended the Code.
are received by the holder.
Subject to certain exceptions for shortterm or hedged positions, an individual eligible US holder will be UK shareholders subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15% in respect of Taxation of dividends qualied dividends received before 2011.
Shareholders are advised to From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one ninth.
consult their own Tax Advisers to confirm their eligibility.
As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax on dividend Taxation of capital gains income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK resident individual Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, but shareholders.
Tax credits are, however, no longer repayable to will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other shareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit.
disposal of shares or ADRs.
Taxation of capital gains Estate and gift taxes UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal of Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not shares or ADRs.
They may also be entitled to indexation relief and generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
taper relief on such sales.
Indexation relief is calculated on the market value of shares at 31st March 1982 and on the cost of any subsequent Stamp duty purchases from the date of such purchase.
Indexation relief for UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be payable individual shareholders ceased on 5th April 1998.
Taper relief is on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or depository available to individual shareholders who hold or are deemed to hold at a rate of 1.5% of their price if issued, the amount of any shares for at least three years before they are sold.
consideration provided if transferred on sale, or their value if transferred for no consideration.
Inheritance tax Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR.
No UK stamp of shares or ADRs.
Tax may be charged on the amount by which the duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided that the value of the shareholder's estate is reduced as a result of any transfer instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times outside by way of gift or other disposal at less than full market value.
Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR would be payable at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer.
Any sale of the Such a gift or other disposal is subject to both UK inheritance tax and underlying shares would result in liability to UK stamp duty or, as the US estate or gift tax.
The Estate and Gift Tax Convention would case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
There is a minimum charge of generally provide for tax paid in the USA to be credited against tax 5 where a stamp duty liability arises.
Stamp duty UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be payable on the purchase of shares at a rate of 0.5% of the purchase price.
There is a minimum charge of 5 where a stamp duty liability arises.
GSK Annual Report 2006 186 INVESTOR INFORMATION
