Directors statements of responsibility Directors statement of responsibility in relation to Directors remuneration the consolidated financial statements The Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 82 sets out the The Directors are responsible for: remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures on Directors remuneration and other disclosable information relating to ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting records, which Directors and officers and their interests.
It has been prepared in disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and complies with Section at any time and from which financial statements can be prepared B of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
to comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation Going concern basis preparing financial statements for each financial period which give After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in the European Union, of the state of affairs of the Group as at the operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they end of the financial period and of the profit or loss for that period continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial ensuring the operation of systems of internal control and for taking statements.
reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
Internal control The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2006, The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates in Financial statements on pages 86 to 164 of this report.
in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements, supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates The Combined Code as necessary.
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles of The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report page 85 Reporting Council, as described under Corporate governance on opposite.
pages 53 to 63, and has complied with its provisions except as The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2006 are described on page 62. included in the Annual Report 2006, which is published in hard-copy As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the printed form and made available on the website.
The Directors are auditors have considered the Directors statement of compliance in responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report relation to those points of the Combined Code which are specified on the website in accordance with UK legislation governing the for their review.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation Annual Report may be different.
The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2006, Disclosure of information to auditors comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report, the Financial statements and additional information for investors, has The Directors, in office at the date of this Report, have each confirmed been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by that: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Sir Christopher Gent This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Chairman with the provisions of Section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
28th February 2007 GSK Annual Report 2006 84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
