Index Page Page 2006 performance overview 2-3,7 Governance and policy 56-58 Accounting policies 90-93 Improving access to medicines 2-3,18 Accounting presentation 7,90-93 Incentive plans 79-81 Acquisitions and disposals 122-125 Independent Auditors report 85 Annual General Meeting 59,184 Intellectual property 23-24,156-163 Annual Remuneration 73 Interest rate risk management 43,127 Assets held for sale 108 Internal control framework 59-60 Associates and joint ventures 100,106-107 Inventories 108 Being the best place for the best people to do their Investments in associates and joint ventures 106-107 best work 2-3,17 Investor information 171-187 Board 54,56 Key performance indicators 2-3 Business review 7-52 Legal proceedings 156-164 Cash and cash equivalents 108 Movements in equity 40,119-120 Chairmans and CEOs summary 1 Net debt 40,116-117 Combined Code 62,84 New accounting requirements 94 Commitments 40-41,126 Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees 72 Committee reports 60-62,65-82 Non-Executive Directors remuneration 74-75 Consolidated balance sheet 87 Notes to the financial statements 90-164 Consolidated cash ow statement 88 Operating profit 98 Consolidated income statement 86 Optimising the performance of key products 2-3,8 Consolidated statement of recognised income and Other intangible assets 39,105-106 expense 89 Other investments 107 Consumer Healthcare 8,12,21,23,30,35 Other non-current assets 107 Contact details 185 Other non-current liabilities 116 Contingent liabilities 40,41,116 Other operating income 98 Corporate Executive Team 55 Other provisions 115 Corporate governance 53-64 Outlook and risk factors 44-47 Corporate responsibility and community Pensions and other post-employment benets 81-82,109-115 investment 19-20,57,62,183 Pharmaceutical turnover 31-34,174-177 Critical accounting policies 37-38 Post balance sheet events 126 Delivering the product pipeline for patients 2-3,9-16 Presentation of the financial statements 90 Dialogue with shareholders 58-59 Principal Group companies 153-155 Directors and Senior Management remuneration 72-82 Products and competition 27-30 Directors interests 76 Property, plant and equipment 39,103-104 Directors interests in contracts 82 Quarterly trend 172-177 Directors statements of responsibility 84 Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt 121-122 Dividends 36,102,182 Reconciliation of profit after tax to operating cash ows 121 Earnings per share 102 Reconciliation to US accounting principles 139-152 Employee costs 99 Regulatory environment 22-25 Employee share schemes 134-138 Related party transactions 120 Exchange rates 6,94 Remuneration policy 66-70 Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration 71 Remuneration Report 65-82 Finance costs 36,99 Report of the Directors 6-82 Finance income 36,99 Responsibility for environment, health and safety 24-25 Financial instruments and related disclosures 127-134 Risk factors 44-47 Financial position and resources 39-43 Segment information 94-97 Financial record 172-181 Share capital and share premium 118 Financial review 2005 48-52 Share options 76-78,134-138 Financial review 2006 31-38 Shareholder information 182-185 Financial statements 83-164 Taxation 36,100-102 Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc 165-170 Taxation information for shareholders 186 Financial summary ifc Total equity 40,119-120 Financial trends and ratios 6 Trade and other payables 39,108-109 Five year record 178-181 Trade and other receivables 39,108 Foreign exchange risk management 43,127 Trademarks 24 Global manufacturing and supply 21 Treasury policies 42-43 Glossary of terms 187 US law and regulation 63-64 Goodwill 104 World economy 26 GSK Annual Report 2006 188 INVESTOR INFORMATION Corporate Annual responsibility report report Financial summary Chairmans and CEOs letter Chairmans and CEOs summary Corporate responsibility at GSK Performance overview Access to medicines Business review Research and innovation Corporate governance Ethical conduct Remuneration report What would Supply chain Financial statements Employment you like to know Notes to the financial Environment statements about GSK?
Working with communities Investor information www.
com Corporate Annual responsibility review review Chairmans and CEOs summary Chairmans and CEOs letter Delivering our product pipeline Q&A for patients Access to medicines Optimising the performance of Research and innovation key products Website Ethical conduct Improving access to medicines Employment Being the best place for the best Environment people to do their best work Working with communities Running our business Managing CR responsibly About us Data summary Performance overview Our products Business operating review Your health Summary remuneration report Responsibility Corporate governance Our work with communities Summary financial statements Research & development Shareholder information Investors Media centre Careers Do more, feel better, live longer Head Ofce and Registered Ofce Produced by Corporate Communications, GSK.
GlaxoSmithKline plc 980 Great West Road Designed by CGI London.
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS Printed in the UK by St. Ives Direct Edenbridge Ltd.
The paper United Kingdom used in the production of this document is made from pulps Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 harvested from sustainable forests, also using sawmill residues www.
Annual Review 2006 A human race Do more, feel better, live longer Performance highlights How we did in 2006 Financial performance Optimising the performance of key products 95.5p 2.6bn 3.3bn 1.6bn Earnings per share Free cashow Sales of Seretide Advair Sales of Avandia group of products 19% growth over 2005 at 44% decrease compared 11% growth over 2005 constant exchange rates to 2005, due mainly to at CER 25% growth over 2005 CER a tax settlement of at CER See pages 7 and 16 1.8 billion in the US See pages 1 and 17 See pages 6, 7 and 16 See page 17 Delivering our product pipeline for patients Tykerb Cervarix H5N1 Our new medicine for Our vaccine to prevent cervical cancer Our pandemic u vaccine advanced breast cancer European approval is expected in 2007 and a US ling by April 2007.
Was led for regulatory Was led for approval in the Cervarix offers up to 100 per cent protection against the two most approval in Europe in US in September and Europe common cancer-causing HPV types, the virus which causes cervical cancer January 2007 in October 2006, with further See pages 4 and 5 See pages 3 and 5 lings made in markets around the world in the last few months.
Seven phase III studies are currently in progress to investigate the 94 23 31 effect of Tykerb in patients with breast cancer and we New chemical entities in Vaccines in clinical Major product expect to le for additional clinical development at development at the end opportunities now in indications as results from the end of February 2007 of February 2007 phase III development these studies become or registration Comprises 15 in phase III Comprises 12 in phase III available registration, 46 in phase II registration, 8 in phase II Comprises 13 NCEs, See pages 4 and 5 and 33 in phase I and 3 in phase I 6 vaccines and 12 PLEs See pages 3 and 5 See pages 3 and 5 See page 3 Improving access to medicines Being the best place for the best people to do their best work 206m 302m 1st 91% Tablets of Combivir and Value of community Managers rated their overall Of managers believe Epivir HIV AIDS medicines investment in 2006 satisfaction with GSK higher colleagues show commitment supplied to developing We make donations of than any of our peers in the to performance with countries money, medicines, vaccines, benchmark group of major integrity This includes 120 million time and equipment to companies Result from our biennial Global tablets supplied by generic support good causes Result from our biennial Leadership Opinion Survey 2006 manufacturers licensed by GSK Equivalent to 3.9% of Global Leadership Opinion Maintained at same level 63% increase over 2005 profit before tax Survey 2006 from 2004 survey See page 9 See pages 12 and 13 See pages 10 and 11 See pages 10 and 11 3 Countering a pandemic 5 Offering hope 11 Making a difference 13 Delivering education Review of 2006 Chairmans and CEOs summary Every day we are involved in a race that unites more than 100,000 people at GSK: in nding new medicines and vaccines that meet unmet medical needs: in ensuring that patients have access to these new medicines regardless of their financial circumstances: and in meeting the expectations of our many stakeholders, including you our shareholder.
It is a race with many stages and we wont win them all.
But, as we take part, we never forget the real focus of our efforts: the human race.
006 was a year of positive achievement Delivering our pipeline for patients Contents for GSK as we continued to make Our pipeline is significant, with 158 projects in 1 Chairmans and CEOs 2progress on all fronts.
Sales growth is clinical development at the end of February summary coming from an ever-widening portfolio of fast- 2007.
2 Helping people do more, feel growing products that, combined with good Although we had some setbacks during the better and live longer cost control, has enabled us to deliver a strong year, including cancellation of Redona for 3 Our pipeline: from lling to financial performance.
We also have very diabetes, we have a great ability to reload our owing healthy momentum in our pipeline, with ten pipeline.
And it is beginning to ow strongly, new products added to our late-stage 7 Key products are performing delivering much-needed new treatments for development efforts in the last 12 months.
For well patients and opportunities for us.
We now have all these reasons, we look to the future with 9 Access to medicines: making 31 major product opportunities in phase III confidence.
the difference development or registration and we plan to Financial performance and outlook launch five major new pharmaceutical products 11 Being the best place for the best people to do their Your company delivered a strong financial in 2007: Tykerb for breast cancer, Cervarix to best work performance in 2006.
Turnover of 23.2 billion prevent cervical cancer, Allermist Avamys for is an increase of 9 per cent at constant exchange allergic rhinitis, Coreg CR for heart conditions 13 Running our business rates CER.
Earnings per share EPS were 95.5 and Trexima for migraine.
responsibly and playing our part in the community pence, with growth of 19 per cent.
Our Consumer Healthcare portfolio will also be 14 2006 performance This performance was driven by sales of key strengthened in 2007 with the launch of ten overview pharmaceutical products including Seretide products, including alli, the first FDA-approved 16 Business operating review Advair for asthma and chronic obstructive OTC treatment for weight loss in the US.
pulmonary disease COPD, the Avandia 18 The Board Best place to work group of products for diabetes, Coreg for We work hard to create a working environment 19 The Corporate Executive heart disease, Lamictal for epilepsy and Team where the best people can do their best work bipolar disorder, Valtrex for herpes, and our and the results of our biennial employee opinion 20 Summary Remuneration vaccines.
survey demonstrated that we are enjoying real Report Although we performed well in a tough success.
For overall satisfaction, GSK scored 23 Corporate governance environment, the US political climate together higher than any of our peers in the benchmark 24 Responsibility statements with investor concern over pipeline delays group of major companies and 90 per cent of 25 Summary financial resulted in our share price ending the year 9 managers are proud to work for GSK.
statements per cent lower than at 1 January 2006.
Playing our part 26 Summary information Looking ahead, we expect new clinical data to In 2006, our global community investment under US GAAP help deliver growth from Seretide Advair and contributions were valued at 302 million, 27 Shareholder information the Avandia group of products, and continued equivalent to 3.9 per cent of Group profit good performance from our vaccines business.
This is a significant sum, but such 29 Chairmans and CEOs We plan to launch new products in both our closing letter commitment is no less than should be expected pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare from a company in our industry.
In addition, we expect to continue capability and the desire to reach out to patients The Groups practice is to to achieve savings through improved and to nd solutions to healthcare challenges discuss its results in terms of operational efficiency.
The combination of new worldwide, helping people do more, feel better constant exchange rate CER products and enhanced efficiency will help growth see page 16. and live longer.
offset the impact of generic competition to Zofran and Wellbutrin XL during the coming 12 months and we expect to deliver 2007 EPS Sir Christopher Gent JP Garnier To nd out more please visit growth of 8 to 10 per cent in CER terms.
Chairman Chief Executive officer www.
com GSK Annual Review 2006 1 Helping people do more, feel better and live longer Our business is built on four strategic objectives and we made good progress on all of them in 2006.
Cancer: This time its personal Diabetes: Life is bittersweet In 2006, we made excellent progress with our In 2006, our key products continued to grow, pipeline, particularly with medicines for cancer.
including the Avandia group of products for Our unique structure for R&D lets innovation diabetes.
Our medicines, vaccines and consumer thrive and is delivering new breakthrough healthcare products meet patient needs and treatments for patients.
deliver value for those paying individuals, organisations or governments.
CGI Brandsense: illustrations 12.01.07 CGI Brandsense: illustrations 12.01.07 Delivering our product pipeline for patients.
Optimising the performance of key products.
Malaria: Reality bites People: Joined-up thinking In 2006, we continued to provide products such In 2006, our leadership opinion survey showed as antimalarials, antiretrovirals and vaccines at that 90 per cent of managers are proud to work preferential prices.
We are nding innovative ways for GSK.
People thrive in our distinctive culture to bring medicines, vaccines and health education of high performance, responsible business to patients in all countries, including those practices and openness to new ideas.
suffering from epidemics and neglected diseases.
Being the best place for the best people Improving access to medicines, both in the to do their best work.
developed and the developing world.
See page 10 See page 8 All of these objectives are underpinned by a commitment to run our business in a responsible way.
Responsibility: Now wash your hands?
We will never step aside from our responsibilities.
In 2006, we carried out many projects which are making a real difference to communities worldwide, including expanding our hand-washing education programme PHASE to more countries.
We believe in running our business responsibly and in playing our part for the benefit of society.
Running our business responsibly and playing our part in the community.
See page 12 GSK Annual Review 2006 2 Review of 2006 Delivering our product pipeline for patients Our pipeline: from lling to owing Our approach to R&D is focused on letting innovation thrive and is delivering new breakthrough treatments for patients ffective R&D is all about being consistently To offset this, well continue to exploit our ability excellent at all stages of the process, says to reload the pipeline.
When we ll the pipeline EMoncef Slaoui, Chairman of R&D and the with more new compounds at one end, we man who succeeded Tachi Yamada in June dramatically increase the probability that more Countering a pandemic 2006.
Weve been good in fact very good new medicines will be delivered from the other.
Emmanuel Hanon is Vice at lling our R&D pipeline in recent years, In addition, in the last few months, we have inPresident of our inuenza transforming the pipeline into one of the most licensed three assets in late-stage development, vaccine franchise at GSK powerful in the industry.
But now we are Biologicals.
Based at which will complement our existing pipeline: focused on owing products through that Rixensart in Belgium, he pipeline to patients.
leads the team responsible Late-stage assets in-licensed: for developing our H5N1 HuMax-CD20 for the treatment of We now have 31 major product opportunities in bird u vaccine.
leukaemia, non-Hodgkins lymphoma and phase III development or registration, comprising rheumatoid arthritis Statistically, the world sees 13 new chemical entities NCEs, 6 new vaccines a u pandemic every 30 gepirone ER for major depressive disorder and 12 product line extensions PLEs.
But the H5N1 strain of XP13512 for restless legs syndrome and the virus which is escalating treatment of neuropathic pain Major NCEs and vaccines in phase III in the bird population development: globally is potentially one Restructuring for tomorrow ambrisentan for pulmonary arterial of the most deadly weve We need to work with the worlds best talent hypertension ever experienced.
It has the Lymphostat-B for lupus and globalise the R&D function.
Having capability to jump from birds to humans.
casopitant for post-operative and established a centre in Croatia in 2006, our next chemotherapy-induced vomiting and nausea step will be to open a new research centre in Since the late 1990s, GSK has pazopanib for prevention of tumour growth China.
We expect to announce further details been working to develop a mepolizumab for hypereosinophilic syndrome vaccine capable of ghting on this during 2007, says Moncef.
Promacta for patients with low platelet count a u pandemic.
The process GSK led the industry with its creation of Centres picked up speed in 2005 New generation u vaccine of Excellence for Drug Discovery CEDDs, which and in the space of just Globorix a new combination paediatric allow us to focus skills and resources on 18 months we achieved vaccine against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, something unique in our particular disease areas to speed up the drug hepatitis B, Hib, and meningitis A and C industry we actually discovery process.
In 2007 we plan to open new New meningitis vaccine against meningitis C developed an effective CEDDs for both inammation and infectious and Y, and Hib vaccine from start to nish.
Also, with the acquisition of Domantis Synorix vaccine to provide protection Usually this would take in December, we have strengthened our against meningitis, pneumonia and otitis 10 years.
Biopharmaceuticals CEDD which investigates Major NCEs and vaccines led: Its hard to over-emphasise large molecules like monoclonal antibodies.
the importance of this Allermist Avamys for allergic rhinitis: US vaccine.
I have a family and approval expected in first half of 2007 Our Centre of Excellence for External Drug as soon as the vaccine is Altabax Altargo for skin infections: approval Discovery CEEDD has also continued to build made available, you can be expected in 2007 entrepreneurial partnerships with world-class sure that Ill vaccinate my Entereg post-operative ileus: approval biotechnology companies, including EPIX own children.
If countries expected in 2007 Pharmaceuticals, Galapagos, Pharmacopeia and and governments think Tykerb for breast cancer: US and first ahead and stockpile the ChemoCentryx during 2006.
The CEEDDs goal European approval expected in first half of 2007 vaccine, I believe theyll be is to supplement the GSK pipeline with assets Cervarix vaccine to prevent cervical cancer: able to minimise the impact developed through external alliances.
European and International launches expected of a pandemic in terms of In 2007, GSKs new clinical imaging centre at fatalities in their population in second half of 2007 as well as damage to their Hammersmith hospital in London will be fully H5N1 pandemic vaccine economies.
We have invested entered late-stage development in the last 12 months 46 million in the Centre.
It is an exciting collaboration with Imperial College and evidence While 2006 was a year of considerable of our continuing commitment to experimental achievement, there were also some setbacks.
Research will focus on cancer, stroke, R&D can be a risky business and we saw neurological diseases such as Parkinsons and Redona, our diabetes drug, and brecanavir, a multiple sclerosis, and psychiatric diseases.
potential medicine for HIV AIDS, both fall by the wayside.
Setbacks like these go with the territory Given everything we are working on, I am To nd out more please visit and are part of life at a pharmaceutical company.
com GSK Annual Review 2006 3 Cancer: This time its personal Cancer touches all our lives.
Its a leading cause of death worldwide, one that killed 7.6 million people last year alone, according to the World Health Organization WHO.
At GSK, were attacking the disease on several fronts.
The response The race Cancer is a generic term for a range 2006 was a remarkable year for our oncology team.
During the year, we had of diseases caused by normal cells changing to grow in an uncontrolled five potential cancer medicines running in parallel in phase III trials and over 50 way.
This uncontrolled growth can cause a lump called a tumour to per cent of the companys work with regulatory bodies concerned cancer develop.
How much heartache lies behind such a simple, bald statement?
The truth is In addition to the landmarks we passed with Tykerb for breast cancer that cancer doesnt just kill.
It can disable the patient and cause untold and Cervarix for cervical cancer, which are featured on page 5, our cancer misery for the friends and family of the patient too.
And it touches the portfolio has progressed on a number of important fronts.
lives of everybody on our planet at some point.
HuMax-CD20 is in phase III trials for Breast cancer is the most common the treatment of leukaemia and nonHodgkins lymphoma and in phase II cancer among women.
According to the WHO, there are more than 500,000 for rheumatoid arthritis.
The cancer Pazopanib blocks the development of develops in the milk-producing glands new blood vessels that feed tumour in the breast or in the passages or ducts growth and entered phase III trials this that deliver milk to the nipple.
Some year as a treatment for renal cancer.
breast cancers spread to other parts of We also anticipate success with two the body.
supportive care products, which Cervical cancer kills more than improve treatment but do not 250,000 women each year source: themselves ght cancer.
Promacta WHO and disproportionately affects eltrombopag is a developmental oral the poorest because they are seldom medicine that improves the growth of screened.
Cervical cancer is caused by blood platelets, which will help reduce the human papillomavirus HPV, bleeding in patients receiving pictured above, a sexually-transmitted chemotherapy or suffering from virus to which almost every woman Hepatitis C so they can continue will be exposed during her lifetime.
Casopitant aims to reduce chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting and therefore allow patients to continue a course of chemotherapy that may otherwise be curtailed.
GSK Annual Review 2006 4 Review of 2006 Delivering our product pipeline for patients Delivering hope to cancer patients effective and well-tolerated in women aged 2006 was a great year, says Paolo Paoletti, 10-55.
In a recently published study, Cervarix Senior Vice President of our Oncology Medicine offered up to 100 per cent protection against Development Centre.
Several promising new the two most common cancer-causing HPV medicines for cancer are in late stage clinical types.
trials and during the year we enrolled over Cervarix was led in Europe and many of our 4,000 patients in trials, an increase of 185 per International markets during 2006 and cent compared to 2004 and an indication of preparations are currently underway to le in the the strength of our cancer treatment pipeline.
US, says Philippe Monteyne, VP Global Vaccine The ling of Tykerb, our treatment for advanced Development.
The indications are that Cervarix Offering hope breast cancer, was a landmark and is likely to be could work for a wide age range and for a long Sue Perlo participated in followed by a succession of other cancer-related clinical trials of Tykerb, period of time, with immune response time products see page 4. our treatment for advanced already stretching to more than four years.
Tykerb can improve the quality of life for Growing our vaccines pipeline She is 60 years old and lives patients, giving them the treatment they need in Houston, Texas.
Philippe Monteyne believes that ours is the at home with a simple, orally-taken tablet, richest vaccine pipeline in the industry.
Were I was diagnosed with whereas alternative treatments have to be very proud of both the number of potential breast cancer in April of injected or infused at a clinic.
Not only is this 2005, during a follow-up products and the fact that they are in all more convenient for the patient, it also ties up ultrasound about a month stages, he says.
fewer resources for the health provider.
The indications are that Cervarix could Because Tykerb is a small-molecule medicine, it My tumours grew work for a wide age range and for a is tiny enough to move through the cancer cell aggressively over the next long period of time membrane and stick to the damaging HER2 few weeks, and then I protein.
Tykerb stops the cell from dividing and turned to my doctor and Currently in phase III development, Synorix is the cancer cell therefore dies.
asked, OK, what do we designed as a dual pathogen vaccine developed do now?
After originally The independent data monitor asked us to stop to prevent meningitis, pneumonia and otitis.
feeling scared and unsure, one of our pivotal phase III Tykerb trials early, 2007 will be an important year for Synorix and I calmed down and added such was the evidence of its efcacy, adds breast cancer to the list of we expect that further progress with clinical Paolo.
We led for approval in the US in things that I have and will studies will lead to ling for approval in Europe conquer.
September and in Europe the following by the end of the year.
Then I became a participant extensive portfolio of meningitis vaccines in the Tykerb clinical trial.
We have applied for an initial indication for My experience taking Tykerb Tykerb for treatment of advanced or metastatic We have a therapeutic vaccine for lung cancer, was nothing like I had HER2 positive breast cancer, in combination anticipated cancer treatment MAGE-A3, moving into phase III trials and our with capecitabine, in women whose breast to be, because I could do it malaria vaccine continues to make good at home.
I was pretty much cancer has progressed on other therapies.
Towards the end of able to go about my daily expect further indications to follow as results the year we also received data demonstrating routine.
I didnt have to sit from ongoing phase III trials emerge.
that our new generation seasonal u vaccine in the infusion laboratory, generated greater immune responses for those hooked up to a machine for The independent data monitor asked a few hours a week, like we over 65, compared to a traditional seasonal u us to stop one of our pivotal Tykerb have to with intravenous vaccine.
trials early, such was the evidence of chemo treatments.
After my clinical trial therapy, its efcacy In addition, we will be ling Rotarix, the only my tumours shrank and that two dose oral vaccine giving protection gave me added strength to Cervical cancer is the second most common against severe rotavirus diarrhoea, for be even more positive about cancer in women worldwide, with almost approval in the US during the first half of my future.
Rotarix is now registered in 78 human papillomavirus HPV, a sexually countries worldwide and generated initial transmitted virus, and all sexually active women sales of 44 million in 2006. are potentially at risk.
Screening can detect the Rising to the challenge of a u pandemic early signs of cervical cell abnormalities, allowing An inuenza pandemic isnt inevitable but early and prompt treatment.
Without a experts remain deeply concerned about the significant improvement in prevention of cervical likelihood of an outbreak, says David Stout, cancer, it is estimated there will be a million new President of Worldwide Pharmaceuticals.
cases a year by 2050 source: International Where and when it will strike is the cause of Agency for Research on Cancer.
What is not open to question is the fact Clinical trials carried out in 2006 suggest that that GSK is developing a twin response to To nd out more please visit Cervarix, our vaccine to prevent HPV, is highly counter the threat of H5N1. }
com GSK Annual Review 2006 5 Diabetes: Life is bittersweet Our pipeline is vital but we also focus our minds and resources on maximising the performance of our existing key products.
This is the best way to build sales while also improving quality of life for patients.
A good example is the way in which were extending our capability in diabetes, through the Avandia group of products.
The response The race Diabetes is a common condition, with Avandia is an oral antidiabetic medicine which acts primarily by allowing the around 246 million people worldwide suffering from the disease, according body to use its own insulin more effectively.
It improves blood sugar to the International Diabetes Federation IDF.
Around 90% of these people have control in adults with type 2 diabetes.
Obesity and physical During 2006, two important outcome inactivity are the risk factors most trials indicated that the use of Avandia frequently associated with diabetes.
may lead to better results with two groups of patients those in the early Type 2 diabetes is a chronic, progressive illness often linked to stages of type 2 diabetes and those who have yet to develop it pre-diabetes.
It is characterised by high blood sugar levels that occur In September 2006, the DREAM when the body does not produce Diabetes Reduction Assessment with enough insulin or does not respond ramipril and rosiglitazone Medication properly to its own natural insulin, trial showed that Avandia can reduce a condition called insulin resistance.
the risk of progression from pre-diabetes Sugar then builds up in the blood to type 2 diabetes in high risk patients instead of going into the cells and by 62 per cent, relative to placebo.
starves the cells of energy.
Over time, Three months later, ADOPT A high blood sugar levels can cause Diabetes Outcome Progression Trial diabetes-related complications, demonstrated that Avandia reduced the affecting the eyes, kidneys, nerves rate of monotherapy failure by 32 per or heart.
cent compared to the most commonly A condition known as impaired prescribed oral antidiabetic agent.
glucose intolerance or pre-diabetes Data from both these studies are is considered a key stage in the expected to be led with regulatory development of type 2 diabetes agencies during the first half of 2007. trials have shown that 29 to 55 per cent of those with pre-diabetes will develop type 2 within three years.
The number of people with pre-diabetes is expected to increase to approximately 500 million by 2025 source: IDF.
GSK Annual Review 2006 6 Review of 2006 Optimising the performance of key products Firstly, we have invested 100 million to increase 8 million doses in the event of an actual production capacity for Relenza, our antiviral u pandemic.
treatment, and the 10 millionth pack produced Greater innovation for consumers in 2006 left the production line in December.
We are increasing the value of our pipeline of This performance is 20 times the original new Consumer Healthcare products by focusing capacity of our manufacturing sites.
We are looking for innovation wherever we can nd it, inside or GSK is developing a twin response to outside the company something we call Open counter the threat of H5N1 Innovation, says Ken James, our head of R&D Fighting diabetes for Consumer Healthcare.
We have also Secondly, the prospects for our H5N1 vaccine are Married with two daughters, increased alignment between R&D and our excellent.
Our proprietary adjuvant system allows Julieta Camacho is a 58-yearglobal brand teams so we understand us to produce an effective vaccine at much lower old diabetic from Mexico consumers needs better and can deliver more dosage levels than was at first thought possible.
On the advice of her innovative products that meet those needs.
This means we can increase production doctor, she switched to approximately 10-fold so that more people Avandia initially and then We expect to launch 10 new products in 2007, to Avandamet.
worldwide can be inoculated against H5N1.
including alli, the first FDA-approved OTC In May 2000, I was sent to Our H5N1 pandemic vaccine was led in weight-loss treatment in the US, Aquafresh hospital with a diabetic January 2007 and has already been pre-sold in White Trays to whiten teeth, Sensodyne coma diagnosis.
Although some countries, says David.
Switzerland, for Pronamel, the first toothpaste designed to I showed blood glucose example, has ordered 8 million doses for preprotect teeth from acid erosion, and an levels of over 500mg, I did pandemic use, one for each member of its extension to our range of Commit lozenges that not know I was diabetic.
population, and has also reserved capacity for help people stop smoking.
I received antibiotics, solutions and insulin for some days, followed by various doses of metformin.
Key products are performing well Due to a lack of response, I then received Avandia We deliver medicines and vaccines that meet patient needs and deliver value once a day.
My glucose levels improved and I felt much better.
Then in 2004 Globally, 2006 was also a strong year for ales of key pharmaceutical and consumer my doctor advised me to Lamictal, for bi-polar depression and epilepsy, healthcare products continued to grow change to Avandamet twice and this product is now a near 1 billion brand.
Sin 2006 and to deliver benets for both a day, to stabilise my glucose patients and our shareholders.
I also had to continue Sales of Coreg, for heart disease, grew by 38 per my diet and regime of Improved pharmaceutical performance cent to 779 million.
We will launch Coreg CR, physical activity.
Pharmaceutical turnover rose 9 per cent to a once-a-day product, in March 2007.
My glucose levels are now 20.1 billion, driven by a strong performance in Valtrex for herpes performed well, with sales up almost normal all the time, the United States where sales were up 16 per but the most important by 24 per cent to 845 million, driven by patients cent to 10.4 billion.
Sales in Europe were thing is that I can have a switching to suppression therapy, particularly in impacted by generic competition to several more normal life.
products, although overall turnover rose by 1 visit to the doctor was three months ago and he tells me per cent to over 5.5 billion.
Sales in Sales of key products continued to that I am stable, that my International markets increased by 6 per cent grow and to deliver benets for both diabetes is well controlled to 4.2 billion, with sales in Japan up 8 per cent and that my health has patients and our shareholders to 860 million.
The doctor is optimistic and says Seretide Advair, for asthma and COPD, Vaccines have been a major success story for us, that my prognosis is good.
performed well globally with sales rising 11 per with sales up 23 per cent to 1.7 billion, adds cent to 3.3 billion.
One of the milestones of David.
Infanrix, Paediarix and Fluarix all 2006 was the TORCH study, which we believe performed well and we brought a new vaccine, will have a major impact on treatment for COPD FluLaval, to market in the US.
Were now one of patients says David Stout.
Applications to the largest providers of u vaccines in the world.
extend the indication for COPD on the label for Total sales of Boostrix, Fluarix FluLaval and Seretide Advair to include a mortality claim have Rotarix reached 274 million, up 91 per cent.
been made in markets worldwide.
Of our high potential products, we saw Sales of our Avandia group of products for encouraging sales for Avodart, for enlarged diabetes increased by 25 per cent to 1.6 billion.
prostate, up 69 per cent to 216 million, and in We also received results of two very positive its first full year, our share of co-promotion outcome trials DREAM and ADOPT.
See income for Boniva Bonviva, for osteoporosis, was To nd out more please visit page 6 for details.
Requip, for Parkinsons disease and } www.
com GSK Annual Review 2006 7 Malaria: Reality bites se: illustrations 12.01.07 CGI Brandsense: illustrations 12.01.07 CGI Brandsense: illustrations 12.01.07 CGI Brandsense: illustrations 12.01.07 Access to healthcare remains a complex challenge in many parts of the developed and developing world.
We are committed to nding innovative solutions in order to provide medicines to those who need them most.
snap points to points to create link girl finish arm if required.
boy finish arm if required.
points will snap to body when points will snap to body when original arm is removed.
The race The response We work to make a difference in The stark reality is that almost half of the worlds population is at risk four ways: of contracting malaria.
Worldwide, the Through R&D into the diseases WHO estimates there are 500 million particularly prevalent in the cases each year.
This work is funded through a combination of GSK-funded Poverty and a lack of political determination mean that countless programmes and innovative publicprivate partnerships like the Medicines people around the globe are denied access to the medicines that they for Malaria Venture need.
Millions of people in subThrough our programme of Saharan Africa exist on less than $1 preferential pricing for antimalarials, a day.
Many people struggle to afford HIV AIDS medicines and vaccines basic headache pills, so relatively Through voluntary licensing of our expensive treatments such as those key HIV AIDS medicines to generic for malaria and HIV AIDS are even manufacturers in Africa more inaccessible.
Little wonder, perhaps, that child mortality is 29 Through community investment times that of industrialised countries.
programmes, such as those outlined on pages 12 and 13 of this review A significant increase in funding is required.
Sustainable progress will For example, in terms of malaria we only be achieved if the barriers to made good progress across all areas.
access financial and cultural are Phase III studies began for a potential addressed by all sectors of society: new antimalarial treatment and phase II governments, international agencies, trials for our malaria vaccine are charities, academic institutions and, progressing well.
We also continue to yes, pharmaceutical companies such make all our antimalarials available at as GSK.
not-for-profit prices to a wide range of countries.
These prices cover our costs but we do not make a profit.
This means we can sustain supply of these products for as long as they are needed.
And GSKs African Malaria Partnership is working to increase awareness, political commitment and funding to combat this disease through many advocacy initiatives.
GSK Annual Review 2006 8 Review of 2006 Improving access to medicines restless legs syndrome, performed strongly in the support program, adds John.
Approved for US and will be boosted by two follow-on use by overweight adults in conjunction with products, Requip CR for restless leg syndrome a reduced-calorie, low-fat diet, alli helps and Requip XL 24-Hour for Parkinsons disease, people lose 50 per cent more weight than with both of which have now been led in the US.
Total sales of Requip in 2006 grew 74 per cent Additionally, with the acquisition of CNS to 268 million.
towards the end of 2006, we brought two leading brands into our portfolio.
Breathe In 2007, we also expect to launch Trexima, for Right and FiberChoice are leaders in their migraine, and Wellbutrin XR, for depression, categories in the US and provide another which was approved in Europe in January 2007.
Supporting people in need growth opportunity.
Using our scale and A 50-year-old self-employed Consumer Healthcare continues to grow construction worker from expertise, we will introduce these products 2006 saw our Consumer Healthcare business Virginia in the US, William into markets worldwide.
unlock its growth potential across the portfolio, Commercial and operational excellence He cannot afford health says John Clarke, President, Consumer insurance the cost would We continue to improve the performance of Healthcare.
Consumer Healthcare sales were consume more than half of our sales teams, says David Stout.
This has 3.1 billion, a 6 per cent increase over 2005 at his income.
been recognised in the US where we tied as CER.
We are driving growth through greater Access to health care and best overall pharmaceutical company among innovation and more effective marketing medication to treat disease managed care medical directors in an strategies on strong brands.
Sales of Sensodyne can be as much of an issue in independent autumn 2006 survey.
grew strongly, up by 19 per cent, Lucozade grew the developed world as it is by 14 per cent, smoking control by 7 per cent in places like Africa.
In the Our consumer brand portfolio will be US, more than 46 million and Panadol by 6 per cent.
Aquafresh sales strengthened further in 2007 with the people lacked health declined 3 per cent to 283 million.
launch of ten new products insurance in 2006 source: Our consumer brand portfolio will be US Census Bureau.
strengthened further in 2007 with the launch In terms of operational excellence, we again Through the RxPartnership, of ten new products, including alli, the only identied areas of spend where global sourcing GSK provides medication to FDA-approved weight-loss product available can generate savings.
We now concentrate free clinics that treat lowincome, medically-uninsured to consumers without a prescription, and it is some of our financial services, IT support and IT people.
The Rockbridge Area the first clinically-proven over-the-counter lifecycle management in low cost countries such Free Clinic is one of 53 free product to be combined with a comprehensive as India which offer tremendous talent.
clinics that serve over 61,000 low-income people in Virginia.
One such individual is William, who takes our Access to medicines: making the difference medicine Advair.
We nd innovative ways to bring medicines and vaccines to patients Once I started taking Advair, I could breathe so much who need them, in both the developing and developed world easier, he says.
I feel so much better and can do here has always been a healthcare crisis In 2006, manufacturing efficiencies reduced the more at work.
In addition to asthma, I also have in the developing world, says Jon cost of making some of our HIV AIDS products hypertension.
My wife TPender, a Director in our Government by up to 30 per cent and we passed these suffers from hypertension, Affairs team with responsibility for access issues.
savings on in terms of lower prices.
We also diabetes and associated For example, many Africans in the subadded two antiretrovirals ARVs to the portfolio neuropathy, and heart Saharan region dont have enough food or of not-for-profit medicines, says Jon.
We receive all water, let alone medicines.
September, we announced an agreement with of our care from the the Russian Government to supply over 90,000 Rockbridge Area Free Clinic But we can still make a difference.
JP Garnier is and between us we take 15 treatment packs of ARVs by the year end.
The on record as saying that he wants to provide medications every month.
first direct, federal purchase of ARVs in Russia, medicines to all patients, not just the worlds this included supplies of Combivir, Epivir and The cost of these richest people.
That sounds like a nice line in medications at a retail Ziagen, which are mainstay treatments for HIV.
corporate mantra, but actually its the sincerelypharmacy would exceed held view of all of us at GSK.
In addition, we have now granted a total of $1,000 per month an eight voluntary licences for our key HIV AIDS impossibility, given Williams Making a difference to HIV AIDS patients low income.
medicines to generic manufacturers in Africa.
In total, including eligible Global Fund and PEPFAR US Presidents Emergency Plan For AIDS We also operated 19 HIV AIDS projects in local Relief projects, our HIV AIDS and malaria communities worldwide through our Positive treatments are offered at not-for-profit prices to Action programme to help overcome poor eligible customers in over 100 countries, many understanding of transmission, diagnosis and To nd out more please visit } www.
com of which have very low healthcare budgets.
the stigma associated with this disease.
GSK Annual Review 2006 9 People: Joined-up thinking We want to be the best place for the best people to do their best work, as individuals and as part of a team.
How are we performing against that target?
Very well, according to our latest leadership opinion survey, although there is certainly no room for complacency.
The race The response In May, we carried out our bi-annual The workplace is changing, and fast.
Attitudes to work and careers that were leadership opinion survey which benchmarks us against 39 other major commonplace just a decade ago now seem outdated and redundant.
We achieved the highest score of any company on According to the US Bureau of Labor employee satisfaction, with 85 per cent Statistics, by 2010 there will be 10 of employees who responded million more jobs than qualied expressing overall satisfaction with GSK, candidates in the US and 16 million up from 73 per cent in 2004 and some by 2015 as the last of the baby boomers 20 points ahead of the mean score of retire.
In fact 76 million Americans will comparison companies.
90 per cent are retire by 2010 and the number of proud to be part of GSK, up from 83 workers aged 55 and over is growing per cent in 2004. four times faster than the labour force In fact in almost all cases, our scores as a whole.
In the UK, there is almost full employment.
China has a huge were well above those of two years ago.
Compared to our peers, we not hunger for skills and is already experiencing major talent shortages.
only exceeded the mean but in several instances achieved the highest score This picture is repeated around the world as demand for knowledge as well.
workers outstrips the ability of the Following our last survey in 2004, we population to supply them.
carried out an action plan to address The baby boomers have boomed and the areas where we performed less than satisfactorily, says Sherry Stuckey, bust.
In their wake, a new set of imperatives are taking root.
There are VP Leadership and Organisation Development.
Its great to see fewer young people and what they want is different.
Millennial children how much weve improved as most departments saw a significant increase demand more social responsiveness, they want to make a positive in their scores in this years survey.
Salary and security are no longer enough.
GSK Annual Review 2006 10 Review of 2006 Being the best place for the best people to do their best work Helping people in the developed world medicines for free before they reach the gap in In 2006, our US access programmes provided Medicare coverage known as the donut hole.
medicines to over 400,000 US residents with Following the introduction of Part D, around 25 low income.
And in 2007 we have launched a to 30 per cent of those on our patient assistance new initiative called GSK Access to offer help to programmes are now eligible for Medicare and certain Medicare-eligible patients who need they no longer need to rely on GSK, which additional assistance.
explains why the value of our product donations Even though the Medicare Part D prescription was down this year against 2005, from $464 drug benefit has been a great success for many, million to $370 million.
we know that there are still patients who may Making a difference need help in getting their medicines, says Chris Nevertheless, we still gave away products Paul Smith joined GSK in Viehbacher, President of our US Pharmaceuticals valued at $1 million wholesale acquisition cost 1996 as a laboratory chemist before gaining broad business.
Most eligible patients can get GSK every single day of the year in 2006. experience in procurement and manufacturing.
Currently Manufacturing Being the best place for the best people Strategy Manager for Infectious Diseases, he has to do their best work an MBA with distinction We foster a distinctive culture of high performance, responsible from Tanaka Business School at the University of London.
business practices and openness to new ideas Whats so special about GSK?
Working here gives me the eople are our greatest asset.
That may be Working Mothers in the US for each of the chance to do the right thing a tired clich, but for us its also an last 15 years.
For all our large part of my job involves Looking ahead, succession planning plays a key HIV AIDS and access to investment in technology and products, it is role in the long term health of the business and medicines and I get a real people who discover new drugs and people who retaining the best people.
We have a wealth buzz out of it.
Its true that get medicines to those who need them most.
of exceptional talent at senior levels and are GSK is a commercial enterprise, but its also a recognised for our ability to foster great But ours is a competitive world.
The race to company that has the leaders, says Dan.
Planning is undertaken attract and then retain talent is being run potential to do great good annually so that we can provide our leaders of across every industry and in laboratories and in the world.
Life is not just the future with a career path that will develop ofces all over the world.
Recruitment is first about the share price!
the key skills they will need.
or second on almost every organisations list Since the merger, Ive seen of business priorities.
Performing with integrity the culture evolve.
Today, Id say its become more According to the leadership opinion survey, 91 Independent endorsement business and resultsper cent of respondents agree or strongly agree Our latest leadership opinion survey see page oriented.
At the same time, that colleagues in their department show 10, shows that were making good progress.
its a very friendly, pro-active commitment to performance with integrity, Almost across the board, our scores were well environment to work in.
maintaining the level from our 2004 survey.
above those of two years ago.
Many were also Managers, including the higher than the scores achieved by our peers.
senior executives, are openWe have a wealth of exceptional talent minded and approachable.
An independent survey, compiled every two They listen to what people at senior levels and are recognised for years by the Corporate Research Foundation in have to say.
our ability to foster great leaders association with The Guardian newspaper in GSK has won a lot of the UK, underlines those findings.
In the During 2006, we underlined our commitment recognition recently and Im Britains Top Employers 2007 survey, we not surprised.
I have friends to high ethical standards by raising awareness posted the fourth highest score out of 100 in industry and government of our Integrity Helpline, which is available to and when we get together companies, says Dan Phelan, our head of all employees, contractors, vendors and others.
Im one of the very few who human resources.
We scored 81.4 points, up All employees have an obligation to report wants to talk about the from 73.5 in 2005. adverse events for GSK products and can do so good things at work.
by clicking a button on our intranet homepage.
In November, JP Garnier was presented with the Hunt-Scanlon Human Capital Advantage Reducing pressure Award.
The award recognises JPs commitment To sustain energy and performance, we need to to attracting, developing and retaining top help our people get the most from their working talent in a way that increases employee loyalty, lives and to help them identify and address areas customer satisfaction and shareholder returns.
of excessive pressure to avoid stress.
So far, nearly 1,000 teams from all over the world In the US, we were named to the Hall of Fame more than 13,000 people have participated by Working Mother Magazine for being listed To nd out more please visit in training to help them deal with work } www.
com as one of the 100 Best Companies for GSK Annual Review 2006 11 Responsibility: Now wash your hands?
We will never wash our hands of our responsibilities.
Ours is a big business with the potential to make an impact not only in the communities where we operate but in the wider world too.
Through a range of global health programmes we aim to play our part to the full.
The race The response Sometimes its the simple things, such Every year, over 2.2 million people globally die because of diarrhoeal as basic education, that make the greatest difference.
Most of them are children.
Most live in developing For example, although hand-washing countries.
And its fair to say that for is something that most of us take for many the real cause of death is actually granted, it is not common practice ignorance of basic sanitation and throughout the world.
Even in those PHASE Personal Hygiene And Sanitation instances where the diarrhoea is Education is a simple hand-washing not fatal, it has a knock-on effect programme for school children that on the potential for the child to lift saves lives.
It improves personal hygiene themselves out of poverty, simply and sanitation practices by helping by missing too many days of school children understand how germs and because of illness.
parasites spread and cause diseases.
The According to the British Governments children take the lessons home, bringing Department for International improved health to the rest of the family.
Development, More investment PHASE began in 1998 and was first in health services, infrastructure implemented in Kenya, shortly followed and education is required to cut the by Nicaragua, Peru, Uganda, Zambia numbers of young children dying and Bangladesh, with startling results.
During 2006, the project moved into The problems caused by diarrhoea are Mexico and Tajikistan for the first time, not restricted to what many Westerners working with Save the Children.
For would think of as the developing many, Mexico is seen as a tourist world.
There are also challenges in destination, a near-neighbour of the America, Europe and Asia.
Yet diarrhoea is a real problem and we anticipate that PHASE will have a significant impact on lowering the incidence of the disease and also improving school attendance gures.
In the last 12 months, we also agreed funding to initiate a PHASE project in Nairobis Kibera slum, as well as in Bolivia, for 2007.
GSK Annual Review 2006 12 Review of 2006 Running our business responsibly and playing our part in the community pressures effectively, explains Bob Carr, VP Does it work?
Teams who Employee Health Management.
This consists of have participated in the process have reported an online assessment that focuses on the sources pressure due to work life conicts down by 25 of pressure and its outcomes.
The resulting report per cent and satisfaction with their work is an effective and efficient way for a manager to environment up 21 per cent, with a significant address issues that may be impeding team increase in willingness to experiment with new effectiveness and organisational success.
Delivering education Running our business responsibly and playing Kim Thi Huyen has taken part in a GSK-sponsored our part in the community midwifery training programme for ethnic We are committed to making a real difference where we can minorities in Vietnam.
Aged 25, Huyen lives in a village in Vinh Long province.
n 2006, our global community investment Positive Action is another long-term activities were valued at 302 million, programme thats making a real difference to Vietnams ethnic minorities have low standards of living, I equivalent to 3.9 per cent of our profit the challenges posed by HIV AIDS, adds healthcare and education.
before tax, down from 380 million in 2005.
We focus on strengthening Many are superstitious, The reduction was primarily due to the communities to help them look after people believing customs which say introduction of a new Medicare prescription living with HIV and AIDS.
In 2006, we that delivery must be drug benefit in the US, which meant fewer supported 19 programmes in 17 countries.
handled by husbands or patients needed to rely on our patient assistance relatives.
In some villages The GSK African Malaria Partnership continues they even believe that when programmes see page 11. to support the battle against a disease that kills the mother dies in childbirth, a child every 30 seconds.
In 2006, our the baby must also be buried In 2006, our global community Mobilising for Malaria advocacy initiative as its a sign of evil.
Its investment activities were valued difficult to convince them to launched national Coalitions Against Malaria in at 302 million go for prenatal check-ups, the UK, France, Belgium, Ethiopia and vaccinations or delivery at Cameroon to generate greater awareness, In the UK, we supported over 100 organisations the healthcare centres or political commitment and sustained funding to in health, medical research, science education, hospitals.
the arts and the environment.
In North America, More than 300 women have we focused on improving public education and Beyond these disease programmes, we have a already been trained and access to better healthcare for children and become midwives through wide range of partnerships focused on health this four-month training seniors.
Examples include the programme, which includes Barretstown camp in Ireland, where seriously ill We are pleased to have been recognised for basic healthcare for mothers children can enjoy therapeutic recreation, and our efforts, having received the prestigious and newborns as well as birth a travelling science laboratory in North Carolina.
GSK is the only Excellence in Corporate Philanthropy Award sponsor and they support our 2006 from the US-based Committee training, accommodation Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy CECP.
Running our business responsibly costs and daily expenses At GSK, corporate responsibility is built-in, while were in Ho Chi Minh Global health programmes not a bolt-on.
We want to run the business City, as well as post-training During 2006, we ran programmes in more in a way that society considers responsible.
than 100 countries, says Justine Frain, VP After my training, Ill use our Global Community Partnerships.
In August Achieving this in everything we do is ethnic language to explain we passed an important milestone in our most challenging, says Julia King, VP Corporate to the people in the villages far-reaching and long-term programme, with Responsibility.
Clearly, our core business the importance and benets the donation of our 500 millionth treatment to makes a valuable contribution to society of maternity healthcare.
eliminate lymphatic lariasis LF, which is but that doesnt mean we can ignore any of I believe that I can help sometimes known as elephantiasis.
This the issues associated with the research, mothers understand how important this is for devastating disease causes symptoms such as manufacture and sale of medicines.
themselves and their swollen legs, arms and genitals as well as Every year, we report on progress in children.
Eventually, I think debilitating fevers and pain.
upholding our responsibility principles, we can help to reduce mortality among newborns.
Our LF programme is an ambitious 20-year including improving access to medicines, partnership with the WHO and our donation ethical business practices and caring for the of albendazole will exceed 6 billion tablets.
Our Corporate Responsibility May we were delighted to receive the 2006 Report 2006 is available, from the end of World Business Award from the International March 2007, at www.
To nd out more please visit Chamber of Commerce for our work on LF.
com GSK Annual Review 2006 13 2006 performance overview Key performance indicators GSKs performance and development are Turnover, earnings per share growth driven by a number of important strategies and total shareholder return Strategies Optimising the performance of key products Turnover Both the Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare businesses bn focus on ways to improve the return from the Groups 24 intellectual property by maximising sales of key products.
23.2 GSKs activities include: 22 21.7 achieving worldwide sales force excellence 9% CER achieving Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare growth 20 20.0 marketing excellence 7% CER maintaining the highest ethical standards growth improving the cost-effectiveness of operations 2004 2005 2006 Earnings per share Pence 100 95.5 82.6 80 68.1 19% CER growth 60 Delivering the product pipeline for patients 18% CER GSK aims to create the best product pipeline in the industry for growth the benefit of society.
This includes developing a focused strategy 2004 2005 2006 to support the pipeline and manage the full life cycle of compounds from launch as prescription medicines through to Total shareholder return potentially becoming over-the-counter products.
150 GSK measures R&D productivity by the number and level of innovation of the products it creates, and by the ability to 125 address unmet patient needs.
100 Being the best place for the best people to do their best work 75 GSK is committed to creating the best place for the best people 1 1 04 31 12 04 31 12 05 31 12 06 to do their best work by: GSK Total Return Index GSK Pharma Peers Return Index FTSE100 Total Return Index recruiting and developing the best people in the industry supporting a culture of high reward for high performance Share price ensuring good communication and employee involvement US$ maintaining a diverse and healthy workforce 16 65 60 15 14 55 Improving access to medicines 13 50 GSK is nding innovative ways to bring medicines, vaccines and health education to patients in all countries, including those 12 45 suffering from epidemics and neglected diseases.
11 40 10 35 1 1 04 31 12 04 31 12 05 31 12 06 UK share price US ADR price US$ At 23 February 2007, the share price was 14.50 $56.92 per ADR GSK Annual Review 2006 14 Key developments in 2006 Total turnover grew 9% to 23.2 billion Pharmaceuticals up 9% to 20.1 billion: Consumer Healthcare up 6% to 3.1 billion Top ten Pharmaceutical products: Seretide Advair 3,313 million, up 11% Zofran 847 million, up 3% Vaccines products 1,692 million, up 23% Valtrex 845 million, up 24% Avandia group of products 1,645 million, up 25% Coreg 779 million, up 38% Lamictal 996 million, up 19% Imigran Imitrex 711 million, up 3% Wellbutrin 900 million, up 24% Flixotide Flovent 659 million, up 5% High potential products Avodart, Requip and Boniva delivered combined sales of 579 million Top five Consumer Healthcare products: Lucozade 301 million, up 14% Panadol 207 million, up 6% Aquafresh 283 million, down 3% Ribena 169 million, down 1% Sensodyne 257 million, up 19% Operating margin increased by 1.9 percentage points to 33.6% of turnover Continuing financial strength enabled the 2006 dividend to be increased to 48 pence 2005 44 pence A new share buy-back programme of 6 billion over three years was announced In February 2007, GSK had 158 pharmaceutical and vaccine projects in clinical development, compared with 149 in February 2006 31 major product opportunities were in phase III development or registration 13 NCEs, 6 new vaccines, 12 PLEs, including: Cervarix cervical cancer Coreg CR cardiovascular conditions Tykerb breast cancer Trexima migraine Allermist allergic rhinitis H5N1 pandemic u vaccine Late stage projects terminated included Redona for type 2 diabetes and brecanavir for HIV AIDS The Groups biennial global leadership survey of over 10,000 managers in 2006 showed: 91% 2004 91% of managers believed people in their department show commitment to performance with integrity 90% 2004 83% of managers were proud to be part of GlaxoSmithKline 86% 2004 77% of managers would gladly refer a friend or family member to work for GlaxoSmithKline In 2006, 36.3% of the global management population was female 2005 35.5% Global community investment was valued at 302 million, 3.9% of profit before tax The lymphatic lariasis elimination programme continued with another 155 million albendazole treatments donated, making almost 600 million treatments in total GSK shipped over 27 million Combivir tablets and nearly 59 million Epivir tablets to developing countries at not-for-profit prices.
Approximately 120 million tablets were supplied by generic manufacturers licensed by GSK Other international humanitarian product donations totalled 22 million GSK Annual Review 2006 15 Business operating review GSK delivers strong 2006 performance Pharmaceuticals Sales of Lamictal, for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder, GSKs ability to deliver continued pharmaceutical turnover growth grew 19% to just under 1 billion, benefiting from its new indication in 2006 was primarily due to an exceptionally broad product to treat one of the most serious forms of epilepsy primary portfolio of high-value growth products coupled with sales and generalised tonic-clonic seizures.
These growth products include Seretide Advair, the Avandia group of products, vaccines, Lamictal, Valtrex, Market share by value Coreg, Requip, Avodart and Boniva Bonviva.
Seretide Advair Avandia Avandamet 40% 37 GSK continues to be the global leader in Respiratory with sales of 35 33 33 its three key products, Seretide Advair, Flixotide Flovent and 29 30% 27 Serevent, amounting to 4.3 billion, up 9% on 2005.
Total sales of Seretide Advair, the Groups largest product, rose 11% to 3.3 20% 19 billion.
In the US, sales grew 13% to 1.9 billion.
In Europe, sales 14 grew 10% to 1.1 billion and in International markets, sales grew 10% 9% to over 300 million.
Market share by value in the anti-asthma and COPD therapy class Europe US Europe US was 29% in Europe and 33% in the US, an increase of 2 percentage September 2005 September 2006 points in Europe and a at market share in the US reecting lower prescription volumes due to a label change in early 2006 that Sales of Requip, for Parkinsons disease and Restless Legs Syndrome restricted GSKs ability to promote the product, offset by favourable RLS, grew 74% to 268 million and, in December, the FDA pricing changes.
accepted GSKs le for approval of the new formulation Requip CR.
Within Antivirals, sales of HIV products were 1.5 billion, down 1%.
Competition to older products, Combivir down 9% to 528 GSK turnover in 2006 grew 9%, driven by million and Epivir down 21% to 202 million, was mostly offset the growth of key products by strong sales growth of new products Epzicom Kivexa which more than doubled to 241 million and Lexiva up 18% to 131 million.
Sales of Valtrex, for herpes, rose 24% to 845 million, In Central nervous system, sales increased 15% to 3.6 billion.
Total with US sales up 30% to 600 million, driven by patients switching Seroxat Paxil sales grew 4% to 620 million, due to strong growth to suppression therapy.
of Paxil CR in the US and Paxil IR in Japan partly offset by generic competition to Paxil IR in Europe.
In Metabolic, sales of the Avandia group of products grew 25% to 1.6 billion.
In the US, sales grew 24% to 1.2 billion.
In Europe, Total Wellbutrin sales grew 24% to 900 million due to the sales grew 39% to 217 million driven by the increasing use of performance of Wellbutrin XL, a new once-daily product, which Avandamet.
Sales in International markets rose 19% to 234 million.
A generic competitor to the Wellbutrin The Avandia group of products achieved in 2006 a market share by XL 300mg tablet approximately 60% of Wellbutrin sales entered value in oral antidiabetics of 37% in the US and 19% in Europe up the US market in December 2006.
In the US, prescription volume growth was adversely impacted by product supply issues Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area: during the year, which have now been resolved.
2006 2005 Growth m m CER % In its first full year, our share of co-promotion income for Boniva Bonviva, a new once-monthly oral bisphosphonate for the Respiratory 4,995 5,054 treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis, was 95 million.
Central nervous system 3,642 3,219 15 Boniva Bonviva was developed with Roche and launched in 2005.
Antivirals 2,827 2,598 10 Vaccine sales increased 23% to 1.7 billion, with good performances Metabolic 1,875 1,495 27 from all regions: US sales rose 40% to 465 million, European sales Vaccines 1,692 1,389 23 grew 20% to 709 million and sales in International were up 13% Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,636 1,331 24 to 518 million.
Key contributors were Infanrix Pediarix, GSKs Antibacterials 1,369 1,519 9 combination vaccines for children, and hepatitis vaccines.
New Oncology and emesis 1,069 1,016 7 vaccines also helped drive overall sales growth.
Other 973 1,040 5 In Cardiovascular and urogenital, Coreg for heart disease grew 20,078 18,661 9 38% to 779 million.
Avodart for benign prostatic hyperplasia enlarged prostate had a very strong year, with sales increasing 69% to 216 million.
Presentation In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Groups practice to discuss Antibacterial sales declined 9% worldwide to 1.4 billion, reecting its results in terms of constant exchange rate CER growth.
This represents growth generic competition and a weaker u season.
calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the previous In Oncology and emesis, sales of Zofran grew 3% to 847 million, year.
All commentaries are presented in terms of CER unless otherwise stated.
driven by the US market, up 8% to 679 million.
GSK Annual Review 2006 16 Business operating review continued Competition Dividend The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.
GSKs principal The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 14 pence per competitors range from small to large pharmaceutical companies, share, resulting in a dividend for the year of 48 pence per share, a often with substantial resources.
Pharmaceuticals may be subject to 4 pence increase over the dividend of 44 pence per share for 2005. competition from other products during the period of patent Cash ow protection and, once off patent, from generic versions.
Following the The net cash inow from operating activities after taxation paid was loss of patent protection, generic products rapidly capture a large 4,357 million, a decrease of 1,601 million from 2005, arising share of the market.
For further details, please see Products and mainly from the gross taxation payment of $3.3 billion 1.8 billion Competition on pages 27 to 30 in the Annual Report 2006. under the US transfer pricing dispute settlement, partially offset by higher operating profits.
4 pence increase in dividend resulting in Free cash ow was 2.6 billion, a decrease of 44% versus 2005.
Free cash ow is the amount of cash generated by the business after 48 pence per share for the year meeting its obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid to minority interests, and after capital expenditure on non-current tangible and Consumer Healthcare sales intangible assets.
The growth in Consumer Healthcare sales of 6% to 3,147 million comprised an OTC medicines sales increase of 5% to 1,496 million, 2007 outlook an Oral care sales increase of 6% to 993 million and a Nutritional Sales growth of existing products and launch of new products are healthcare sales increase of 7% to 658 million.
key drivers of GSKs business performance.
The sales growth seen from key products such as Seretide Advair, the Avandia group of In OTC, growth was driven by Panadol, up 6%, and smoking control, products, vaccines, Lamictal, Valtrex, Coreg and the rising stars up 7%.
Requip, Avodart and Boniva Bonviva is expected to continue in In Oral care, sales of Sensodyne grew strongly, up 19%, although 2007 although this is likely to be offset by declines in Zofran, Flonase sales of Aquafresh were down 3%.
and Wellbutrin due to generic competition.
Within Nutritional healthcare, Lucozade, grew 14% and Horlicks, Five major new pharmaceutical product launches are expected in grew 6%.
These include Tykerb, for breast cancer, Cervarix, for cervical cancer in Europe, Allermist Avamys, for allergic rhinitis, Coreg CR, Operating profit for heart conditions, and Trexima, for migraine.
The operating profit margin increased 1.9 percentage points as operating profit increased 14% in sterling terms to 7,808 million.
GSKs consumer brand portfolio will be strengthened further in At constant exchange rates, operating profit increased 17% and 2007, with the launch of 10 products, including alli, a new treatment the margin increased 2.4 percentage points.
This reected SG&A growth below the rate of turnover growth, Several new products are expected to be led for approval with the partially offset by higher costs related to programmes to deliver regulatory authorities in 2007, including vaccine opportunities: US future cost savings and lower other operating income.
ling of Cervarix, Rotarix, for rotavirus, and the European ling of Synorix, a vaccine against meningitis, pneumonia and otitis.
GSK Taxation continues to progress the development of vaccines for use before, The charge for taxation on profit, amounting to 2,301 million, and in the event of, a u pandemic.
In January 2007, GSK submitted represents an effective tax rate of 29.5% 2005 28.5%.
its H5N1 vaccine to European regulators for approval for preAs reported last year, GSKs largest unresolved tax issues were with pandemic use.
the US Internal Revenue Service IRS and UK HM Revenue and GSK now has 31 major product opportunities in phase III Customs HMRC in respect of transfer prices related to the Glaxo development or registration, comprising 13 new chemical entities heritage products.
GSK also has open issues in Japan and Canada.
NCEs, 6 new vaccines and 12 product line extensions PLEs.
On 11 September 2006, GSK and the IRS agreed to a resolution of GSKs published earnings guidance for 2007 is that earnings per their dispute involving final net cash cost to the Group of share growth is expected to be 8% to 10% in CER terms.
The settlement resolved all transfer pricing issues for the period 1989 2005.
EPS 95.5 pence, growth of 19% See Note 12 to the financial statements, Taxation, in the Annual Report 2006 for further details.
Earnings per share Legal proceedings Full year earnings per share EPS increased 19% to 95.5 pence.
At The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative actual rates of exchange, earnings per share increased 16%.
The proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, tax, adverse currency impact of 3% on EPS reected the strength of antitrust and governmental investigations and related private sterling against other major currencies.
See Note 43 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, in the Annual Report 2006 for a discussion of proceedings and investigations in which the Group is involved.
GSK Annual Review 2006 17 The Board The Board of Directors is ultimately accountable for the Groups activities, strategy and financial performance.
Sir Christopher Gent Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier Dr Stephanie Burns Lawrence Culp Sir Crispin Davis Julian Heslop Sir Deryck Maughan Dr Daniel Podolsky Sir Ian Prosser Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Dr Moncef Slaoui Tom fide Swaan Sir Robert Wilson Sir Christopher Gent Aged 58 Dr Daniel Podolsky Aged 53 Appointed on 1 June 2004.
Sir Christopher was the Chief Appointed on 1 July 2006.
Dr Podolsky is Executive officer of Vodafone Group plc, until his retirement in July 2003.
Mallinkrodt Professor of Medicine and Chief of Gastroenterology at He is a Non-Executive Director of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, a NonMassachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School as well as Executive Director of Ferrari S. p. A. a member of KPMGs Chairmans Chief Academic officer of Partners HealthCare System.
He is past editorAdvisory Group, a member of the Financial Reporting Council, a Senior in-chief of the journal Gastroenterology, Past President of the American Adviser at Bain & Co. and a member of the advisory board of Reform.
Gastroenterological Association and Chairman of the Board and scientific Co-Founder of the GI Company.
Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier Aged 59 Appointed on 23 May 2000.
Dr Garnier was Sir Ian Prosser Aged 63 appointed an Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992, and Appointed on 23 May 2000.
Sir Ian was formerly became Chief Executive officer in April 2000.
He is a Non-Executive Director a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
He was Chairman and of United Technologies Corporation and a member of the Board of Trustees Chief Executive of Bass plc and ultimately Chairman of the demerged of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships.
He holds a PhD in pharmacology InterContinental Hotels Group plc.
He was Chairman of the World Travel and from the University of Louis Pasteur in France and an MBA from Stanford Tourism Council and the London Stock Exchange Listed Advisory Council.
is Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc, a Non-Executive Director of Sara Lee Corporation and a member of the CBI Presidents Committee.
Dr Stephanie Burns Aged 52 Appointed on 12 February 2007.
Dr Burns is Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Aged 68 Chairman, President and Chief Executive officer of Dow Corning Appointed on 23 May 2000.
She is also a member of the American Chemical Society and formerly a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is a Nonsits on the Executive Committee of the Society of Chemical Industry, Executive Director of Legal & General Group plc and a member of the Board America Section, serves on the American Chemistry Council, on the Board of Directors of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot Corporation and a of Directors for the Society for Womenss Health Research, and on the member of the Supervisory Board of SICK AG.
Board of Trustees of The Conference Board.
Dr Burns holds a PhD in organic Dr Moncef Slaoui Aged 47 chemistry from Iowa State University.
Dr Slaoui Lawrence Culp Aged 43 joined GSK Biologicals in 1988 where he engineered the development of a Appointed on 1 July 2003.
Mr Culp is President and robust vaccines pipeline.
He has a PhD in Molecular Biology and Immunology Chief Executive officer of Danaher Corporation.
Prior to joining Danaher, from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles.
he held positions in Accenture, previously Andersen Consulting.
Tom fide Swaan Aged 60 Sir Crispin Davis Aged 57 Appointed on 1 January 2006.
Mr fide Swaan was Appointed on 1 July 2003.
Sir Crispin is Chief a member of the Managing Board and Chief Financial officer of ABN Executive of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Prior to that, he was Chief Executive of AMRO until 1 January 2006.
He was a Non-Executive Director of the Aegis Group plc, which he joined from Guinness plc, where he was a Financial Services Authority.
He is a member of the Board of Directors of member of the main board and Group Managing Director of United Zurich Financial Services in Switzerland and a member of the Supervisory Distillers.
He spent his early career with Procter & Gamble.
Board of Royal DSM and Buhrmann in the Netherlands.
He is Chairman of the Board of the Netherlands Opera and a member of the Board of the Julian Heslop Aged 53 Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra.
Mr Heslop joined Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
In January 2001, following Sir Robert Wilson Aged 63 the merger, he was appointed Senior Vice President, Operations Controller.
Sir Robert is NonPrior to joining Glaxo Wellcome, he held senior finance roles at Grand Executive Chairman of BG Group plc and The Economist Group and was Metropolitan PLC.
previously Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto.
Sir Deryck Maughan Aged 59 Other Directors Appointed on 1 June 2004.
Sir Deryck is a Dr Lucy Shapiro, formerly Non-Executive Director, retired from the Board Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
Dr Tachi Yamada, formerly Chairman, Research & Chairman and CEO of Citigroup International and of Salomon Brothers Development, retired from the Board on 31 May 2006.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Reuters Group plc as well as serving Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found on page 23. on the Boards of Directors of Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center and NYU Medical Center.
He served as Vice Chairman of the New York Stock Exchange from 1996 to 2000.
GSK Annual Review 2006 18 The Corporate Executive Team The executive management of the Group is through the Corporate Executive Team CET, comprising the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer and other senior managers.
JP Garnier Rupert Bondy John Clarke Marc Dunoyer Russell Greig Julian Heslop Duncan Learmouth Bill Louv Dan Phelan David Pulman Moncef Slaoui David Stout Chris Viehbacher Andrew Witty JP Garnier Chief Executive officer Dan Phelan Senior Vice President, Human Resources As Chief Executive officer, JP is responsible for the management of the Dan is responsible for benets, compensation, recruitment, organisation Group.
He oversees all operational aspects of the Group, including development, leadership development and succession planning, human establishing policies, objectives and initiatives, and he directs long-term resource information systems and employee health management.
He was formerly Chief Executive officer of SmithKline Beecham, a lawyer in private practice before joining Smith Kline & French in 1981. having joined the Group in 1990.
David Pulman President, Global Manufacturing and Supply Rupert Bondy Senior Vice President and General Counsel David is responsible for the Global Manufacturing and Supply Organisation Rupert is responsible for legal matters across the Group, together with and Global Procurement.
He joined Glaxo in 1978 and was responsible for environmental, health and safety issues and security.
He was a lawyer in the North American supply network, manufacturing strategy and logistics private practice before joining SmithKline Beecham in 1995. until his current appointment in 2002.
John Clarke President, Consumer Healthcare Moncef Slaoui Chairman, Research & Development John is responsible for the Consumer Healthcare business which produces Moncef leads the Groups complex drug discovery and development activities.
oral care, over-the-counter and nutritional healthcare products.
He joined He joined the Group in 1988 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Beecham in 1976 and was the President of the Future Group before his Business Development until his current appointment in June 2006. current appointment in January 2006.
David Stout President, Pharmaceutical Operations Marc Dunoyer President, Pharmaceuticals Japan David is responsible for all pharmaceuticals and vaccines operations Marc was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in March 2003.
He worldwide, including the US, Europe, International, Japan and Global joined the Group in 1999 and was Senior Vice President and Regional Manufacturing and Supply.
He joined SmithKline Beecham in 1996 and Director, Japan until his current appointment.
was President, US Pharmaceuticals, until his current appointment in 2003.
Russell Greig President, Pharmaceuticals International Chris Viehbacher President, US Pharmaceuticals Russell leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the US, Japan and Chris is responsible for US Pharmaceuticals.
He joined Wellcome in 1988 most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries.
He joined the Group and was responsible for GSKs European Pharmaceuticals business before in 1980 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Development his current appointment in 2003. for R&D prior to his current appointment in March 2003.
Andrew Witty President, Pharmaceuticals Europe Julian Heslop Chief Financial officer Andrew is responsible for the Groups pharmaceuticals operations in Julian became Chief Financial officer on 1 April 2005.
As head of the finance Europe.
He joined Glaxo in 1985 and was Senior Vice President, Asia Pacic function he is responsible for activities such as financial reporting and control, until his current appointment in 2003. tax and treasury, finance systems, internal audit, insurance and real estate.
Other members He joined Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
Jack Ziegler retired as head of the Consumer Healthcare business on 31 Duncan Learmouth Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications January 2006.
Jennie Younger left the Group in June 2006 and Ford and Community Partnerships Calhoun retired as Chief Information officer on 31 January 2007.
Bob Duncan is responsible for the Groups investor relations, internal and Ingram continues to act as a special consultant to the Group and attends external communications, its image and partnerships with global CET meetings in that capacity.
He joined Glaxo in 1991 and was Vice President, Global Investor Relations, before appointment to his current position in July 2006.
Bill Louv Chief Information officer Bill succeeded Ford Calhoun as Chief Information officer on 31 January 2007.
He is responsible for information technology, a global function that enables key business processes across all parts of the Group.
Bill joined the company in 1994, and has held a number of increasingly senior roles in IT, including US Pharmaceuticals and GSKs R&D functions.
GSK Annual Review 2006 19 Summary Remuneration Report for the year to 31 December 2006 Introduction will result in total remuneration signicantly below the pay The Summary Remuneration Report sets out the annual comparator group median.
remuneration of the Board earned in 2006, together with any This strong alignment with performance is demonstrably in the gains made under long-term incentive arrangements.
It also interests of shareholders and provides the Executives with describes the background and outlines the Groups remuneration unambiguous signals about the importance of delivering success to policy, together with the performance graph required by the the companys shareholders.
Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
Commitment The Committee will apply this policy on a consistent and transparent The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for basis.
Any significant change will be discussed with shareholders in making recommendations to the Board on the companys advance of implementation.
remuneration policy and, within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual remuneration packages of the Pay and performance comparators Executive Directors and members of the CET Executives.
The The following table sets out the companies used for pay and members of the Committee are set out on page 23. performance comparison: Market Capitalisation The Committee has developed the remuneration policy to align 31.12.06 executive remuneration with the interests of shareholders whilst Company Country m meeting the imperative of recruiting and retaining the executive Abbott Laboratories US 38,144 talent essential to the leadership of the company.
Amgen US 40,656 AstraZeneca UK 42,036 GSKs remuneration policy was agreed after an extensive Bristol-Myers Squibb US 26,410 consultation process with shareholders and institutional bodies Eli Lilly US 30,079 during 2003 and 2004.
The appropriateness of the elements of the GlaxoSmithKline UK 77,362 policy is kept under review by the Committee.
Johnson & Johnson US 97,661 The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continues to have Merck US 48,294 regular dialogue with institutional investors regarding GSKs Novartis Switzerland 77,066 remuneration policy.
Pzer US 95,281 Roche Holdings Switzerland 80,157 The remuneration policy is designed to establish a framework for Sano-Aventis France 64,166 remuneration which is consistent with the companys scale and Schering-Plough US 17,882 scope of operations, meets the recruitment needs of the business Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Japan 31,182 and is closely aligned with shareholder guidelines.
Wyeth US 34,987 Deloitte & Touche LLP have been appointed by the Committee to only included for performance comparison provide it with independent advice on executive remuneration.
GSKs executive remuneration consists of the following Remuneration policy components: Principles The policy for GSK is designed to secure outstanding executive Base salary talent, and to provide pay for performance and only for Base salaries are set by reference to the median for the relevant performance, within a transparent and robust governance structure.
For executives this is the pharmaceutical pay comparator group.
Base salary is the only element of remuneration that is xed.
GSKs policy is based on the following key principles: Annual bonus the remuneration structure must support the business in a very All bonuses are determined on the basis of a formal review of annual competitive market place: performance against relevant stretching corporate targets and are UK shareholder guidelines will be followed to the maximum extent subject to detailed assessment of individual, business unit and group consistent with the needs of the business and the company would achievements against objectives.
maintain a regular dialogue with shareholders: The Committee took into account the companys success in global pharmaceutical companies are the primary pay comparator achieving these targets, as well as individual performance when group: determining the bonus awards for 2006. performance conditions would be based on the measurable Long-term incentives delivery of strong financial performance and the delivery of The remuneration policy provides that annual long-term incentive superior returns to shareholders as compared with other awards will normally be made up of a performance share award and pharmaceutical companies: a share option award.
The remuneration policy places greater emphasis on the use of performance shares rather than share options.
a high proportion of the total remuneration opportunity will be based on performance-related remuneration, which will be The Committee has considered which performance conditions delivered over the medium-term to long-term: and should be applied to the long-term incentives.
The Committee concluded that it was appropriate to measure performance using no ex-gratia payments will be made.
a combination of absolute financial results based on earnings per Overall, the policy is intended to provide median total remuneration share EPS and the delivery of superior value to shareholders for median performance with the opportunity to earn upper quartile based on Total Shareholder Return TSR measured against the total remuneration for exceptional performance.
GSK Annual Review 2006 20 Summary Remuneration Report continued For the Executives, the level of performance shares vesting is based Performance periods ended 31 December 2006 on the companys TSR relative to the performance comparator The performance share awards for Executives in ofce in 2003 did group over a three-year measurement period.
The performance not vest in 2006 because GSKs relative TSR performance, over the share awards granted in February 2007 vest in accordance with the performance period ended 31 December 2006, was below the graph below.
The awards made in 2003 to other senior executives, including Dr Slaoui and Mr Heslop, were dependent in part on TSR performance and in part on EPS performance.
Half of these awards Maximum 100% vested as GSKs EPS performance reached the target level for full vesting.
80% The share options granted in 2003 to the Executives vested in full.
Pensions 60% The Executives participate in GSK senior executive pension plans.
50% The pension arrangements are structured in accordance with the plans operated for executives in the country in which the Executives Threshold 35% are likely to retire.
Benets are normally payable at age 60.
Executive Director terms and conditions The policy regarding the Executive Directors contracts was the 0% subject of extensive review and change during 2003.
This resulted 14th-8th 8th 7th 6th 4th 2nd in a new framework for contracts for Executive Directors appointed no vesting Median in the future.
GSK TSR Performance compared to 14 other companies Dr Garnier agreed to changes in his contractual terms, without compensation, to bring them broadly in line with the new contractual The performance conditions applying to the share options granted framework, including the reduction of contractual notice period to the Executives are linked to the achievement of compound annual from 24 to 12 calendar months.
However, to honour certain aspects EPS growth in excess of the Retail Prices Index RPI measured over of his old contractual terms, there are a number of individual a three-year performance period.
features which will be retained.
In the event of early termination by When setting EPS targets, the Committee considers the companys the company, Dr Garnier would receive a cash sum equivalent to the internal projections and analysts forecasts for GSKs EPS total of his annual salary, on target bonus and pension contributions performance, as well as analysts forecasts for the pharmaceutical for the 12-month notice period.
TSR performance graph Vesting of share options granted in February 2007 increases on a The graph below sets out the performance of the company relative straight-line basis for EPS performance between the hurdles as set to the FTSE 100 index of which the company is a constituent and to out in the graph below.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Regulations and is not an indication of the likely vesting of awards granted under any of the incentive plans.
Exceptional 100% Superior 150 Baseline Threshold 50% 125 100 0% RPI 3% RPI 4% RPI 5% RPI 6% 75 p. a. p. a. p. a. p. a. EPS Target 50 31 12 01 31 12 02 31 12 03 31 12 04 31 12 05 31 12 06 This performance condition is substantially consistent with UK shareholder guidelines and expectations and is demanding when GlaxoSmithKline Total Return Index GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index compared with those operated by other global pharmaceutical FTSE 100 Total Return Index companies.
This is consistent with the policy of providing pay for performance and only for performance.
The performance criteria relating to performance shares and share options awarded and granted prior to 2007 are given in the Annual Report 2006.
GSK Annual Review 2006 21 Vesting percentage Vesting percentage Summary Remuneration Report continued Annual remuneration 2006 2005 Fees and Other Annual Total annual Total annual salary benets bonus remuneration remuneration Directors of GSK 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Dr JP Garnier $1,700 $633 $3,080 $5,413 $6,591 Dr M Slaoui $370 $317 $497 $1,184 Mr J Heslop 380 31 437 848 529 Non-Executive Directors Sir Crispin Davis 70 70 70 Sir Christopher Gent 500 1 501 500 Sir Ian Prosser 95 95 100 Dr R Schmitz 90 90 95 Mr T fide Swaan 70 70 Sir Robert Wilson 90 90 90 Mr L Culp $136 $136 $136 Sir Deryck Maughan $136 $136 $146 Dr D Podolsky $100 $100 Former Directors Mr J Coombe 22 22 171 Dr M Barzach 57 57 58 Sir Roger Hurn 5 Sir Peter Job 5 Sir Richard Sykes 1 1 1 Dr T Yamada $428 $493 $281 $1,202 $3,310 Dr L Shapiro $144 $11 $155 $230 Total Remuneration 2,982 841 2,523 6,346 7,346 Analysed as: Executive Directors 1,499 545 2,371 4,415 4,151 Non-Executive Directors 1,116 1 1,117 1,010 Former Directors 367 295 152 814 2,185 Total Remuneration 2,982 841 2,523 6,346 7,346 Remuneration for Directors on the US payroll is reported in Dollars.
Dollar amounts are included in the totals based on conversion to Sterling at the average exchange rates for each year.
Following the merger, and in order to encourage employees to convert their non savings related options, held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham shares or ADSs, for options over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs, employees were granted an additional cash benefit equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option.
This additional benefit, known as the Exchange Offer Incentive EOI, is only payable when the new option is exercised or lapses above market value.
During the year, Dr Garnier received $192,639 2005 $174,472 and Dr Yamada received $60,204 2005 $167,405 relating to options exercised under the EOI.
Those amounts are included in the table above.
Non-Executive Directors are required to receive a significant part of their fees in the form of shares or ADSs and from 1 October 2004, all Non-Executive Directors, except the Chairman, are required to take at least 25% of fees under the fee allocation arrangement.
They can also elect to invest part or all of the remaining balance of their fees in the form of shares or ADSs.
The value of these shares and ADSs at the dates of award are included in fees and salary above.
These shares and ADSs are not paid out until the Director leaves the Board.
In addition to annual compensation, GSK operates share plans to provide incentives to Executive Directors to achieve longer-term growth in shareholder value.
Gains under such plans are recognised on exercise or maturity of the award, but reect value earned over a period of years.
The timing of exercise is normally at the discretion of the Director.
Full details relating to the operation of the companys share plans may be found in the 2006 Annual Report.
The accrued annual benets under the dened benefit pension schemes operated by the Group were: Dr Garnier $1,201,831: Mr Heslop 110,906: Dr Slaoui 53,000 and $26,109: and Dr Yamada $168,521.
In addition, Dr Garnier, Dr Slaoui and Dr Yamada are members of a money purchase scheme into which contributions of $183,840, $20,354 and $62,494, respectively, were paid during 2006.
Dr Burns joined the Board as a non-executive Director on 12 February 2007.
No remuneration is shown for her in the table above.
None of the above Directors received expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure as required by the Regulations.
GSK Annual Review 2006 22 Corporate governance Governance and policy Audit Committee The Board and Corporate Executive Team The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting The Directors are listed under The Board on page 18. process, the system of internal control and management of risks and the external and internal audit process.
The Committee also The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate proposes to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors governance and is ultimately accountable for the Groups activities, and is directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of strategy and financial performance.
The Committee consists entirely of independent NonThe CEO is responsible for executive management of the Group and Executive Directors.
It meets at least four times a year.
is assisted in this by the CET.
The CET meets 11 times per year and Remuneration Committee otherwise as necessary.
The members and their responsibilities are The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service and listed under Corporate Executive Team on page 19. remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of the CET The Board comprises three Executive and ten Non-Executive and, with the assistance of external independent advisors, it Directors.
The Board considers that Dr Burns, Mr Culp, Sir Crispin evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board on overall Davis, Sir Deryck Maughan, Dr Podolsky, Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Schmitz, executive remuneration policy.
The Committee consists entirely of Mr fide Swaan and Sir Robert Wilson are each independent under the independent Non-Executive Directors, together with the Chairman, Combined Code.
During the annual review of Board effectiveness, in accordance with the Combined Code.
It meets at least four times the Board concluded that Dr Schmitz remained independent, a year and otherwise as necessary.
notwithstanding his length of service.
In the opinion of the Board, Nominations Committee he continues to demonstrate the characteristics of independence, The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and whilst at the same time possessing an outstanding knowledge of the composition of the Board and the appointment of members to business.
Sir Ian Prosser is the Senior Independent Director.
the Board and the CET, and makes recommendations to the Board Throughout 2006 and up to the date of this publication, a majority as appropriate.
The Committee also monitors the planning of of the Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent succession to the Board and Senior Management.
The Committee Non-Executive Directors, in accordance with the recommendations consists entirely of Non-Executive Directors, of whom a majority of the Combined Code.
are independent, and meets at least once a year and otherwise as necessary.
Board process The Board meets at least six times a year.
It has a formal schedule of Corporate Responsibility Committee matters reserved to it for decision but otherwise delegates specic The Corporate Responsibility Committee consists entirely of Nonresponsibilities to Board committees, as described below.
The Board Executive Directors and provides a Board-level forum for the regular works to an agreed business agenda in reviewing the key activities review of external issues that have the potential for serious impact of the business, and receives papers and presentations to enable it upon the Groups business and reputation and for the oversight of to do so effectively.
The Board considers and reviews the work reputation and the views of external stakeholders.
The Committee undertaken by its Committees.
is also responsible for governance oversight of the Groups worldwide donations and community support.
The Committee The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available meets formally three times a year and otherwise as necessary.
to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
The Company Secretary is Mr Simon Bicknell, a barrister, who was appointed in Financial Results Committee May 2000 and joined GSK in 1984.
He is secretary to all the Board The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf of Committees.
the Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the Annual Review and the convening of the AGM, together with the preliminary and Board Committees quarterly statements of trading results.
Each Director is a member The Board has established a number of committees.
Executive of the Committee and the quorum for a meeting is any three Directors are not members of the Audit, Remuneration, members.
To be quorate, each meeting must include the Chairman Nominations or Corporate Responsibility Committees, although or the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the CEO or the CFO.
they may be invited to attend meetings.
Each Director is a member The Committee meets as necessary.
of the Corporate Administration & Transactions and Financial Results Committees.
Membership of these Committees is shown in Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee the table below.
The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews and approves matters in connection with the administration of the Corporate Groups business, and certain corporate transactions.
The Committee Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility consists of the Directors, CET members and the Company Secretary.
Sir Christopher Gent M C C Dr S Burns The Committee meets as necessary.
Mr L Culp M Remuneration of Directors Sir Crispin Davis M Sir Deryck Maughan M Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in the Dr D Podolsky M M Summary Remuneration Report on pages 20 to 22.
Sir Ian Prosser M M M Dr R Schmitz M M M Mr T fide Swaan C M Sir Robert Wilson M C Mr fide Swaan succeeded Dr Schmitz as Chairman of the Audit Committee from September 2006.
GSK Annual Review 2006 23 Responsibility statements Annual Review Independent auditors statement to the members of The Annual Review is a summary report and does not contain GlaxoSmithKline plc sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results We have examined the Summary financial statement which and state of affairs of the Group as is provided by the Annual Report comprise the Summary consolidated income statement, Summary 2006.
Shareholders requiring more detailed information may obtain, consolidated balance sheet and Summary consolidated cash ow free of charge, a copy of the Annual Report and may also elect to statement and the Summary Report of the Directors including the receive a copy of the Annual Report in future years refer to Summary Remuneration Report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Independent Auditors report on the full financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006 is unqualied accordance with applicable law.
and does not contain any statement concerning inadequate Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency accounting records or failure to obtain necessary information and of the Summary financial statements within the Annual Review with explanations.
the Annual financial statements, the Report of the Directors and the Statement by the Directors Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant The Annual Review 2006 is the Summary Directors report and requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the includes the Summary financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc regulations made thereunder.
for the year ended 31 December 2006, which is published in hardWe also read the other information contained in the Annual Review copy printed form and on the website.
The Business operating and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of review, the Summary financial statements, the Summary any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Remuneration Report and the Statement on corporate governance Summary financial statement.
are summaries of information in the Annual Report 2006.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and profit attributable to shareholders and total equity are also restated only for the companys members as a body in accordance with in accordance with US GAAP as additional information provided to Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement the Annual Review on the website in accordance with the UK is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, Basis of opinion where comparable legislation may be different.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The Disclosure of information to auditors auditors statement on the Summary financial statement issued by The Directors have each confirmed that: the Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports on the companys full annual financial statements describe the basis of our audit opinions so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of on those financial statements and the Directors Remuneration which the companys auditors are unaware: and Report.
each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Opinion taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant In our opinion the Summary financial statement is consistent with audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are the Annual consolidated financial statements, the Directors Report aware of that information.
and the Directors Remuneration Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance the year ended 31 December 2006 and comply with the applicable with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Corporate governance The Combined Code on Corporate Governance is specified by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority for the guidance of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors listed companies Combined Code.
The Board considers that London throughout 2006 and up to the date of approval of this review, 28 February 2007 GlaxoSmithKline plc applied the principles of the Combined Code and, with the exception of matters where the companys position is described in the Annual Report, complied with the provisions of the Combined Code, and the guidance on internal control issued by the 1998 Turnbull Committee.
The Annual Review, including Summary financial statements, has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Sir Christopher Gent Chairman 28 February 2007 GSK Annual Review 2006 24 Summary financial statements Summary consolidated income statement 2006 Growth 2005 m CER% m Turnover Pharmaceutical 20,078 9 18,661 Consumer Healthcare 3,147 6 2,999 Total turnover 23,225 9 21,660 Cost of sales 5,010 6 4,764 Gross profit 18,215 9 16,896 Selling, general and administration 7,257 7,250 Research and development 3,457 11 3,136 Other operating income 307 364 Operating profit 7,808 17 6,874 Finance income 287 257 Finance costs 352 451 Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 56 52 profit before taxation 7,799 19 6,732 Taxation 2,301 1,916 profit after taxation for the year 5,498 17 4,816 profit attributable to minority interests 109 127 profit attributable to shareholders 5,389 4,689 5,498 4,816 Basic earnings per share pence 95.5p 19 82.6p Diluted earnings per share pence 94.5p 82.0p Summary consolidated balance sheet 2006 2005 m m Total non-current assets 14,561 14,021 Total current assets 10,992 13,177 Total assets 25,553 27,198 Total current liabilities 7,265 9,511 Total non-current liabilities 8,640 10,117 Total liabilities 15,905 19,628 Net assets 9,648 7,570 Shareholders equity 9,386 7,311 Minority interests 262 259 Total equity 9,648 7,570 Summary consolidated cash ow statement 2006 2005 m m Net cash inow from operating activities 4,357 5,958 Net cash outow from investing activities 1,521 1,660 Net cash outow from nancing activities 4,792 2,914 Decrease increase in cash in the year 1,956 1,384 Exchange adjustments 254 233 Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 3,972 2,355 Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 1,762 3,972 Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise: Cash and cash equivalents 2,005 4,209 Overdrafts 243 237 1,762 3,972 GSK Annual Review 2006 25 Summary information under US GAAP The following is a summary of the material adjustments to profit and shareholders funds which would be required if US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP had been applied instead of IFRS.
profit 2006 2005 m m profit after taxation for the year under IFRS 5,498 4,816 profit attributable to minority interests 109 127 profit attributable to shareholders under IFRS 5,389 4,689 US GAAP adjustments: Product rights and goodwill 1,391 1,682 Depreciation and impairment of other assets 93 40 Capitalised interest 4 1 Investments 10 2 Employee costs 197 121 Derivative instruments and hedging 477 30 Restructuring costs 16 1 Taxation 292 538 Other 16 Net income under US GAAP 4,455 3,336 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 10 Net income under US GAAP after effect of change in accounting principle 4,465 3,336 Earnings per share 2006 2005 Basic net income per share before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 78.9p 58.8p Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle per share 0.2p Basic net income per share after cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 79.1p 58.8p Diluted income per share before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 78.2p 58.3p Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle per share 0.2p Diluted net income per share after cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 78.4p 58.3p Equity shareholders funds 2006 2005 m m Total equity under IFRS 9,648 7,570 Minority interests 262 259 Shareholders equity under IFRS 9,386 7,311 US GAAP adjustments: Product rights and goodwill 28,583 30,041 Fixed assets and capitalised interest 148 212 Inventory impairment reversals 54 30 Investments 500 576 Pensions and other post-retirement benets 35 1,249 Restructuring costs 39 65 Derivative instruments 44 33 Dividends 676 568 Deferred taxation 3,262 4,531 Other 2 10 Shareholders equity under US GAAP 34,653 34,282 A summary of the material differences between IFRS and US GAAP that apply to the Group is set out in the Annual Report 2006.
GSK Annual Review 2006 26 Shareholder information Financial reporting The table below sets out the dividends per ADS in US dollars in the Financial reporting calendar 2007 last five years translated into US dollars at applicable exchange rates.
Announcement of 1st Quarter Results April 2007 Year US$ Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results July 2007 2006 1.80 2005 1.57 Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results October 2007 2004 1.53 Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results February 2008 2003 1.39 Publication of Annual Report Review March 2008 2002 1.24 Results Announcements Dividend calendar Results Announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange Fourth quarter 2006 and are available on its news service.
Shortly afterwards, they are issued to the media, are made available on the website and are Ex-dividend date 14 February 2007 submitted to the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the Record date 16 February 2007 New York Stock Exchange.
Payable 12 April 2007 Financial reports First quarter 2007 The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the investor not Ex-dividend date 2 May 2007 needing the full detail of the Report, an Annual Review.
These are Record date 4 May 2007 available on the website.
The Annual Review is sent to all Payable 12 July 2007 shareholders.
Shareholders may also elect to receive the Annual Second quarter 2007 Report by writing to the companys registrars.
Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notication by email of the Ex-dividend date 1 August 2007 publication of financial reports by registering on Record date 3 August 2007 www.
Copies of previous financial reports are Payable 11 October 2007 available on the website.
Printed copies can be obtained from the Third quarter 2007 registrar in the UK and from the GSK Response Center in the US.
Ex-dividend date 31 October 2007 Publications Record date 2 November 2007 In late March 2007 GSK will publish on the website its Corporate Payable 10 January 2008 Responsibility Report covering performance in areas including community investment, ethics and integrity, access to medicines, Annual General Meeting 2007 R&D, environment and health and safety.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P Share price 2006 2005 2004 3EE on 23 May 2007.
Summary Directors Report At 1 January 14.69 12.22 12.80 Pages 14 to 28 consist of summary financial information derived High during the year 15.77 15.44 12.99 from the Report of the Directors in the Annual Report 2006 that Low during the year 13.26 11.75 10.42 has been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in At 31 December 13.44 14.69 12.22 reliance upon, applicable English company law and the liabilities Decrease increase 9 % 20% 5 % of the Directors in connection with that Report are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List.
The companys Notice regarding limitations on Director liability under share price decreased by 9% in 2006 from a price of 14.69 at 1 English law January 2006 to 13.44 at 31 December 2006, due to the US This Annual Review includes summary financial information derived political climate combined with investor concern over pipeline delays.
from the Report of the Directors in the Annual Report 2006.
Under This compares with an increase in the FTSE 100 index of 11% during the UK Companies Act 2006, a new safe harbour limits the liability the year.
The share price on 23 February 2007 was 14.50. of Directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the Report of the Directors contained on pages 2 and 3 and 6 to 82 of Market capitalisation the Annual Report 2006.
Under English law, the Directors would The market capitalisation of GSK at 31 December 2006 was 77 be liable to the company but not to any third party if the Report billion.
At that date GSK was the fourth largest company by market of the Directors contains errors as a result of recklessness or capitalisation on the FTSE index.
knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, Dividends but would not otherwise be liable.
Cautionary statement The Board has declared dividends for 2006 as follows: Under the safe harbor provisions of the US Private Securities 2006 2005 Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the company cautions investors that Dividends per share pence pence any forward looking statements or projections made by the First interim paid 6 July 2006 11 10 company, including those made in this Annual Review, are subject Second interim paid 5 October 2006 11 10 to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ Third interim paid 4 January 2007 12 10 materially from those projected.
Factors that may affect the Groups Fourth interim payable 12 April 2007 14 14 operations are described under Risk factors and Legal Total 48 44 proceedings in the companys Annual Report 2006.
GSK Annual Review 2006 27 Shareholder information continued The provision of the details on this page is not intended to be an Ordinary shares invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice The companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or Registrar independent financial adviser.
The companys registrars are: SmithKline Beecham plc Floating Rate Unsecured Loan Lloyds TSB Registrars Stock 1990 2010 The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA The loan stock is not listed on any exchange but holders may require www.
co. uk SmithKline Beecham plc to redeem their loan stock at par, i. e. 1 for Tel: 0870 600 3991 inside the UK every 1 of loan stock held, on the first business day of March, June, Tel: 44 0 121 415 7067 outside the UK September and December.
Holders wishing to redeem all or part of The registrars also provide the following services: their loan stock should complete the notice on the back of their loan stock certicate and return it to the registrar, to arrive at least 30 days GlaxoSmithKline Investment Plan before the relevant redemption date.
GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account Share buy-back programme GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee Shareview service GSK has repurchased 7.8 billion of its own shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, of which 1.3 billion were purchased Shareview dealing service Dividend reinvestment plan in 2006.
The programme covers purchases by the company of shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with Shareview dealing service the authority given by shareholders at the AGM in 2006.
Shareholders may buy or sell shares by internet or telephone through Shareview Dealing, a share dealing service provided by In May 2006, the company was authorised to purchase a maximum of 582 million shares.
During 2006, 92.6 million shares were Lloyds TSB Registrars.
For internet purchases and sales log on to www.
co. uk dealing and for telephone purchases and purchased and held as Treasury shares see Note 31 to the financial statements, Share capital and share premium account in the Annual sales call 0870 850 0852 inside the UK only between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham corporate PEPs shares rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the The Share Centre Limited company and is dependent on market conditions and other factors.
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ Tel: 44 0 1296 414 141 Internet Information about the company, including details of the share price, American Depositary Shares is available on GSKs website at www.
com The companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs and these Information made available on the website does not constitute part of this Annual Review.
are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs, each one of which represents two ordinary shares.
Trademarks Brand names appearing in italics throughout this publication are In general, the NYSEs rules permit the company to follow UK corporate governance practices instead of those that apply in the US, trademarks either owned by and or licensed to GSK or associated companies, with the exception of Boniva Bonviva, a trademark of provided that the company explains any significant variations.
This explanation is provided on the companys website.
Roche, Entereg, a trademark of Adolor Corporation in the US, Lymphostat-B, a trademark of Human Genome Sciences, and ADR programme administrator HuMax-CD20, a trademark of Genmab, all of which are used in The ADR programme is administered by: certain countries under license by the Group.
The Bank of New York Investor relations Shareholder Relations Investor Relations may be contacted as follows: PO Box 11258, Church Street Station UK New York NY 10286-1258 www.
com 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 Tel: 1 877 353 1154 toll free Tel: 1 212 815 3700 outside the US US One Franklin Plaza, PO Box 7929, Philadelphia PA 19101 The administrators also provide Global BuyDIRECT, a direct ADS purchase sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free Tel: 1 215 751 4000 outside the US GSK Response Center Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free GSK Annual Review 2006 28 Chairmans and CEOs closing letter Dear shareholder As this Annual Review has demonstrated, we continue to meet the challenges of improving productivity in R&D and ensuring that patients have access to medicines, wherever in the world they live.
For all our investment in technology, it is our people that make GSK so different.
We could not succeed without their commitment, expertise and passion, and we thank them all for their outstanding efforts in 2006.
We also thank you, our shareholders, for your continued support during the year, together with our suppliers and business partners who work so hard on our behalf.
Our management team has again performed very well.
In the past 12 months we welcomed to the Board Dr Moncef Slaoui, our new Chairman of R&D, on 17 May 2006, Dr Daniel Podolsky on 1 July 2006 and Dr Stephanie Burns on 12 February 2007.
In addition to Moncef, the corporate executive team saw two changes.
Jennie Younger left in June 2006 and was succeeded by Duncan Learmouth as Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications and Community Partnerships.
Ford Calhoun retired in January 2007 and was succeeded by Bill Louv as Chief Information officer.
Our best wishes go to both Jennie and Ford and we thank them for the valuable skills, great contribution and good humour they brought to their roles over the years.
The aim of this Annual Review is to highlight our performance and key achievements for you and to showcase some of our plans for the future.
We hope we have been successful in that regard.
If you would like to know more about any aspect of GSK, please go to the information sources listed on the back cover.
Thank you again for your support.
Sir Christopher Gent JP Garnier Chairman Chief Executive officer GSK Annual Review 2006 29 Corporate Annual responsibility report report Financial summary Chairmans and CEOs letter Chairmans and CEOs summary Corporate responsibility at GSK Performance overview Access to medicines Business review Research and innovation Corporate governance Ethical conduct Remuneration report What would Supply chain Financial statements Employment you like to know Notes to the financial Environment statements about GSK?
