NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Nineteenth annual general meeting of the company will be held at the Hilton Newcastle Gateshead, Bottle Bank, Gateshead, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE8 2AR on Thursday 26 October 2006 at 15:00 hours for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 1 July 2006, together with the Auditors Report thereon.
2 To declare a final dividend of 38p per share in respect of the ordinary shares in the company payable on 24 November 2006 to all ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 November 2006.
3 To re-elect Sir Patrick Brown as a non-executive director of the company.
4 To re-elect Rupert Pennant-Rea as a non-executive director of the company.
5 To consider and approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 1 July 2006.
6 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the company.
7 To authorise the directors to x the remuneration of Ernst & Young LLP.
Special business To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions as special resolutions: 8 That in substitution for the authority granted to the directors pursuant to a special resolution passed at the annual general meeting of the company held on 27 October 2005, the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 839,938 provided that: i except as provided in paragraph ii below this authority shall expire on the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company or, if earlier, fifteen months after the date of this resolution, but may be previously revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution of the company: and ii the company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement notwithstanding that the authority conferred by this resolution has expired.
9 That, subject to the passing of resolution 8 above, the directors, pursuant to the general authority conferred on them, be empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot for cash, either pursuant to the authority so conferred or where the equity securities are held by the company as treasury shares within the meaning of section 162A 3 of the Act, to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: i made in connection with an offer of securities, open for acceptance for a xed period, by the directors to ordinary shareholders of the company on the register on a xed record date in proportion as nearly as may be to their then holdings of such shares but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with legal or practical problems under the laws or requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any overseas territory or in connection with fractional entitlements : and or ii wholly for cash otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above up to an aggregate nominal value of 242,041 being 5% of the issued share capital of the company on 1 July 2006 : and iii shall expire on the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company or, if earlier, fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, but the company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities pursuant to such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired: 71 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED 10 That the company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act on the London Stock Exchange of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the company either for cancellation or to hold as treasury shares within the meaning of Section 162A 3 of the Act provided that: i the maximum aggregate number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 4,500,000: ii the maximum number of shares held in treasury will never exceed 10% of the issued share capital of the company: iii the maximum price which may be paid for such ordinary shares shall not be more than 5% above the average of the market values for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchanges Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the ordinary shares are purchased: iv the minimum price which may be paid for such shares is 10p per ordinary share: unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the companys next annual general meeting or fifteen months from the date of this resolution whichever is earlier : and v the company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority conferred by this resolution prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
By order of the board C Sephton Secretary 7 September 2006 Registered Ofce 3rd Floor 41 51 Grey Street Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 6EE Notes i The company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, species that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the company as at 18:00 hours on 24 October 2006 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 18:00 hours on 24 October 2006 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
ii A member may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
A form of proxy is included with the Annual Review, or separately for members electing not to receive a hard copy Annual Review, if required.
To be effective this must be deposited at, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZX not later than 48 hours before the meeting.
iii Completion and return of the proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending and voting at the meeting.
iv CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting to be held on 26 October 2006 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001. v There will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the company and during usual business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the date of the annual general meeting: a a statement of all transactions of each director and of his family interests, in the equity share capital of the company: b copies of the contracts of service of the directors employed by the company and the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors.
These documents will also be available for inspection during the annual general meeting and for at least fifteen minutes before it begins.
vi If you have sold or transferred your Go-Ahead shares you should send this document and the enclosed Form of Proxy to the purchaser or to the stockbroker or other agent through whom the sale was effected for transmission to the purchaser.
72 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AND FINANCIAL CALENDAR No.
of Shares holders % held % Classication of Shareholders Treasury shares 1 0.04 4,192,230 7.97 Directors 6 0.21 2,034,683 3.87 Other individuals 2,275 81.05 7,177,475 13.64 Institutional investors 525 18.70 39,196,231 74.52 2,807 100.00 52,600,619 100.00 FINANCIAL CALENDAR Annual general meeting 26 October 2006 Record date 3 November 2006 Final dividend paid 24 November 2006 Half year-end 30 December 2006 Interim results announced February 2007 Interim dividend paid April 2007 Next financial year-end 30 June 2007 Full year results announced September 2007 Annual general meeting October 2007 Final dividend paid November 2007 Designed and produced by Linnett Webb Jenkins www.
co. uk Printed by Empress Litho THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW FOR THEYEAR ENDED 1 JULY 2006 You can now register for future communications issued by The Go-Ahead Group plc to be sent electronically.
If you choose this option you will not only save the group money, but also help protect the environment through reduced energy and paper usage.
If you have not done so already, and wish to register for future communications issued by The Go-Ahead Group plc to be sent electronically, please log onto Lloyds TSB Registrars website: This report has been produced on paper from a sustainable source by an environmentally www.
By signing up for a portfolio, you will also be accredited printing company.
It is important able to view information regarding your holding, change your address to us that all materials used and the and bank details online, and even sell or purchase shares in the company.
production process itself complies with our own environmental policy statement.
When completing your details you will need to specify that This report has been printed by Empress Litho future communications should be sent in email format.
You will need Ltd who are accredited with the ISO 14001 your account number shareholder reference number which is the environmental management system UKAS ISO 14001:4284 04E.
Produced eight digit number found on your tax voucher or share certicate.
entirely on one site using vegetable based inks which contain environmentally friendly, replenishable vegetable oils.
On average 87% of all waste associated with the production of this report is recycled.
The paper is made from 50% totally chlorine-free pulp from plantation and sustainable forests, and 50% totally recycled pre and post consumer waste with fide-inked bres.
This report is recyclable and bio-degradable.
When you have nished with this report please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
In order to minimise the environmental impacts of our reports, Go Ahead is working with The CarbonNeutral Company to assess, reduce and offset the greenhouse gas emissions created by the production and distribution of our annual and corporate responsibility reports.
12.31 tonnes of CO2 will be balanced through native forestry in Northumberland and Snowdonia, making both these reports CarbonNeutral.
For more information about other projects from The CarbonNeutral Company go to www.
The Go-Ahead Group plc 3rd Floor 41 51 Grey Street Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 6EE Telephone 0191 232 3123 Facsimile 0191 221 0315 www.
