NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE FIFTY-TWO WEEKS ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 Corporate information transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on The consolidated financial statements of Greene King plc for the 52 consolidation.
Intra-group losses are also eliminated unless the transaction weeks ended 30 April 2006 were authorised for issue by the board of provides evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
Greene King plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England.
The company's shares are listed Changes in accounting policies on the London Stock Exchange.
The group has adopted those standards mandatory for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Statement of compliance The groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The changes in accounting policies result from adoption of the following International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU as they new or revised standards: apply to the financial statements of the group for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2006 applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies IAS 32 Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Act 1985.
The groups financial statements are also consistent with Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB.
The group has decided to apply the exemption allowed by IFRS 1 First 1.
Accounting policies time adoption of International Reporting Standards and not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 to comparative information.
Instead, UK GAAP has Basis of preparation continued to be applied to financial instruments that fall within the scope The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in of these standards.
Therefore at 2 May 2005, when the standards were accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for adopted, this is classified as a change in accounting policy.
the first time and the comparatives have been restated from UK Generally Accepted Accouting Practice UK GAAP to comply with IFRS, The impact of adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39 is summarised as follows: except as noted below.
They are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand pounds except where m otherwise indicated.
Interest rate swap liability recognised 21.1 Related deferred tax asset recognised 6.3 In the transition to IFRS the 2005 figures have not been adjusted for the 14.8 implementation of IAS 32 Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and The main adjustments that the group would have made if the measurement as permitted by the transition arrangements in IFRS 1 comparatives were made to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39 are that the First time adoption of International Reporting Standards.
Instead, IAS group's portfolio of interest rate swaps would have been recognised on 32 and IAS 39 have been adopted with effect from 2 May 2005.
The the balance sheet at fair value, designated as cash flow hedges.
The reconciliations to IFRS from the previously published UK GAAP financial changes in the fair value during the year would have been recognised statements are included in note 32. directly in equity for the effective portion of the hedges and in profit or loss for the ineffective portion.
The accounting policies adopted for these consolidated financial statements are consistent with those disclosed in a document restating Goodwill the previous UK GAAP financial statements to comply with IFRS which Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the net can be viewed on the group's website.
fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and tested annually for Basis of consolidation impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances The consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts of Greene indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
As such, goodwill is King plc and all its subsidiaries.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Any new or prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and the existing goodwill is not amortised after 3 May 2004.
Any amortisation of accounts of subsidiaries are prepared on the basis of consistent goodwill prior to 3 May 2004 has not been re-instated and the net book accounting policies for consolidation purposes.
Acquisitions are value of goodwill at that date has been carried forward as the carrying accounted for using the purchase method and any goodwill arising is value.
Prior to 3 May 1998, goodwill was written off to reserves and has capitalised as an intangible asset.
The results of subsidiaries are not been re-instated.
consolidated, using the purchase method of accounting, with subsidiaries acquired or disposed of being included from or up to the date on which For the purposes of impairment testing goodwill is allocated at business control of the net assets and operations effectively passes.
Intercompany segment level which is the lowest group of cash-generating units where GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 27 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE FIFTY-TWO WEEKS ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 goodwill is monitored by management.
The recoverable amount of a loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
The reversal is business segment is determined from value in use calculations.
If a recognised in profit or loss.
After such a reversal, the depreciation charge segment's recoverable amount is less than its carrying value, including is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset's revised carrying value, goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
On disposal less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the There is no reversal of impairment losses for goodwill.
determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Finance costs and income Property, plant and equipment Finance costs are expensed to the income statement using The group has adopted the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 to use previous the effective interest method and are not capitalised.
Finance income is revaluations as deemed cost at the transition date.
From 3 May 2004, all recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
property, plant and equipment will be stated at cost or deemed cost on transition, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Raw Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated materials are valued at average cost.
Finished goods and work in useful life of the asset.
progress comprise materials, labour, and attributable production overheads where applicable.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually by management and depreciation adjusted as Cash and cash equivalents applicable.
Residual values are those assessed in the annual review.
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank Freehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated residual values over and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three periods up to fifty years, long leasehold properties are depreciated to their months or less.
For the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash estimated residual values over periods up to fifty years, short leasehold equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of improvements are depreciated to their estimated residual values over the outstanding bank overdrafts.
remaining term of the lease.
Plant and equipment assets are depreciated over their estimated lives which range from three to twenty years.
Financial instruments The group has adopted both IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 2 May 2005.
Under At each balance sheet date, the carrying values of property, plant and the transitional rules of IFRS 1, IAS 32 and IAS 39 are not applied to equipment are reviewed for indicators of impairment.
For the purposes comparative balances.
The 2005 comparative balances are presented in of the impairment testing a cash generating unit is taken as the lowest accordance with UK GAAP.
level either individual asset or group of assets where cash inflows are separately identifiable.
Where the carrying value of assets may not be Financial instruments are recognised when the group becomes party to recoverable an impairment in the value of fixed assets is charged to the the contractual provisions of the instrument and are derecognised when income statement.
Recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less the group no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use is determined by discounting financial instrument, normally through sale or when all cash flows future estimated cashflows to their present value.
attributable to the instrument are passed to an independent third party.
Impairment Financial assets Individual assets are grouped for impairment assessment purposes at the Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through lowest level at which there are identifiable cash inflows independent of profit and loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, and the cash inflows of other groups of assets.
The group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and, where appropriate, If there are indications of impairment or reversal of impairment, an re-evaluates this designation at each financial year-end.
assessment is made of the recoverable amount of each asset group.
An impairment loss is recognised where recoverable amount is lower than Trade loans are non-derivative and are not quoted in an active market the carrying value of assets, including goodwill.
If there is an indication and have therefore been designated as 'Loans and receivables', carried that any previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses may have decreased, a reversal of the loss may be made if there has been are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amounts derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
since the last impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount only up to the carrying The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset amount that would have resulted, net of depreciation, had no impairment or group of assets is impaired.
For assets carried at amortised cost, if there GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 28 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE FIFTY-TWO WEEKS ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 is evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred, the amount of loss in the same period during which the interest expense on debt is is measured as the difference between the asset's carrying amount and recognised.
the present value of estimated future cash flows, excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the financial asset's When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, original effective interest rate.
The loss is recognised in operating profit.
or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, the hedge accounting is discontinued.
For cash flow hedges, the related cumulative gains or Trade receivables losses recognised in equity are held there until the previously hedged Trade receivables are recorded at their original invoiced amount less an transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to allowance for any doubtful accounts when collection of the full amount take place, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is is no longer considered probable.
immediately transferred to the income statement.
Trade payables In respect of the prior year comparatives, derivative financial instruments Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal are still accounted for under UK GAAP whereby amounts payable or value.
receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to the interest expense over the period of the swap contracts.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the Pensions and other post-employment benefits consideration received, net of issue costs.
After initial recognition, The assets of all group pension schemes are held separately from the interest-bearing loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost group's finances.
using an effective interest basis.
Defined benefit pension schemes Derivative financial instruments Scheme assets are measured at market value, being in the case of Interest rate swaps are used to hedge the groups exposure to interest quoted securities the published bid price.
Scheme liabilities are rate fluctuations.
measured using the projected unit credit method, are discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond and are based on Interest rate swaps are initially measured at fair value, if any, and carried actuarial advice.
on the balance sheet as an asset or liability.
Subsequent measurement is at fair value determined by reference to market values for similar Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on a straightinstruments.
line basis over the vesting period or immediately if the benefits have vested.
When a settlement or curtailment occurs the obligation and Hedge accounting related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions For hedge accounting, hedges can be classified as either fair value and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement in hedging exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or liability, or cash the same period.
flow hedging the variability in cash flows attributable to an asset, liability, or forecast transaction.
The group only has cash flow hedges.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations and is determined by To qualify for hedge accounting the hedge must be designated, applying a discount rate to the opening present value of the obligation, documented and highly effective.
If a derivative does not qualify for taking into account any material changes during the period.
The hedge accounting the gain or loss arising on the movement in fair value expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment of long-term is recognised in the income statement.
market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of the plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the If a derivative does qualify for hedge accounting, for cash flow hedges, period.
The difference between expected return and interest cost is the portion of any gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is recognised in the income statement as finance income or expense.
determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Pension scheme surpluses, to the extent that they are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised on the balance sheet as an asset When the hedged item or transaction results in the recognition of an or liability.
asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and is included in the initial measurement of the asset or Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of recognised liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains and losses income and expense in the period in which they occur.
All actuarial gains and recognised directly in equity are transferred to the income statement losses as at 3 May 2004 were recognised on transition to IFRS.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 29 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE FIFTY-TWO WEEKS ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 Defined contribution pension schemes Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership The cost of providing defined contribution pensions amounts to the are transferred.
Revenue represents amounts principally derived from the value of contributions made.
Payments are charged to the income sale of goods drink and food sales: recognised at the point at which the statement as they fall due.
goods are provided and the rendering of services property rental income: recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term on ongoing leases: Post-employment healthcare benefits accommodation: recognised at the point at which services are rendered: The group also provided certain additional post-employment healthcare machine income: net takings recognised as earned or received.
benefits to employees which are unfunded.
The cost of providing these benefits is determined on the same basis as the defined benefit pension Operating leases schemes.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Rental payments are Share based payments charged against trading profit on a straight line basis over the period of Certain employees and directors receive equity-settled remuneration, the lease.
whereby they render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a BlackPayments made on entering into or acquiring leasehold land or buildings Scholes model, at the date at which they were granted.
No account is that are accounted for as an operating lease represent prepaid lease taken of any vesting conditions, other than market conditions.
These are amortised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
value of shares and options granted are recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity spread over the period Income tax in which the performance conditions are fulfilled ending on the relevant The income tax charge comprises both the income tax payable based on vesting date.
The cumulative amount recognised as an expense reflects profits for the year and the deferred income tax.
It is calculated using the extent to which the vesting period has expired, adjusted for the taxation rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet estimated number of shares and options that are ultimately expected to date and is measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or vest.
The periodic charge or credit is the movement in the cumulative paid to the taxation authorities.
position from beginning to end of that period.
Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the providing vesting is not conditional on market related conditions.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share against which the deferred tax asset may be utilised.
dilution in calculating earnings per share figures.
Deferred tax is calculated on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that In accordance with the exemption allowed under IFRS 1 for first time are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the adopters, no expense is recorded in respect of grants made under the liability is settled.
Income tax is charged or credited to the income above schemes prior to 7 November 2002. statement except where it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Own shares Own shares consist of treasury shares and shares held within an Exceptionals employee benefit trust.
The group has an employee benefit trust for the Exceptional items are defined as items of income or expense which, granting of shares to applicable employees.
because of their nature, size or expected frequency, merit separate presentation to allow a better understanding of the financial Own shares are recognised at cost as a deduction from shareholders' equity.
Subsequent consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the sale proceeds and the New standards and interpretations not applied original cost being taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised During the year a number of standards and interpretations were issued in the performance statements on transactions with treasury shares.
by the IASB and IFRC with an effective date after the date of these financial statements and have not been adopted early by the group.
Revenue Generally, revenue represents external sales excluding VAT and associated excise duty of goods and services, net of discounts.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 30 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE FIFTY-TWO WEEKS ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards or interpretations will have a material impact on the group's financial statements in the period of initial adoption.
Adoption of IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures will require additional information on the group's financial instruments although there will be no impact on reported income or net assets.
IFRS 7 will be adopted during the year ended 4 May 2008.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates Impairment of goodwill The group determines whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis.
Details of the tests and carrying value of the assets are shown in note 13.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
If the actual cashflows are lower than estimated, future impairments may be necessary.
Pension liabilities The present value of pension liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and depend on a number of actuarial assumptions.
Any change in these assumptions will impact on the carrying amount of pension liabilities.
