INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GREENE KING PLC We have audited the group financial statements of Greene King plc We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2006 which comprise the Group the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Statement, the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not the related notes 1 to 32.
These group financial statements have required to consider whether the boards statements on internal been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its We have reported separately on the parent company financial risk and control procedures.
statements of Greene King plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2006 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is We read other information contained in the Annual Report and described as having been audited.
consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives review accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit incorporating the business review, the Financial Review and the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
company and the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the group financial statements in accordance with applicable United to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and as adopted by the European Union as set out in the Statement of judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group Directors Responsibilities.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in adequately disclosed.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial assurance that the group financial statements are free from material statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent presentation of information in the group financial statements.
with the group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Opinion Chief Executives review incorporating the business review and the In our opinion the group financial statements: Financial Review, cross referred from the business review section of the Directors Report.
give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at We also report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the 30 April 2006 and of its profit for the year then ended: information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and have been properly prepared in accordance with the other transactions is not disclosed.
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the group financial statements.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 59 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GREENE KING PLC Separate Opinion in relation to IFRSs As explained in Note 1 to the group financial statements, the group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the groups affairs as at 30 April 2006 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor Cambridge 4 July 2006 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 60
