INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GREENE KING PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Greene Review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become King plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2006 which comprise the aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Balance Sheet and the related notes 33 to 43.
These parent company the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies extend to any other information.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have reported separately on the group financial statements of on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Greene King plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2006.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' company financial statements, and of whether the accounting report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
company and the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Accounting Practice as set out in the Statement of Directors adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company Responsibilities.
financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Accounting Practice, of the state of the company's affairs as at company financial statements and the part of the Directors 30 April 2006: Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and whether the the parent company financial statements and the part of the information given in the parent company Directors Report is Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the and Chief Executives review incorporating the business review, and the Financial Review, cross referred from the business review section of the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Directors Report.
the parent company financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept Ernst & Young LLP proper accounting records, if we have not received all the Registered auditor information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Cambridge information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and 4 July 2006 other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement and the Operating and Financial GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 65
