NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE FIFTY-TWO WEEKS ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 22.
The group has facilities of 35.0m available with interest linked to base rate.
Bank loans - unsecured Variable rate loan amounts have been drawn down under two revolving credit facilities with nominal values of 450.0m and 210.7m, leaving an undrawn facility of 130.7m.
The amounts drawn down bear interest at a margin above LIBOR, with a commitment payment payable on the undrawn portions.
Interest is payable at each renewal date which vary in maturity.
Although the loans are repayable within 12 months of the balance sheet date, the group expects to renew this funding.
Immediate renewal is available under the facilities until December 2009 for the 450m facility, hence the related debt has been classified as non-current, and March 2007 for the 210.7m facility resulting in the drawn-down portion of that facility being classified as current.
Final repayment of the loans is due as one payment on the repayment date.
The fixed rate loan attracts interest at 6.775% and is payable annually.
The principal is repayable over the term of the loan by annual payments in accordance with the payment schedule.
Bonds - secured On 7 March 2005, 600.0 million of bonds were issued in connection with the securitisation of 904 of the group's pubs held in Greene King Retailing Limited.
The bonds are secured over the properties and their future income streams and were issued by Greene King Finance plc.
The interest on the A1 bonds is payable at a margin above LIBOR.
Interest on the A2 and B1 bonds is 5.32% and 5.70%, respectively.
Payment of interest is made on quarterly dates for all classes of bond.
Repayment of nominal is made by quarterly instalments, in accordance with a fixed repayment schedule, within the date ranges shown above.
The Class A1 and Class A2 bonds rank pari passu in point of security and as to payment of interest and principal, and have preferential interest payment and repayment rights over the Class B1 bonds.
11.25% Loan from associate - secured Interest is payable on the loan semi-annually.
The loan is repayable in one instalment and is secured by a first floating charge over the group's principal trading companies.
7.75% Debenture - secured Interest is payable on the debentures semi-annually.
The debentures are repayable in one instalment and are secured by a first floating charge over the group's principal trading companies.
Loan notes - unsecured Loan notes maturing on 16 August 2006 bear interest at a margin below LIBOR, payable quarterly, and those maturing on 31 December 2010 bear interest at a margin below LIBOR, payable semi-annually.
Loan notes maturing on 31 December 2010 are redeemable on demand of the holders on any of the interest payment dates.
However, the group expects the outstanding notes to be held to maturity and have therefore classified the debt as non-current.
