NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE FIFTY-TWO WEEKS ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 33.
Accounting policies Basis of accounting and presentation The accounts are prepared on a going-concern basis, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting and financial reporting standards in theUnited Kingdom UK GAAP.
They are prepared under the historical cost convention.
The accounting policies are in line with the relevant group accounting policies detailed in note 1 except for the following: Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not been reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not recognised when an asset is sold if it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable when it is more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Provisions for deferred tax are not discounted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost and held as fixed assets on the balance sheet.
Income is recognised from these investments only in relation to distributions received from post-acquisition profits.
Changes in accounting policies The company adopted the following new Financial Reporting Standards in the year ended 30 April 2006.
FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date FRS 21 requires dividends to be recorded in the period in which they are authorised and approved.
Previously, proposed dividends were recorded as liabilities at the end of the period, pending subsequent declaration and approval.
Reversal of the proposed final dividend liability increases equity by 16.9m at 3 May 2004 and 18.8m at 1 May 2005.
Net increase in profit of 1.9m.
FRS 25 Financial instruments - disclosure and presentation The company has adopted the presentation requirements of FRS 25 from 2 May 2005 and has taken advantage of the exemption from the disclosure requirements allowed to parent companies in their solus accounts.
Comparative informaion has not been restated.
FRS 26 Financial instruments - measurement The company has adopted the measurement requirements of FRS 26 from 2 May 2005.
The impact of adopting FRS 26 is summarised as follows: m Interest rate swap liability recognised 10.0 Related deferred tax asset recognised 3.0 7.0 The main adjustments that the company would have made if the comparatives were made to comply with FRS 26 are that the company's portfolio of interest rate swaps would have been recognised on the balance sheet at fair value, designated as cash flow hedges.
The changes in the fair value during the year would have been recognised directly in equity for the effective portion of the hedges and in profit or loss for the ineffective portion.
Profit for the year No profit or loss account is presented for the company as permitted by s230 of the Companies Act 1985.
The profit after tax for the year is 15.8m 2005 - 25.4m.
Auditors' remuneration Auditors' remuneration in respect of the company audit was 15,000 2005 - 15,000.
