NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE FIFTY-TWO WEEKS ENDED 30 APRIL 2006 Corporate information transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on The consolidated financial statements of Greene King plc for the 52 consolidation.
Intra-group losses are also eliminated unless the transaction weeks ended 30 April 2006 were authorised for issue by the board of provides evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
Greene King plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England.
The company's shares are listed Changes in accounting policies on the London Stock Exchange.
The group has adopted those standards mandatory for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Statement of compliance The groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The changes in accounting policies result from adoption of the following International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU as they new or revised standards: apply to the financial statements of the group for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2006 applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies IAS 32 Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Act 1985.
The groups financial statements are also consistent with Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB.
The group has decided to apply the exemption allowed by IFRS 1 First 1.
Accounting policies time adoption of International Reporting Standards and not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 to comparative information.
Instead, UK GAAP has Basis of preparation continued to be applied to financial instruments that fall within the scope The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in of these standards.
Therefore at 2 May 2005, when the standards were accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for adopted, this is classified as a change in accounting policy.
the first time and the comparatives have been restated from UK Generally Accepted Accouting Practice UK GAAP to comply with IFRS, The impact of adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39 is summarised as follows: except as noted below.
They are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand pounds except where m otherwise indicated.
Interest rate swap liability recognised 21.1 Related deferred tax asset recognised 6.3 In the transition to IFRS the 2005 figures have not been adjusted for the 14.8 implementation of IAS 32 Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and The main adjustments that the group would have made if the measurement as permitted by the transition arrangements in IFRS 1 comparatives were made to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39 are that the First time adoption of International Reporting Standards.
Instead, IAS group's portfolio of interest rate swaps would have been recognised on 32 and IAS 39 have been adopted with effect from 2 May 2005.
The the balance sheet at fair value, designated as cash flow hedges.
The reconciliations to IFRS from the previously published UK GAAP financial changes in the fair value during the year would have been recognised statements are included in note 32. directly in equity for the effective portion of the hedges and in profit or loss for the ineffective portion.
The accounting policies adopted for these consolidated financial statements are consistent with those disclosed in a document restating Goodwill the previous UK GAAP financial statements to comply with IFRS which Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the net can be viewed on the group's website.
fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and tested annually for Basis of consolidation impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances The consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts of Greene indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
As such, goodwill is King plc and all its subsidiaries.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Any new or prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and the existing goodwill is not amortised after 3 May 2004.
Any amortisation of accounts of subsidiaries are prepared on the basis of consistent goodwill prior to 3 May 2004 has not been re-instated and the net book accounting policies for consolidation purposes.
Acquisitions are value of goodwill at that date has been carried forward as the carrying accounted for using the purchase method and any goodwill arising is value.
Prior to 3 May 1998, goodwill was written off to reserves and has capitalised as an intangible asset.
The results of subsidiaries are not been re-instated.
consolidated, using the purchase method of accounting, with subsidiaries acquired or disposed of being included from or up to the date on which For the purposes of impairment testing goodwill is allocated at business control of the net assets and operations effectively passes.
Intercompany segment level which is the lowest group of cash-generating units where GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 27
