22 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Directors Report and Business Review continued PROGRESS DURING 2006 Over the past 12 months we CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED have made good progress against our environmental policy THE ENVIRONMENT The Company recognises the and commitment.
Carbon reduction through our SEBA energy importance of protecting our environment for future efficiency drive has led to achieving our business plan target generations and is committed to carrying out its activities of 10% reduction in energy usage from production operations.
with due consideration for the environmental impacts of its Partnership work has been carried out with the Carbon Trust operations and in line with Our Values.
to identify carbon reduction measures in both production sites and shops and as a result of this work monitoring and targeting ENVIRONMENT POLICY We are committed to an on-going systems are being trialled in two parts of the country as an programme of continual reduction of any adverse impacts of introduction to full energy targeting.
our operations in achieving our long-term business objectives.
To manage this, the Company is continuing to progress the Recognised externally trained environmental managers are following: now in place across the business and this has led to increased activity across the Group relating to recycling and compliance with all relevant environmental legislation, waste reduction.
For example, the Greggs of Yorkshire regulation and other requirements applicable to the recycling centre in Leeds has led to a reduction in waste to Company or to which the Company subscribes: landfill 45,000 annual saving and resulted in fewer collections reduction of waste at source via the efficient use of at shop level also assisting in reducing damage via transport resources and encourage reuse and recycling of waste: emissions.
We are exploring the possibility of waste to energy increasing energy efficiency at all its sites: technology, and how we might develop this in the future.
monitoring and improving the performance of vehicles AUDITORS owned by Greggs plc: AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE AND POLICY ON THE working towards ensuring that policies and procedures USE OF THE AUDITORS FOR NON-AUDIT WORK are in place so that accidents incidents with potential The Audit Committee has reviewed whether, and is satisfied adverse environmental impact are controlled as far as is that, the Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, continue to reasonably practicable: be objective and independent of the Company.
KPMG Audit Plc does perform non-audit services for the Group but the progressively making employees aware of the Audit Committee is satisfied that its objectivity is not environmental issues relevant to their role within impaired by such work non-audit fees amounted to 78,000 Greggs plc: during 2006 and related to taxation compliance services and taking into account the adverse impact on the environment pensions advice.
The Audit Committee's policy to ensure that of any capital expenditure project.
the auditor's objectivity is not impaired by non-audit work is that the Company should be able to incur fees of up to GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 23 100,000 per year on non-audit work inclusive of tax compliance advice.
Any fees in excess of this must be discussed in advance with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Companys internal audit function assists in the monitoring of systems of control and augments the examination carried out by the external auditors.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS Each of the directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors' report confirms that, so far as he she is individually aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware: and that he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information.
In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Andrew Davison Secretary Greggs plc CRN 502851 Fernwood House Clayton Road Jesmond Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 1TL 12 March 2007
