Parent Company Accounts Under UK GAAP The Company has elected to prepare its financial statements under UK GAAP: these policies are outlined on page 77.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halfords Group plc We have audited the parent company financial This report, including the opinion, has been prepared statements of Halfords Group plc for the 52 weeks to for and only for the Companys members as a body in 31 March 2006 which comprise the Profit and Loss accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act Account, the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
We do not, in giving this These parent company financial statements have been opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is We have also audited the information in the Directors shown or into whose hands it may come save where Remuneration Report that is described as having been expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent We have reported separately on the Group financial company financial statements give a true and fair view statements of Halfords Group plc for the 52 weeks to and whether the parent company financial statements 31 March 2006. and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual whether in our opinion the information given in the Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company parent company financial statements in accordance financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted records, if we have not received all the information and Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of explanations we require for our audit, or if information Directors Responsibilities.
specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
74 Independent Auditors Report Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halfords Group plc We read other information contained in the Annual Opinion Report and consider whether it is consistent with the In our opinion: audited parent company financial statements.
The otherthe parent company financial statements give a true information comprises only the Directors Report, the and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2006: Review, the Finance Directors Report and thethe parent company financial statements and the Corporate Governance statement.
We consider the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be implications for our report if we become aware of any audited have been properly prepared in accordance apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Companies Act 1985: and with the parent company financial statements.
Ourthe information given in the Directors Report is responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with  LLP International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Birmingham includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence 7 June 2006 relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Independent Auditors Report 75
