Accounting Policies Basis of preparation The accounts of the Company are prepared for the period up to the Friday closest to 31 March each year.
Consequently, the financial statements for the current period cover the 52 weeks to 31 March 2006, whilst the comparative period covered the 52 weeks to 1 April 2005.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, applicable accounting standards and specifically in accordance with the Accounting Policies set out below.
A consolidated cash flow statement has been included in the Halfords Group plc consolidated accounts.
The Company has therefore taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 1 Revised 1996 Cash flow statements not to produce a cash flow statement.
Changes in accounting policies The Company has adopted FRS 20 Share-based payment and FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date.
The adoption of each of these standards represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
The effect of the change in accounting policy to adopt FRS 20 was to recognise a charge to the profit and loss account in relation to share-based payments of 1.3m 2005: 1.0m.
The effect of the change in accounting policy to adopt FRS 21 was to recognise the final proposed dividend for the 52 weeks to 1 April 2005 of 18.9m in the current year.
The final proposed dividend of the current year of 19.9m will be recognised in the following year as it has yet to be approved by the shareholders.
Pensions Employees are offered membership of Halfords Pension Plan, a defined contribution pension arrangement.
The costs of the contribution to the scheme are charged to the profit and loss account in the period that they arise.
Share-based payments The Company operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received under such schemes is recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account.
Fair value is determined by use of the Black Scholes Option Pricing Model.
The amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of share incentives, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of share incentives that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of share incentives that are expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, is recognised in the profit and loss account, with a corresponding adjustment to equity, over the remaining vesting period.
If any of the beneficiaries of the schemes are employed in the Companys subsidiary companies, any associated costs are recharged to those subsidiary companies.
Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at the original cost of the investments.
Provision is made against cost where, in the opinion of the directors, the value of the investments has been impaired.
Equity dividends Final dividends are recognised in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders.
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Financial Statements 77
