Shareholder Information Analysis of shareholders As at 31 March 2006, the number of registered shareholders was 1,890 and the number of ordinary shares in issue was 228,027,743.
Each shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Dividend payments The proposed final dividend if approved will be paid on 14 August 2006 to shareholders on the register on 16 June 2006.
Payment of dividends by BACS Many shareholders have already arranged for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to their bank or building society account.
The Company mandates dividends through the BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
The benefit to shareholders of the BACS payment method is that the Registrar posts the tax vouchers directly to them, whilst the dividend is credited on the payment date to the shareholders bank or building society account.
Shareholders who have not yet arranged for their dividends to be paid direct to their bank or building society account and wish to benefit from this service should complete the mandate form attached to their dividend tax voucher or, alternatively, request the Companys Registrar address below to send them a dividend mandate form.
Dividend reinvestment plan The Company offers a dividend reinvestment plan that gives shareholders the opportunity to use their cash dividend to buy Halfords Group plc ordinary shares.
The plan is run by Capita IRG Plc Capita.
For further information on the plan and how to join please contact Capita at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU tel: 0870 162 3100 or the Company Secretary.
Shareholder information on the Internet The Company maintains an investor relations section on its website www.
com which allows access to share price information, management biographies, copies of Company reports and other useful investor information.
Halfords Group plc is registered in England and Wales Number 4457314.
A copy of this Annual Report is being sent to all shareholders.
Copies are also available from the registered office shown below.
The Report is also placed on the investor relations section of the Companys website, www.
80 Shareholder Information Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Company Information Registered and Head Office Joint Brokers Halfords Group plc Merrill Lynch International Icknield Street Drive 2 King Edward Street Redditch London Worcestershire EC1A 1HQ B98 0DE Citigroup Registrars 33 Canada Square Capita IRG Plc London The Registry E14 5LB 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Solicitors Kent Clifford Chance LLP BR3 4TU 10 Upper Bank Street London Auditors E14 5JJ  LLP Cornwall Court 19 Cornwall Street Birmingham B3 2DT Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Company Information 81 Designed and Printed by Jones & Palmer Limited, Birmingham.
