106 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twelfth annual and shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general general meeting of Halma p. l. c. will be held at The Ballroom, The meeting of the Company, save that the Company may make Berkeley Hotel, Wilton Place, London SW1X 7RL on Wednesday, any offer or agreement before such expiry which would or 2 August 2006 at 11.30 am for the following purposes: might require equity securities to be allotted or equity securities held as treasury shares to be sold after such Ordinary business expiry: and the Directors may allot equity securities and or sell 1 To approve the Report of the Directors, the audited part of equity securities held as treasury shares in pursuance of any the Report on remuneration and the Accounts for the period such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power of 52 weeks to 1 April 2006. conferred hereby has expired: words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of Section 89 to 96 inclusive of 2 To declare a dividend on the ordinary shares.
the Companies Act 1985 shall bear the same meanings in this 3 To approve the Report on remuneration as set out on resolution.
pages 95 to 99 of the Report and accounts for the 52 weeks 11 That the Company be and is hereby generally and to 1 April 2006. unconditionally authorised to make market purchases 4 To re-elect as a Director Andrew J Walker who retires from within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act the Board by rotation and being eligible offers himself for 1985 of ordinary shares of 10p each ordinary shares re-election.
provided that: 5 To re-elect as a Director Richard A Stone who retires from a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to the Board by rotation and being eligible offers himself for be acquired is 36,000,000 ordinary shares, having an re-election.
aggregate nominal value of 3,600,000: 6 To re-elect as a Director Keith J Roy who retires from the b the maximum price which may be paid for any ordinary Board by rotation and being eligible offers himself for share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the re-election.
middle market quotations for such an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchanges Daily Official 7 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors.
List for the five business days immediately preceding the 8 To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of day on which the share is contracted to be purchased the Auditors.
and the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share shall be the nominal value of that share: Special business and To consider, and if thought fit, pass the following special c the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the resolutions: conclusion of the Companys next annual general meeting 9 That the regulations contained in the document produced to except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares the this meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of contract for which was concluded before such date and identification, are approved and adopted as new Articles of which would or might be executed wholly or partly after Association in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the such date, unless such authority is renewed prior to such existing Articles of Association.
10 That the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot or to make entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and on a poll, any offer or agreement to allot equity securities as defined in vote on his or her behalf.
A proxy need not be a shareholder Section 94 2 of the Companies Act 1985 of the Company of the Company.
A personalised form of proxy is enclosed.
pursuant to the authority contained in Resolution 10 passed Completion of a form of proxy or submission of proxy at the Companys annual general meeting on 1 August 2002 instructions electronically will not prevent a shareholder and or sell equity securities held as treasury shares for cash from attending the meeting and voting in person.
pursuant to Section 162D of the Companies Act 1985, in By order of the Board each case as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that such power shall be limited to the allotment and or sale of equity securities: C T Chesney Secretary a pursuant to the terms of any share scheme for employees Misbourne Court approved by the Company in general meeting: and Rectory Way b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above, up Amersham to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,845,000, Bucks HP7 0DE 3 July 2006 Halma p. l. c. 2006 107 In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, a summary of any transactions during the past year by the Directors and their family interests in the Companys shares and copies of Directors service contracts will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company from the date of the above notice until 2 August 2006 and at The Berkeley Hotel from 11:15 am on the day of the meeting until the close of the meeting.
Copies of the proposed new Articles of Association of Halma p. l. c. are available for inspection at the offices of CMS Cameron McKenna LLP, Mitre House, 160 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4DD from the date of the above notice until the close of the meeting and will also be available for inspection at the Berkeley Hotel 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Full biographical information on the Directors proposed for re-election appears on pages 86 and 87 of the Report and accounts.
Denotes membership of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees of the Board.
The Boards present intention is that the shares purchased under the authority will to the extent statutory requirements are met be held in treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash or transfer for the purposes of, or pursuant to, an employee share scheme, although in the light of circumstances at the time it may be decided to cancel them immediately on repurchase.
