90 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report The Directors are also required to: and the Group and Company financial statements, in accordance properly select and apply accounting policies: with applicable law and regulations.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that information: law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting for the Group financial statements, provide additional Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of UK Accounting Standards.
particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any in relation to such financial statements that references in the material departures disclosed and explained in the Company relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and financial statements.
fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The Company financial statements are required by law to give a records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Report of the Directors and Directors Report on remuneration and business and financial review which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
