Halma p. l. c. 2006 81 Independent Auditors report to the members of Halma p. l. c. We have audited the individual Company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Halma p. l. c. for the 52 weeks to 1 April 2006 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Balance sheet together with the statement of Accounting policies Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing and the related notes numbered C1 to C13.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Company financial statements have been prepared under the of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounting policies set out therein.
The Corporate governance individual Company financial statements.
It also includes an statement and the Directors Report on remuneration are assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by included in the Group Annual report of Halma p. l. c. for the the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and 52 weeks to 1 April 2006.
We have reported separately on the of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Group financial statements of Halma p. l. c. for the 52 weeks to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and 1 April 2006 and on the information in the Directors Report on adequately disclosed.
remuneration that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to assurance that the individual Company financial statements the Companys members those matters we are required to are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company in the individual Company financial statements.
and the Companys members as a body for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors the individual Company financial statements give a true The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and fair view in accordance with United Kingdom Generally and the individual Company financial statements in accordance Accepted Accounting Principles of the state of affairs of the with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Company as at 1 April 2006: United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
the individual Company financial statements have been Our responsibility is to audit the individual Company financial properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal 1985: and and regulatory requirements and International Standards on the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent Auditing UK and Ireland.
with the individual Company financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in Deloitte & Touche LLP accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors whether the individual Company financial statements have been Reading properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
20 June 2006 We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the individual Company financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the Report of the Directors and the other information contained in the Annual report for the above period as described in the contents section and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the individual Company financial statements.
The amounts disclosed for periods up to and including 2003 04 are stated on the basis of UK GAAP, as it is not practicable to restate amounts prior to the date of transition to IFRS.
The principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS are explained in note 29 to the accounts, which explains the transition to IFRS.
From continuing and discontinued operations.
Adjusted to remove amortisation of goodwill and acquired intangible assets.
IFRS figures include results of discontinued operations up to the date of their sales or closure but exclude profit on sale or closure.
Return on sales is defined as profit before taxation, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items expressed as a percentage of revenue.
Return on capital employed is defined in note 3 to the accounts.
UK GAAP figures prior to 2000 01 have not been restated for the adoption of FRS 19 Deferred Taxation.
