44 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Accounting policies Basis of accounting and is recognised as an intangible asset in the Consolidated The accounts are prepared under International Financial balance sheet.
Goodwill therefore includes non-identified Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European intangible assets including business processes, know-how and Union EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS workforce-related industry-specific knowledge and technical legislation and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 that skills.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisitions would be are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial recognised directly in the Consolidated income statement.
statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS On closure or disposal of an acquired business, this goodwill and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee would be taken into account in determining the profit or loss IFRIC interpretations issued and effective or issued and early on closure or disposal.
adopted at the time of preparing these accounts.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected not to apply IFRS Halma p. l. c. and its subsidiary companies the Group adopted 3 Business Combinations to acquisitions prior to 4 April 2004 IFRS for their consolidated Group accounts with a transition in its consolidated accounts.
As a result, the net book value of date of 4 April 2004.
Comparative figures for the year ended goodwill recognised as an intangible asset under UK GAAP 2 April 2005 and the Consolidated balance sheet as at at 3 April 2004 was brought forward unadjusted as the cost 2 April 2005 that were previously reported under applicable of goodwill recognised under IFRS at 4 April 2004 subject to United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles impairment testing on that date: and goodwill that was written UK GAAP have been restated to comply with IFRS.
off to reserves prior to 28 March 1998 under UK GAAP will Details of this restatement are given in note 29 to the accounts.
not be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on disposal or closure of previously acquired businesses from IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of IFRS allows certain exemptions 4 April 2004 onwards.
from the retrospective application of IFRS prior to 4 April 2004.
Where these exemptions have been used, they are explained Other intangible assets under the relevant headings below.
a Product development costs The principal Group accounting policies are explained below Research expenditure is written off in the financial year in which and have been applied consistently in preparing an opening it is incurred.
IFRS Consolidated balance sheet at 3 April 2004 and throughout Development expenditure is written off in the financial year in the years ended 2 April 2005 and 1 April 2006. which it is incurred, unless it relates to the development of a new The Group accounts have been prepared under the historical or substantially improved product, is incurred after the technical cost convention, except as described below under the heading feasibility and economic viability of the product has been proven Financial Instruments.
and the decision to complete the development has been taken, and can be measured reliably.
Such expenditure is capitalised The preparation of Group accounts in conformity with IFRS as an intangible asset in the Consolidated balance sheet at cost requires the Directors to make judgments, estimates and and is amortised through the Consolidated income statement assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to be b Acquired intangible assets reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form An intangible resource acquired with a subsidiary undertaking the basis of making judgments about carrying values of assets is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is Actual results may differ from these estimates.
expected to generate future economic benefits and its fair value can be measured reliably.
An acquired intangible asset is The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of between in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision three and ten years.
affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
c Computer software The key areas where estimates have been used and Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, assumptions applied are in impairment testing of goodwill and plant or equipment is recognised separately as an intangible in assessing the defined benefit pension scheme liabilities.
asset, and is amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic Basis of consolidation life of between three and five years.
The Group accounts include the accounts of Halma p. l. c. and Impairment of non-current assets its subsidiary companies made up to 1 April 2006, adjusted All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events to eliminate intra-Group transactions, balances, income and or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be expenses.
The results of subsidiary companies acquired or impaired.
Additionally, goodwill and capitalised development discontinued are included from the month of their acquisition expenditure relating to a product that is not yet in full production or to the month of their discontinuation.
are subject to an annual impairment test.
Goodwill An impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated income Goodwill in respect of acquisitions after 4 April 2004 represents statement to the extent that an assets carrying value exceeds the difference between the cost of an acquisition and the fair its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of the value of the net identifiable assets of the business acquired, assets net realisable value and its value in use.
An assets Halma p. l. c. 2006 45 value in use represents the present value of the future cash The Group uses foreign currency borrowings to hedge its flows expected to be derived from the asset or from the cash investment in foreign subsidiaries.
The effective part of any gain generating unit to which it relates.
The present value is calculated or loss on these currency borrowings is recognised directly in using a post-tax discount rate that reflects the current market the Translation reserve within Shareholders equity.
The ineffective assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income to the asset concerned.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset Revenue other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in Revenue represents sales, less returns, by subsidiary companies the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount, to external customers excluding value added tax and other but only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does sales related taxes.
Transactions are recorded as sales when not exceed its carrying amount had no impairment loss been the delivery of products or performance of services takes place recognised in previous periods.
Impairment losses in respect of in accordance with the contracted terms of sale.
Provisions Foreign currencies A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or amount, and is The Group presents its accounts in Sterling.
Transactions in recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date and the amount can be reliably estimated.
are reported at the rates prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is Property, plant and equipment included as an exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less income statement.
provisions for impairment and depreciation which, with the Net assets of overseas subsidiary companies are expressed exception of freehold land which is not depreciated, is provided in Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the on a straight-line basis over each assets estimated economic life.
financial year, and trading results and cash flows at the average The principal annual rates used for this purpose are: rates of exchange for the financial year.
Goodwill arising on the Freehold buildings 2% acquisition of a foreign business is treated as an asset of the Leasehold properties: foreign entity and is translated at the rate of exchange ruling at more than 50 years unexpired 2% the end of the financial year.
Exchange gains or losses arising on less than 50 years unexpired Period of lease these translations are taken to the Translation reserve within Plant, machinery and equipment 8% to 20% Shareholders equity.
Motor vehicles 20% 1 In the event that an overseas subsidiary is disposed or closed, Short-life tooling 33 3% the profit or loss on disposal or closure will be determined after taking into account the cumulative translation difference held Leases within the Translation reserve attributable to that subsidiary.
Leases that confer rights and obligations similar to those As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected to deem the that attach to owned assets are classified as finance leases.
Translation reserve to be nil at 4 April 2004.
Accordingly, the All other leases are classified as operating leases.
profit or loss on disposal or closure of foreign subsidiaries will not Assets held under finance leases are included within property, include any currency translation differences which arose before plant and equipment and initially measured at their fair value 4 April 2004. or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments, and a corresponding liability is recognised within the Financial instruments Consolidated balance sheet as obligations under finance leases.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or Subsequently the assets are depreciated on a basis consistent trading purposes, but uses forward foreign currency contracts with owned assets or over the term of the lease, if shorter.
At the to reduce its exposure to exchange rate movements.
Under UK inception of the lease, the lease rentals are apportioned between GAAP, transactions in foreign currency that were matched by a an interest element and a capital element so as to produce a forward currency contract were translated at the contracted rate.
constant periodic rate of interest on the outstanding liability.
From 4 April 2004, forward currency contracts are measured at Subsequently, the interest element is recognised as a charge to cost usually zero and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
the Consolidated income statement and the capital element is Where a forward currency contract is designated as a hedge applied to reduce the outstanding liability.
against variability in the cash flows of a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective Operating lease rentals, and any incentives receivable, are part of any gain or loss on the forward contract is recognised charged to the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line in Shareholders equity.
The cumulative gain or loss is removed basis over the lease term.
from Shareholders equity and recognised in the Consolidated income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss, or gains or losses on forward currency contracts that are not designated as hedges, are recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement.
46 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Accounting policies continued Pensions All awards under this plan are equity-settled and are subject The Group makes contributions to various pension schemes, to both market based and non-market based vesting criteria.
covering the majority of its employees.
Their fair value at the date of grant is established by using an appropriate simulation method to reflect the likelihood of For defined benefit schemes, the asset or liability recorded in market-based performance conditions being met.
The fair the balance sheet is the difference between the fair value of value is charged to the Consolidated income statement on a the schemes assets and the present value of the defined straight-line basis over the vesting period, with appropriate obligation at that date.
The defined benefit obligation is adjustments being made during this period to reflect expected calculated separately for each scheme on an annual basis by and actual forfeitures arising from the non-market based independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The corresponding credit is All actuarial gains and losses as at 3 April 2004 were recognised to Shareholders equity.
in full in the Consolidated balance sheet at that date.
All actuarial gains and losses arising after 4 April 2004 are taken to Inventories Shareholders equity.
Inventories and work in progress of subsidiary companies are included at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is Current and past service costs, along with the impact of any calculated either on a first in, first out or an average cost basis settlements or curtailments, are charged to the Consolidated and includes direct materials and the appropriate proportion of income statement.
Interest on pension schemes liabilities are production and other overheads considered by the Directors to recognised within finance expense and the expected return on be attributable to bringing the inventories to their location and the schemes assets are recognised within finance income in condition at the year end.
Net realisable value represents the the Consolidated income statement.
estimated selling price less all estimated costs to complete and Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
the Consolidated income statement when they fall due.
Taxation Employee share schemes Taxation comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the in the Consolidated income statement except to the extent that Groups share incentive plan, the share option plans and the it relates to items recognised directly in Shareholders equity, in performance share plan.
which case it is recognised in Shareholders equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, a Share incentive plan using tax rates enacted or subsequently enacted at the balance Awards of shares under the share incentive plan are made to sheet date, along with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of qualifying employees depending on salary and service criteria.
Taxable profit differs from net profits as reported The shares awarded under this plan are purchased in the in the Consolidated income statement because it excludes items market by the plans trustees at the time of the award, and that are never taxable or deductible.
are then held in trust for a minimum of three years.
The costs of this plan are recognised in the Consolidated income statement Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the over the three-year vesting periods of the awards.
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes and is b Share option plans accounted for using the balance sheet liability method, apart All grants of options under the 1990 and 1996 share option plans from the following differences which are not provided for: and the 1999 company share option plan together, the share goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: the initial recognition option plans are equity-settled, and so, as permitted by IFRS 1, of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable the provisions of IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment have been profits: differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the applied only to options awarded on or after 7 November 2002 extent they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
which had not vested at 3 April 2005.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected The fair value of awards under these plans has been measured manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model and will not of assets and liabilities, using tax rates and laws which are be subsequently remeasured.
The fair value is charged to the expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised expected vesting period, with adjustments being made during to the extent that recovery is probable.
this period to reflect expected and actual forfeitures and changes to the vesting period itself arising from non-market based Cash and cash equivalents performance conditions.
The corresponding credit is to Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits Shareholders equity.
with an initial maturity of less than three months, and bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.
Bank overdrafts are No further awards will be made under the share option plans shown within borrowings in current liabilities in the Consolidated after 3 August 2005. balance sheet.
c Performance share plan On 3 August 2005 the share option plans were replaced by the Dividends performance share plan.
Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the distribution is approved by the Companys shareholders.
