Investor information 125 Financial calendar Ordinary ADS CDI Final dividend for the year to December 31, 2006 shareholders holders holders Ex-dividend date April 4, 2007 April 5, 2007 April 2, 2007 Record date April 10, 2007 April 10, 2007 April 10, 2007 Payment date May 4, 2007 May 11, 2007 May 11, 2007 Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM Interim dividend for the six months to June 30, 2007 payable September 2007 provisional Interim 2007 Full year 2007 August 1, 2007 February 21, 2008 Results announcements provisional Dividends Cash dividends are paid to shareholders as of record dates that are fixed in accordance with the dividend procedure timetable published by the London Stock Exchange.
Hanson pays an interim dividend, normally in September, and a final dividend, subject to receiving shareholder approval at the AGM, normally at the end of April or early May following the end of the financial year.
For the tax treatment of dividends paid to shareholders resident in the USA, please refer to the Ancillary Information section of this report.
For holders of ADSs and CDIs, the dividend base rate is declared in pence and is converted to US dollars for ADS holders and Australian dollars for CDI holders on the UK dividend payment date using the prevailing exchange rates on that day.
Payment of the final dividend for the year ended December 31, 2006 to holders of ADSs and CDIs will be on May 11, 2007.
Ordinary shareholders who wish to have future dividends paid direct into their bank or building society account should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address shown on the inside back cover.
Payment to banks outside the UK is available to private shareholders subject to a small charge.
Dividend policy The Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy, although this will be subject to maintaining a reasonable level of dividend cover over the mediumterm.
The increase of 10.0% in the dividend for 2002, of 10.1% for 2003, of 7.1% for 2004, of 10.2% for 2005, followed by an increase of 9% for 2006 reflects our progressive approach to dividend payments.
Future dividends will be dependent upon Hansons earnings, financial condition and other factors.
Major shareholders To its knowledge, Hanson is not owned or controlled directly or indirectly by any government or by any other corporation.
As of February 19, 2007, Hanson has been notified of the following persons who, directly or indirectly, are interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital, excluding shares held in treasury.
The voting rights of the major shareholders listed below are the same as for the other holders of ordinary shares or ADSs.
Number of % of issued share Name ordinary shares million capital at date of notification Vanguard Windsor Funds Vanguard Windsor II Fund 39.1 5.3 Legal & General Investment Management 36.9 5.0 Zurich Financial Services 28.4 4.0 Prudential plc 22.9 3.2 Standard Life Group 22.4 3.0 Barclays Bank plc 21.7 3.0 Other than as identified above and interests held as bare nominee, Hanson has not been notified of any other interests in 5% or more of the ordinary shares including ADSs in the three years prior to the date of the Annual Report and Form 20-F. As at February 19, 2007, 14.2m ADSs were held of record in the USA.
The 70.8m ordinary shares 9.9% of the issued share capital, excluding shares held in treasury, representing those ADSs were registered in the name of National City Nominees Limited.
As of February 19, 2007, approximately 0.3m ordinary shares were held of record in the USA by approximately 250 record holders.
Hanson believes that as of February 19, 2007, approximately 7.6% of its outstanding ordinary shares were also beneficially owned by US holders.
Since certain of these securities are held by brokers or other nominees, the number of holders of record in the USA may not be representative of the number of beneficial owners or of where the beneficial owners are resident.
Ordinary shareholders As at February 19, 2007 there were 736,968,849 ordinary shares in issue, of which 24,645,000 were held in treasury.
Investor information 126 Investor information Listings Hanson ordinary shares are listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority the Official List and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
The 7.875% notes due 2010 of the Company are also listed on the Official List and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
In the USA, Hanson ordinary shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of ADSs and trade under the symbol HAN.
Each ADS represents five Hanson ordinary shares.
Each ADS is evidenced by a direct-registered ADS unless an American Depositary Receipt is specifically requested by the holder.
Citibank N. A. is the ADS Depositary under a Deposit Agreement, dated as of October 14, 2003.
Hanson Building Materials America, Inc. whose office is at 300 East John Carpenter Freeway, Irving, TX 75062, USA, is Hansons agent in the USA in respect of ADSs.
The 5.25% notes due 2013 of Hanson Australia Funding Limited and 6.125% unsecured notes due 2016 of the Company are also listed on the NYSE.
Hanson is subject to the regulations of the SEC in the USA as they apply to foreign companies.
In Australia, Hanson ordinary shares are listed on the Australian Stock Exchange in the form of CDIs.
Each CDI represents one Hanson ordinary share.
Hanson Australia Pty Limited, whose office is at Level 6, 35 Clarence Street, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia, is Hansons agent in Australia in respect of CDIs.
The following table shows, for the periods indicated, i the reported high and low sales prices based on the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for Hanson ordinary shares and ii the reported high and low sales prices on the NYSE for Hanson ADSs.
Shareholders being sent the Annual Report and Form 20-F have also received a separate notice of the AGM, incorporating explanatory notes of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
Holders of ADSs and CDIs are not members of the Company but may instruct their respective depositary as to the exercise of voting rights at the AGM pertaining to the number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs and CDIs.
Ordinary shareholders may submit their proxy electronically via the internet at www.
co. uk or, if they have already registered with Lloyds TSB Registrars on-line portfolio service, they may appoint their proxy by visiting www.
Ordinary shareholders who are CREST participants may use the CREST proxy voting service for submitting electronic proxy appointments and voting instructions for the AGM.
Full instructions on using these electronic voting options are included on the separate notice of the AGM.
biz Our website is a good source of information about Hanson.
You can download corporate reports, news releases and investor presentations, consult frequently asked questions, check dividend information and use share price tools.
It is also possible to sign up to our email distribution service for news releases and other corporate information through which you will receive a notification email two days prior to results announcements and reports being published.
Electronic shareholder communications Hanson encourages shareholders to elect to receive shareholder documents electronically by downloading them from the Companys website.
The information you receive will be the same as the printed version but receiving electronically means you receive it quicker and reduces the number of bulky reports mailed which will help conserve environmental resources and will help save the Company money.
Shareholders choosing to take advantage of this option, which is free to shareholders, will receive an e-mail notification each time a shareholder publication is placed on the Companys website.
Please note that those so electing will be able to change their mind about receiving documents by electronic notification at any time and that it will be the responsibility of the shareholder to notify any change of e-mail address.
Ordinary shareholders who wish to register to receive future shareholder documents electronically should access the Shareview facility provided by Lloyds TSB Registrars at www.
To register, shareholders will need their shareholder reference number which can be found on the share certificate or dividend voucher.
Agreement to the terms and conditions applying will be sought at the end of the registration process.
The registration facility is now open.
Lloyds TSB Registrars will be happy to answer any queries on 0870 600 0632 if calling from the UK or 44 121 415 7085 if calling from overseas.
biz 127 Shareholder facilities Any enquiries relating to ordinary shareholdings should be addressed to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Up-to-date information on holdings, including balance movements and information on recent dividends, can be found on www.
co. uk, where ordinary shareholders can also notify a change of address and set up or change dividend mandate instructions.
Investors in the UK may take advantage of a postal low-cost share dealing service to buy or sell Hanson ordinary shares, held in a certificated form, in a simple, economic manner.
Basic commission is 1% with a minimum charge of 15.
Purchases are subject to Stamp Duty Reserve Tax of 0.5%.
Full details can be obtained from Hoare Govett Limited, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA.
Alternatively, Lloyds TSB Registrars offer Shareview Dealing, a service which allows UK resident shareholders to sell or purchase Hanson ordinary shares via the internet by logging on to www.
co. uk dealing or via telephone on 0870 850 0852.
Holders of Hanson CDIs with a value of less than A$15,000 can take advantage of a facility, offered by Link Market Services Limited, to sell all their shares in a cost-effective and efficient manner.
Full details on this share sale facility can be obtained by contacting Link Market Services Limited on 61 0 2 8280 7111.
There is a dividend reinvestment programme DRIP for registered holders of Hanson ADSs who reside in the USA or Canada.
This programme provides holders with a convenient and economical method lower brokerage commissions of investing cash dividends and optional cash deposits in additional ADSs at the market price, by having their purchases combined with those of other participants.
For more information or a copy of the Hanson DRIP booklet call Citibank Shareholder Services on 877 248 4237 or write to Citibank at the address shown on the inside back cover.
Holders of ADSs and CDIs should address enquiries to Citibank Shareholder Services and Link Market Services Limited details on the inside back cover, respectively.
ShareGift Ordinary shareholders with only a small number of shares including many overseas shareholders whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, an independent charity share donation scheme.
Since inception ShareGift advise they have been able to donate millions of pounds to hundreds of UK charities.
The relevant share transfer form may be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
ShareGift is administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity no.
Further information about ShareGift may be obtained on 020 7828 1151 or from www.
There are no implications for capital gains tax purposes no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is now also possible to obtain income tax relief.
Unsolicited mail As UK law obliges companies to make their share registers available to other organisations, shareholders may receive unsolicited mail.
Shareholders in the UK who wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail they receive should contact the mailing preference service either by telephone on 0845 703 4599, online at www.
uk or by writing to Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
