qxp 23 2 07 22:24 Page 55 55 Critical accounting policies Pensions and other post-employment The following section explains where, requirement for such actions and their benefit plans in these financial statements, we have costs is inherently difficult to estimate and Under IFRS, the group applies IAS 19 exercised judgement in applying the is based on current information on costs Employee benets.
Under US GAAP, the groups key accounting policies and critical and expected plans for remediation.
Actual group has adopted SFAS 158 Employers estimates in areas which are by their nature costs can differ from estimates over time Accounting for Dened benefit Pension inherently uncertain.
Although we have because of changes in existing laws and Plans and Other Post-Retirement Plans used all of the information currently regulations, public expectations, new sites as at December 31, 2006, amending the available to us in making such critical arising and unknown conditions being accounting methodology under SFAS 87 estimates, changes to our assumptions encountered.
Employers Accounting for Pensions and in these areas could materially affect the SFAS 106 Employers Accounting for financial results and position shown in this Impairment Post-Retirement Benets other than document.
Hansons significant accounting The group applies IAS 36 Impairment Pensions on a prospective basis.
policies in accordance with IFRS are set out of Assets under IFRS and SFAS 144 on pages 74 to 76 of the Annual Report These accounting standards require the Accounting for the impairment of long-lived and Form 20-F. Where estimates have been group to make assumptions including, but assets and for long-lived assets to be used, it is possible that over time the actual not limited to, future asset returns, rates of disposed of together with SFAS 142 results upon which the judgment was based ination, discount rates, life expectancies Goodwill and other intangible assets could differ from those estimates.
The use of different under US GAAP.
assumptions, in any of the above The group considers the following are the Under IFRS, the group compares the calculations, could have a material effect on critical policies where assumptions and carrying value of goodwill and tangible the accounting values of the relevant assets judgments could have a significant impact assets with the higher of their net realisable and liabilities which could result in a on the consolidated financial statements.
value and value in use explained below, material change to the cost of such to determine whether an impairment exists.
liabilities as recognised in the income Legal and other disputes Under US GAAP, the group assesses the statement over time.
These assumptions are Some of the groups subsidiaries are fair value and recoverability of goodwill by subject to periodic review.
See note 28 of subject to a number of legal disputes, the Notes to the accounts for additional comparing the implied fair value of goodwill the most significant of which are asbestos information regarding the groups pension with the actual goodwill attributable to a claims against a number of its US and other post-employment benets.
Provisions for anticipated settlement costs and associated expenses Value in use is calculated by discounting Taxation arising from legal and other disputes are the cash ows expected to be generated by significant judgement is required in made where a reliable estimate can be the asset group of assets, being tested for determining the provision for income taxes.
made of the probable outcome of the evidence of impairment.
The use of different At any given time, the group is undergoing dispute.
Where it is not possible to make estimates, assumptions and judgments, in tax audits in several tax jurisdictions and such an estimate, no provision is made.
particular those involved in a determining covering multiple years.
The group has Our approach to providing for asbestos is a value based on our current expectations provisions for taxes that may become explained in note 21 of the Notes to the of future industry conditions and the payable in future periods as a result of accounts.
associated cash ows from the groups these tax audits.
The group recognises operations, but also those involving our liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues Environmental obligations future intentions for assets which are based on estimates of whether additional Some of the groups subsidiaries are also taxes will be due.
Where the final outcome currently non-operational, b our subject to environmental obligations for of these matters is different from the determination of the level at which groups clean-up and remediation costs, pursuant amounts provided, such differences will of assets can be reasonably tested for to environmental laws and regulations.
impact the tax provisions in the period in impairment separately from other parts of Provisions are made for environmental which such determination is made.
obligations and related costs which are the business and c our treatment of centrally held assets, could each result in probable and reliably estimable and where a legal or contractual obligation to remedymaterially different carrying values of assets known exposures exists.
The ultimate and assessments of impairment.
