128 Ancillary information Average Description of business Year ended December 31, 2002 1.51 General development of business Hanson became a business focused purely on building materials in 1997 Year ended December 31, 2003 1.65 following the demerger of the old Hanson conglomerate.
The major building Year ended December 31, 2004 1.84 materials companies remaining within Hanson at the time were ARC, Hanson Year ended December 31, 2005 1.82 Brick and Cornerstone.
Year ending December 31, 2006 1.86 Year ending December 31, 2007 through February 19, 2007 1.96 Hanson management transformed the business into a world leading building materials company through a series of disposals and acquisitions, the largest The following table sets forth the high and low noon buying rates for the last of which was the acquisition of the Australian construction materials business, six months in US dollars per 1 to the nearest cent.
High Low Following a series of restructurings, Hanson now operates as four identifiable August 2006 1.91 1.87 trading regions: North America 48.4% of 2006 continuing turnover, UK 30.3% September 2006 1.91 1.86 of 2006 continuing turnover, Australia and Asia Pacific 14.7% of 2006 continuing turnover, and Continental Europe 6.6% of 2006 continuing turnover.
October 2006 1.91 1.85 November 2006 1.97 1.89 This structure reinforces a continued focus on our core values of cost and December 2006 1.98 1.95 margin control, together with disciplined and proactive growth via capital January 2007 1.98 1.93 expenditure and bolt-on acquisitions.
February 2007 through February 19, 2007 1.97 1.94 North America Business overview Hansons North American operations are organised into two operating groups, Seasonality Aggregates North America and Building Products North America, with a Seasonality is a significant factor affecting all of our operations.
In our major corporate office in Dallas, Texas.
markets in the USA, the UK and northern Continental Europe, activity is very much concentrated during the period between March and November, while the a Aggregates North America winter in Australia and the rainy season and Chinese New Year in Asia Pacific Aggregates North America, headquartered in Dallas, Texas produces cause a material slow-down in operations during these periods.
Unusual aggregates, ready-mixed concrete, asphalt and cement.
weather patterns, in particular heavy and sustained rainfall during peak construction periods, can cause significant delays and have an adverse b Building Products North America impact on our businesses.
Building Products North America, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, is divided into three sub-groups, Pipe & Precast, Brick & Tile and Concrete Paving.
Sources and availability of raw materials Pipe & Precast, also headquartered in Dallas, produces concrete pipes, and We generally own or lease the real estate on which the raw materials, namely products and precast concrete for the US and Canadian markets.
Brick & Tile, aggregates and clay reserves resources, essential to our main businesses are with its headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina, produces bricks for the US found, although in the case of the marine businesses of Aggregates UK and and Canadian markets from its principal manufacturing factories in Canada, Aggregates North America, we operate under licences from the relevant Texas, and the Carolinas, and roof tiles from its plants in Florida, California, national and local authorities.
Concrete Paving has operations in Florida.
We are also a significant purchaser of certain important materials such as UK cement, bitumen, steel, gas, fuel and other energy supplies, the cost of which Hanson reports as two groups in the UK, Aggregates UK and Buildings can fluctuate by material amounts and consequently have an adverse impact Products UK.
We are not generally dependent on any one source for the supply of these products, other than in certain jurisdictions with regard a Aggregates UK to the supply of gas and electricity.
Competitive markets generally exist in Aggregates UK produces aggregates, slag cement, ready-mixed concrete and the jurisdictions in which we operate for the supply of cement, bitumen, steel asphalt in the UK through its own operations and is a partner in a number of jointand fuel.
venture companies, the most significant of which is Midland Quarry Products Limited, owned jointly with a member of the Tarmac group of companies.
Sales and marketing Although sales and marketing activities are more important in connection with Included within Aggregates UK are Hansons marine dredging operations our brick business in both the USA and the UK, where branding of the product which, through a wholly owned subsidiary and United Marine Holdings Limited, is a factor, in general the nature of the majority of our products, ie rock, sand, a joint-venture with a member of the Tarmac group of companies, supply seagravel, ready-mixed concrete, concrete products and slag cement, and the dredged aggregates to the UK, Belgium and Holland.
cost of transportation, means that marketing and selling is conducted on a more localised basis, with an emphasis on service and delivery.
Sales and b Building Products UK marketing costs tend to be relatively low in relation to the overall delivered Building Products UK supplies bricks, blocks, concrete products, concrete price of our products.
flooring, precast concrete and packed aggregates products throughout the UK.
Competitive position Australia and Asia Pacific Statements relating to Hansons position as one of the leading heavy building In Australia, we are a major supplier of construction materials to the Australian materials companies, one of the largest producers of aggregates and one of the market.
Its operations are divided into two operating groups: Construction largest producers of heavy building products are based on management estimates.
Materials, which produces ready-mixed concrete and aggregates: and Building Products, which produces blocks, pavers, retaining walls and precast products.
Governmental regulation including environmental Its other major interests include i its 25% share in Cement Australia Holdings Many products produced by our operating units are subject to government Pty Ltd, jointly owned with Rinker Group Ltd and Holcim Ltd, which operates regulation in various jurisdictions regarding production and sale.
We believe cement plants in New South Wales, Tasmania and Queensland, and ii that our operating units have taken, and continue to take, measures to comply Pioneer Road Services Pty Ltd, jointly owned with Shell Australia Ltd, which with applicable laws and government regulations in the jurisdictions in which operates as an asphalt and contracting business.
we operate so that the risk of sanctions does not represent a material threat to any of the operating units individually or to Hanson as a whole.
We also In Asia Pacific, we operate principally in Malaysia, Hong Kong and Singapore.
believe that compliance with these regulations does not substantially affect the ability of our subsidiaries to compete with similarly situated companies.
Continental Europe In Continental Europe, we operate various aggregates, ready-mixed concrete In addition to the regulatory framework described above, our operating units and asphalt operations in Spain, the Czech Republic, The Netherlands, are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies Belgium, Germany, Austria and Israel.
concerning such matters as planning, environmental and health and safety compliance.
In addition, numerous governmental permits and approvals are Additional information required for our operations.
We believe that our operating units are currently Exchange rates operating in substantial compliance with, or under approved variances from, The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the average noon various national, state and local regulations.
We do not believe that such buying rates in US dollars per 1 to the nearest cent, calculated by using compliance will materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
the average of the exchange rates on the last day of each full calendar month during the period.
biz 129 In the past, our subsidiaries have made significant capital and maintenance Material contracts expenditures to comply with planning, water, air and solid and hazardous For details relating to the Deposit Agreement under which the Hanson ADSs waste regulations and these subsidiaries may be required to do so in the were issued, the indentures under which the groups public bonds were issued future.
From time to time, various agencies may serve cease and desist orders and various agreements and indemnities relating to the demergers, see under or notices of violation on an operating unit or deny its applications for certain the heading Exhibits included in Hanson PLCs 2006 Annual Report and licences or permits, in each case alleging that the practices of the operating Form 20-F filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
unit are not consistent with the regulations or ordinances.
In some cases, the relevant operating unit may seek to meet with the agency to determine mutually In August 1998, an agreement was reached under which, for a one-off premium acceptable methods of modifying or eliminating the practice in question.
We and related transaction costs totalling $275m, insurance cover of $800m believe that our operating units should be able to achieve compliance with after payment by the group of the first $100m of remediation costs arising the applicable regulations and ordinances in a manner which should not have since January 1, 1998 was available to meet the costs of remediating the a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results environmental liabilities relating to the former Koppers company operations of operations.
of Beazer plc Beazer acquired by Hanson in 1991.
The insurance cover is provided by the subsidiaries of two leading reinsurance companies, Centre Approximately, 100 present and former US operating sites, or portions thereof, Solutions a member of the Zurich Group and Swiss Re.
Administration of the currently or previously owned and or leased by current or former companies environmental remediation programme will continue to be carried out by Beazer.
acquired by Hanson responsibility for which remains with a member of the Hanson group are the subject of claims, investigations, monitoring or In April 2005, we entered into a 500m multi-currency revolving credit facility remediation under the US federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, arranged by Barclays Capital and J. P. Morgan plc with a syndicate of banks, Compensation and Liability Act CERCLA, the US federal Resource 470m of which expires in April 2011 and 30m of which expires in April Conservation and Recovery Act or comparable US state statutes or 2010.
This facility contains a $947m swingline advance facility and a sub-limit agreements with third parties.
These proceedings are in various stages ranging of up to 300m for Australian dollar loan note advances.
In addition, in July from initial enquiries to active settlement negotiations to implementation of 2004, we entered into a five year $475m facility arranged by Banc of America response actions.
In addition, a number of present and former Hanson Securities Limited and Citigroup Global Markets Limited with a syndicate of operating units responsibility for which remains with a member of the Hanson banks.
This facility is available to be drawn as either cash advances or standby group have been named as Potentially Responsible Parties PRPs at letters of credit.
approximately 40 off-site landfills under CERCLA or comparable state statutes.
In each of these matters the Hanson operating unit is working with the In August 2006, we entered into an indenture with The Bank of New York governmental agencies involved and other PRPs to address environmental as trustee.
Under the indenture, we can issue an unlimited amount of debt claims in a responsible and appropriate manner.
A substantial majority of these securities.
In August 2006, we issued $750m in aggregate principal amount operating and landfill sites are covered by the environmental insurance policy of notes.
The notes bear interest at the rate of 6.125% per year and will referred to under the heading Material Contracts referred to below.
We do not believe that any of the above proceedings relating to operating Exchange controls sites and off-site landfills not covered by the environmental insurance policy There are no UK restrictions on the import or export of capital including foreign should materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results exchange controls that affect the remittances of dividends or other payments of operations.
At December 31, 2006, we had accrued 171.1m for to non-resident holders of ordinary shares except as otherwise set forth in environmental obligations, including legal and other costs, at such sites as Taxation information for US shareholders below and except for certain are not covered by the above-mentioned environmental insurance policy.
restrictions imposed from time to time by HM Treasury pursuant to legislation Costs associated with environmental assessments and remediation efforts such as The United Nations Act 1946 and the Emergency Laws Act 1964 are accrued when determined to represent a probable loss and to be capable against the government or residents of certain countries.
There can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not differ materially from our estimates.
Except for the general limitations contained in the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and in the Deposit Agreement governing the We cannot predict whether future developments in laws and regulations Companys ADSs, and certain restrictions that may be imposed from time to concerning environmental and health and safety protection will affect our time by HM Treasury under legislation as described above, under English law earnings or cash flow in a materially adverse manner or whether our operating and Hansons Memorandum and Articles of Association, persons who are units will be successful in meeting future demands of regulatory agencies in a neither residents nor nationals of the UK may freely hold, vote and transfer manner which will not materially adversely affect our business, financial ordinary shares in the same manner as UK residents or nationals.
condition or results of operations.
Taxation information for US shareholders For other legal proceedings against Hanson, see note 26 of the Notes to the The following paragraphs are intended as a general guide only and do not accounts.
purport to be a complete technical analysis or listing of all potential tax effects relevant to the ADSs or the ordinary shares.
The statements of US federal tax Patents and trademarks laws set forth below are based on provisions of the US Internal Revenue Our operating units have various patents, registered trademarks, trade names Code of 1986, as amended, current and proposed US Treasury regulations and trade secrets and applications for, or licences in respect of, the same that promulgated there under, and administrative and judicial decisions, all of which relate to various businesses.
We believe that certain of these intellectual property are subject to change, possibly on a retrospective basis.
rights are of material importance to the businesses to which they relate.
We believe that the material patents, trademarks, trade names and trade secrets of This discussion addresses only US shareholders that beneficially own and our operating subsidiaries and divisions are adequately protected and that the hold ADSs or ordinary shares as capital assets and use the US dollar as their expiration of patents and patent licences should not have a material adverse functional currency, and that are either a citizen or resident of the USA for US effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations.
federal income tax purposes, or a corporation, or other entity treated as a corporation for US federal income tax purposes, created or organised under Employees the laws of the USA or any political subdivision thereof, or an estate the As at December 31, 2006, the group employed 25,900 employees, excluding income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its joint-venture and associates.
An analysis of employee numbers by business sources, or a trust, if a court within the USA is able to exercise primary and geographical area is found in note 4 of the Notes to the accounts.
We supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more US persons believe that in general our relationship with our employees and trade unions have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust each a US or other bodies representing our employees is good.
shareholder for the purposes of this discussion.
Property, plant and equipment The discussion does not consider the tax treatment of beneficiaries of trusts As of December 31, 2006, the net book value of property, plant and or estates, partnerships or other pass-through entities or persons who hold equipment is 2,901.5m, predominantly held by the operating divisions.
ordinary shares or ADSs through a partnership or other pass-through entity.
None of the individual properties is considered to have a value that is of major significance in relation to our assets as a whole.
For a description of certain This discussion does not address all aspects of US federal income taxation, environmental issues that may affect our utilisation of our assets, see under the such as US federal gift or estate tax, nor state or local taxation.
It does not heading Governmental regulation including environmental referred to above.
address the tax consequences for financial institutions, financial services entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or foreign currencies, persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, persons owning directly, indirectly or by attribution 5% or more of the total combined voting power of the stock of Hanson, persons carrying on a trade or business in the UK through a permanent establishment, persons who acquired ordinary shares or ADSs as compensation, persons who elect mark-to-market accounting, taxexempt entities or private foundations, persons that hold the ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, hedge, constructive sale or conversion transaction Ancillary information 130 Ancillary information or other integrated transaction, persons whose functional currency is other will be long-term capital gain or loss if the US shareholders holding period than the US dollar, certain expatriates or former long-term residents of the for such ordinary shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
Any such gain or loss USA or holders who elected to apply the provisions of the former income generally will be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax tax convention between the USA and the UK.
Long-term capital gain of a non-corporate US shareholder is generally subject to a maximum tax rate of 15%.
The US shareholders and holders of Hanson ADSs should consult their tax deductibility of a capital loss recognised on the sale or exchange of ordinary advisors with regard to the application of the US federal income tax laws to shares or ADSs is subject to limitations.
their particular situation, as well as any tax consequences arising under the laws of any state, local or foreign taxing jurisdiction.
If the ordinary shares or ADSs are publicly traded, a disposition of such ordinary shares or ADSs will be considered to occur on the trade date, Considerations relevant to the ADSs and ordinary shares regardless of the US shareholders method of accounting.
A US shareholder US shareholders of ADSs are not members of the Company but may instruct that uses the cash method of accounting calculates the US dollar value of the Citibank N. A. the Depositary, as to the exercise of voting rights pertaining to proceeds received on the sale as of the date that the sale settles.
However, a the number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
However, US US shareholder that uses the accrual method of accounting is required to shareholders of ADSs are generally treated as the owners of the underlying calculate the value of the proceeds of the sale as of the trade date and, ordinary shares for purposes of the US-UK double taxation conventions therefore, may realise foreign currency gain or loss, unless such US relating to income and gains the UK-US income tax treaty and to estate and shareholder has elected to use the settlement date to determine its proceeds gift taxes the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, and generally for purposes of of sale for purposes of calculating such foreign currency gain or loss.
In the US federal tax laws.
addition, a US shareholder that receives foreign currency upon the sale or exchange of the ordinary shares or ADSs and converts the foreign currency Taxation of dividends into US dollars subsequent to receipt will have foreign exchange gain or loss A US shareholder will be required to include in gross income as ordinary based on an appreciation or depreciation in the value of the foreign currency income the amount of any dividend paid on the ordinary shares or ADSs on against the US dollar.
Foreign exchange gain or loss will generally be US the date the dividend is received to the extent the dividend is paid out of our source ordinary income or loss.
current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends in excess of these earnings and profits will A US citizen who is resident or in certain circumstance has been resident be applied against, and will reduce, the US shareholders basis in the ADSs within the previous five UK years of assessment for tax or ordinarily resident or ordinary shares and, to the extent in excess of such basis, will be treated as in the UK or a US corporation which is resident in the UK by reason of being gain from the sale or exchange of such ADSs or ordinary shares.
In addition, managed and controlled in the UK or a US citizen who, or US corporation dividends of current or accumulated earnings and profits will be foreign source which, is trading in the UK through a branch or agency and has used, held or passive income for US foreign tax credit purposes and will not qualify for the acquired ADSs or ordinary shares for the purposes of such trade, branch or dividends-received deduction otherwise available to corporations.
agency, may be liable for both UK and US tax on any gain on the disposal of ADSs or ordinary shares.
Subject to certain limitations, such a person will Dividends paid out of current or accumulated earnings in foreign currency to generally be entitled to a tax credit against any US federal tax liability for the a US shareholder will be includable in the income of a US shareholder in a US amount of any UK tax namely, capital gains tax in the case of an individual and dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the date the corporation tax on chargeable gains in the case of a corporation which is paid dividend is received, regardless of whether the dividend is in fact converted in respect of such gain.
into US dollars on such date.
A US shareholder that receives a foreign currency dividend and converts the foreign currency into US dollars US information reporting and backup withholding subsequent to receipt will have foreign exchange gain or loss based on any A US shareholder is generally subject to information reporting requirements appreciation or depreciation in the value of the foreign currency against the with respect to dividends paid in the USA on ADSs or ordinary shares.
In US dollar, which will generally be US source ordinary income or loss.
addition, a US shareholder is subject to backup withholding currently at a rate of 28% on dividends paid in the USA on ADSs or ordinary shares unless An individual US shareholders qualified dividend income is subject to tax at the US shareholder provides an IRS Form W-9 or otherwise establishes an a reduced rate of tax of 15%.
For this purpose, qualified dividend income exemption.
A US shareholder is subject to information reporting and backup includes dividends from foreign corporations if a the stock of such withholding currently at a rate of 28% on proceeds paid from a sale, corporation with respect to which such dividend is paid is readily tradable on exchange, redemption or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares an established securities market in the USA, including NASDAQ, or b such unless the US shareholder provides an IRS Form W-9 or otherwise establishes corporation is eligible for the benefits of a comprehensive tax treaty with the an exemption.
USA that includes an information exchange programme and is determined to be satisfactory to the US Secretary of the Treasury.
The US Secretary of the Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
The amount of any backup Treasury has indicated that the UK-US income tax treaty which came into withholding will be allowed as a credit against a US shareholders US federal effect on March 31, 2003 the Treaty is satisfactory for this purpose.
income tax liability and may entitle such holder to a refund, provided that Dividends will not, however, qualify for the reduced rate if such corporation is certain information is furnished on a timely basis to the IRS.
treated for the tax year in which dividends are paid or in the prior year as a passive foreign investment company for US federal income tax purposes.
Inheritance tax Based on the nature of Hansons operations, Hanson does not believe that it The United Kingdom imposes inheritance tax, broadly, on transfers of capital would be treated as a passive foreign investment company.
Accordingly, if which occur on death and in the preceding seven years.
HM Revenue & Hansons beliefs are correct, dividend distributions with respect to its ordinary Customs is known to consider that the Estate and Gift Tax Convention applies shares or ADSs should be treated as qualified dividend income and subject to to inheritance tax and it is understood that, in practice, both the HM Revenue & the US shareholders satisfaction of the holding period requirements described Customs and the US Internal Revenue Service apply the provisions of the below, should be eligible for the reduced 15% US federal income tax rate.
Estate and Gift Tax Convention to inheritance tax.
On this assumption, an ADS A US shareholder will not be entitled to the reduced rate: a if the US or ordinary share held by an individual who is domiciled in, or a citizen of, the shareholder has not held the ordinary shares or ADSs for at least 61 days of United States and is not a national of or domiciled in the United Kingdom will the 121 day period beginning on the date which is 60 days before the exnot be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a transfer dividend date: or b to the extent the US shareholder is under an obligation of the ADS or ordinary share during the individuals lifetime except in the to make related payments on substantially similar or related property.
Any days exceptional case where the ADS or ordinary share is part of the business during which a US shareholder has diminished its risk of loss on the ordinary property of a UK permanent establishment or an enterprise or pertains to a UK shares or ADSs are not counted towards meeting the 61 day holding period fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent personal required by the statute.
The UK does not currently apply a withholding tax on services.
Special rules apply where an ADS or ordinary share is held in trust.
dividends under its internal laws.
However, if such a withholding tax were The Estate and Gift Tax Convention generally provides a credit for the amount introduced, the UK would be entitled, under the Treaty, in certain of any tax paid in the United Kingdom against the US federal tax liability or for circumstances to impose a withholding tax at a rate of up to 15% on dividends tax paid in the USA to be credited against the United Kingdom liability paid to a US shareholder.
Subject to applicable limitations, a US shareholder according to rules set out in the Convention in a case where the ADS or who was subject to any such withholding should be entitled to claim a ordinary share is subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or deduction for withheld tax or, subject to the holding period requirements estate tax.
mentioned below, a credit for such withholding tax against such holders US federal income tax liability.
The US foreign tax credit limitation may be reduced Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax to the extent that dividends are eligible for the reduced rate described above.
Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable at the rate of 1.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5, on any instrument transferring ordinary shares Taxation of capital gains to the Custodian of the Depositary on the value of such ordinary shares.
In Upon a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs, a US shareholder accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any tax or duty payable will recognise gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes in an amount by the Depositary or the Custodian of the Depositary on future deposits of equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and ordinary shares may be charged by the Depositary to the party to whom ADRs the US shareholders tax basis determined in US dollars in such ordinary are delivered against such deposits.
Generally, such gain or loss will be capital gain or loss and Hanson 2006 www.
biz 131 No UK stamp duty will be payable on any transfer of an ADR evidencing an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer is executed and retained at all times outside the UK and is not required to be admitted in evidence in any proceedings in the United Kingdom.
A transfer of an ADR evidencing an ADS in the United Kingdom could attract stamp duty at a rate of 0.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5.
Any transfer which will include a transfer from the Depositary to an ADS holder of the underlying ordinary shares could result in a stamp duty liability at the rate of 0.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5.
On a transfer from a nominee to the beneficial owner the nominee having at all times held the ordinary shares on behalf of the beneficial owner under which no beneficial interest passes and which is neither a sale nor arises under a contract of sale nor is in contemplation of sale, a fixed 5 stamp duty will be payable.
The amount of stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax payable is generally calculated at the applicable rate on the purchase price of the ordinary shares.
Stamp duty reserve tax at a rate of 0.5% will be payable on any agreement to transfer ordinary shares or any interest therein unless an instrument transferring the ordinary shares is executed and stamp duty at a rate of 0.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5 has been paid.
Stamp duty reserve tax will not be payable on any agreement to transfer ADRs representing ADSs.
Incorporation of the Company Hanson PLC is a public limited company incorporated on December 31, 2002 in England and Wales No.
Memorandum and Articles of Association The Companys Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association is included as Exhibit 1.1 to Hanson PLCs 2005 Annual Report and Form 20-F filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is incorporated herein by reference.
A summary description of certain provisions of the Deposit Agreement relating to the Companys ADSs was included in the Report on Form 6-K dated November 11, 2003 which was filed with the SEC.
The information set forth in the Report on Form 6-K dated November 11, 2003 which was incorporated by reference in certain Registration Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
Registered office 1 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7JH Telephone 44 0 20 7245 1245 Documents on display Hanson furnishes annual and special reports and other information with the SEC.
These documents may be read and copied at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100F Street, N. E. Washington, D. C. 20549-7010.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
Filings with the SEC are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and on the website maintained by the SEC at www.
