com Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the nineteenth Annual Resolution No 11 General Meeting of Hays plc will be held at Grocers Hall, Special Resolution Princes Street, London EC2R 8AD at 12 noon on Wednesday, THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and 15 November 2006, for the following purposes: unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Companies Act Ordinary Business 1985 as amended of Ordinary shares of 1p each in the Resolution No 1 capital of the Company Ordinary shares provided that: To receive and adopt the Accounts for the year ended a the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby 30 June 2006 and the reports of the Directors and authorised to be purchased is 219,196,666: Auditors thereon.
b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which Resolution No 2 may be paid for each Ordinary share is 1p: To declare a final dividend of 2.90 pence for the year ended 30 June 2006 which, if approved, will be paid c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may on 21 November 2006 to shareholders on the register be paid for each Ordinary share is an amount not more at the close of business on 20 October 2006. than: i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share as derived from the Resolution No 3 Daily Ofcial List of the UK Listing Authority for the five To approve the Boards report on remuneration for the year business days immediately preceding the day on which ended 30 June 2006. the Ordinary share is purchased: or ii the higher of the To re-appoint the following Director who, having been appointed price of the last independent trade of an Ordinary share since the last Annual General Meeting, will retire in accordance and the current independent bid for an Ordinary share with the Companys Articles of Association and, being eligible, on the London Stock Exchange: and offers himself for re-appointment: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the Resolution No 4 conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Mr P Venables Company or 31 December 2007, whichever is earlier except in relation to the purchase of Ordinary shares To re-elect the following Directors who retire from the Board the contract for which was concluded before such date by rotation: and which would or might be executed wholly or partly Resolution No 5 after such date, unless such authority is renewed prior Mrs L M S Knox to such time.
Resolution No 6 Resolution No 12 Mr D R Waxman Ordinary Resolution THAT the Hays International Sharesave Scheme Biographical details for the current Directors are shown the International Scheme, the main features of which on page 21. are summarised in the explanatory notes to the Notice of Resolution No 7 Annual General Meeting and the rules of which are produced To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors of the Company to the meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purpose until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
of identication, be and is hereby renewed and extended and the Directors be and are hereby authorised to do all such acts Resolution No 8 and things as they may consider necessary or expedient to To authorise the Directors to agree the remuneration carry the International Scheme into effect.
of the Auditors of the Company.
Words and expressions dened in or for the purposes of Special Business the Companies Act 1985 as amended shall bear the same Resolution No 9 meaning herein.
Ordinary Resolution 141 Moorgate THAT the authority conferred on the Directors by Article 12 London of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed for EC2M 6TX a period expiring at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which By order of the Board this resolution is passed and for that period the section 80 amount shall be 4,871,037.
Resolution No 10 A R Yapp Special Resolution Company Secretary THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 9 above the power 13 October 2006 conferred on the Directors by Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed for a period expiring at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed and for that period the section 89 amount shall be 730,655.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association, this power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of the Companies Act 1985.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 73 Hays plc Notes 7 The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, species that only those members entered in the register 1 A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint one or more of members of the Company at the close of business at 12 noon on proxies to attend and on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need 13 November 2006, or, if this Annual General Meeting is adjourned, in the not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed which you register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned Annual are invited to complete and return not less than 48 hours before the time General Meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General appointed for holding the Annual General Meeting, or any adjournment Meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their thereof.
Completion and return of the proxy form in accordance with the name at that time.
Changes to the entries in the register of members after instructions thereon will not prevent you from attending and voting at the 12 noon on 13 November 2006 or, if this Annual General Meeting is Annual General Meeting, instead of your proxy, if you wish to do so.
Those adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of any attending the Annual General Meeting should bring with them the adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of attendance card attached to the form of proxy.
any person to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting.
2 The register of interests of Directors and their families together with copies of the Directors service contracts and non-executive Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company on weekdays Saturdays and public holidays excepted during usual business hours from the date of this Notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will, on the day of the Annual General Meeting, be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 11.45am until the conclusion of the meeting.
3 On 27 September 2006, the latest date practical before the publication of this Notice, there had been: i.
No movements since 4 September 2006 in either the beneficial or non-beneficial holdings of the Directors, apart from minor movements in the Hays plc Employee Share Trust and the Hays plc Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust as detailed in the Directors Report on page 22. ii.
No movements since 4 September 2006 in the information disclosed to the Company, detailed in the Directors Report on page 22, in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 disclosure of certain major interests in the share capital of a company.
4 The proposed amended rules of the International Scheme will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company on weekdays Saturdays and public holidays excepted during business hours from the date of this Notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will, on the day of the Annual General Meeting, be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 11.45am until the conclusion of the meeting.
5 Mr D R Waxman has a service contract which at the date of the Annual General Meeting will have a period of four months unexpired.
Mr P Venables contract has a notice period of one year unexpired.
Mrs L M S Knox does not have a service contract with the Company.
6 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 November 2006 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
