com Special business at the Annual General Meeting The Notice of the Annual General Meeting on page 72 sets out No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held in treasury the following special business resolutions 9, 10, 11 and 12. and no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
On 4 September 2006, being the latest practicable date Allotment of shares prior to the publication of the document, the Company had Resolution 9 authorises the Directors to allot Ordinary shares 23,779,055 options outstanding under its various share of the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of schemes as detailed in note 27.
This represented 1.63% 4,871,037 being approximately one third of the Companys of issued share capital of the Company excluding the issued share capital, excluding the 102,785,458 Ordinary 102,785,458 Ordinary shares held in treasury at that date.
shares being 6.57% of the Companys issued share capital held in treasury as at 4 September 2006, being the latest Resolution 11 renews the Companys general authority to practicable date prior to the publication of the document.
repurchase up to 219,196,666 of its own shares in the market This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual being less than 15% of the Companys issued share capital, General Meeting.
The Directors have no present intention excluding the 102,785,458 Ordinary shares being 6.57% of using this authority.
of the Companys issued share capital held in treasury as at 4 September 2006, being the latest practicable date prior Resolution 10 empowers the Directors to allot Ordinary shares to the publication of the document, at or between the of the Company including Ordinary shares held in treasury as maximum and minimum prices specified in the resolution if the pre-emption provisions of Section 89 of the Companies giving the authority.
Act 1985 did not apply, provided that such power of the Directors is limited to the allotment of Ordinary shares up to International Sharesave Scheme an aggregate nominal amount of 730,655, being 5% of the Resolution 12 seeks shareholder approval for the renewal Companys issued share capital, excluding the 102,785,458 and extension of the Hays International Sharesave Scheme Ordinary shares being 6.57% of the Companys issued share the International Scheme.
The International Scheme was capital held in treasury as at 4 September 2006, being the approved by shareholders in 1999 for a five year period.
It is latest practicable date prior to the publication of the document, proposed to extend the life of the International Scheme until other than the allotment of Ordinary shares pursuant to a 15 November 2009, so that the next renewal date coincides rights issue.
This power will expire at the conclusion of the with the renewal date for the UK Sharesave Scheme, which next Annual General Meeting.
was approved in 1999 for a ten year period.
The approval These two resolutions comply with the guidelines issued by of this extension will also have the effect of ratifying options the various investor protection committees.
granted under the International Scheme in 2004.
The following paragraphs summarise the main features of the International Authority to purchase own shares Scheme in the form in which it will be renewed.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on Non-UK resident employees including any full-time executive 3 November 2005, shareholders gave the Company permission, directors of participating members of the Hays Group who until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held have the requisite period of qualifying service with a Group on 15 November 2006, to purchase up to 238,940,543 Company may apply for options under the International Ordinary shares of the Company.
Scheme whenever it is operated.
The Board may permit other The Board has indicated its intention to continue to return employees to participate and may amend the period of surplus cash to shareholders where it is not required to finance qualifying service but not so as to exceed five years.
the organic expansion of the business, acquisitions and Invitations to participate in the International Scheme dividend payments, via the on-market purchase of its own may normally only be issued within six weeks after the shares.
Shares will only be purchased if to do so would result announcement of Hays results for any period, or any day in an increase in earnings per share and is in the best interest on which the Board determines that exceptional circumstances of shareholders generally.
In 2006, options may be granted within six During the period from 30 June 2005 to 30 June 2006, weeks of the Annual General Meeting approving the renewal the Company purchased 167,071,044 Ordinary shares of 1p of the International Scheme, pursuant to an invitation issued at a weighted average price, including transaction costs, of during October 2006.
Including transaction costs, the total aggregate Options may be satisfied by way of an issue of new Ordinary consideration was 215,197,292.
The percentage of issued shares in the Company Shares, a transfer of treasury shares, capital purchased was 10.68%.
or a transfer of existing shares acquired on the market by an The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares employee trust or other vehicle.
Regulations 2003 the Regulations allow companies to hold No option may be granted under the International Scheme shares acquired by way of market purchase in treasury, rather or under any other employee share scheme established by than having to cancel them.
The Directors may use the the Company which would, at the time of grant, cause the authority to purchase shares and hold them in treasury and number of Shares which have been or may be issued in subsequently sell or transfer them out of treasury as permitted pursuance of options or awards granted under all employee in accordance with the Regulations rather than cancel them, share schemes established by the Company to exceed either subject to institutional guidelines applicable at the time.
The of the following limits: shares purchased by the Company in the period were initially held in treasury, before 171,794,556 including some of those i 10% of the Companys ordinary share capital or 5% purchased in the prior year were cancelled.
of such capital if only options or awards granted under executive schemes are taken into account in relation to options or awards granted in the 10 years ending with the date of grant: and ii 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital in relation to options or awards granted in the five years ending with the date of grant.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 75 Hays plc For the purposes of the limits set out above, i treasury shares The provisions governing eligibility requirements, equity dilution, transferred, as well as any new Shares issued to any employee share utilisation and individual participation limits and the benefit trust, for the purpose of satisfying options or awards adjustments that may be made following a rights issue or any will count, and ii existing shares purchased on the market other variation of capital cannot be altered to the advantage and transferred to participants in satisfaction of options will of eligible employees or option holders without the prior not count.
approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration The exercise price of options may not be less than 80% of of the International Scheme, to take account of a change the middle market quotation of a Share derived from the in legislation or developments in the law affecting the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List on the dealing day International Scheme or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, immediately before the date of invitation or, in the case of any exchange control or regulatory treatment, for participants in option under which Shares are to be issued, the nominal value the International Scheme or for any member of the Group.
No options may be granted under the International Scheme At the time of receiving options, participants must enter into after 15 November 2009, or at such earlier time as the Board a savings contract designated by the Board under which may determine, but the rights of existing option holders will not they agree to make monthly contributions, of up to the local thereby be affected.
In the event of termination no further equivalent of 250 or any higher amount permitted by options will be granted.
legislation governing the UK Sharesave Scheme, from their pay.
The number of Shares over which a participant is granted The rules of the International Scheme permit the Board to an option will be the number that are anticipated to be adopt Appendices setting out specic requirements in relation acquired, at the exercise price, with the savings made plus to particular countries if that is necessary or desirable to take if applicable interest payable on the savings contract.
account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in However, as the exercise price will be in sterling and the the relevant countries.
In countries where there are legal or number of Shares under option pre-set at the time of grant, practical difficulties in providing Shares to employees, an participants will be permitted to top-up their savings contract Appendix may permit a participant to receive, on completion in the event that the maturity value of their savings is of his savings contract, a cash amount equivalent to the profit insufficient to allow the full number of Shares under option that he would have made on exercise of an option.
If the maturity value of the savings contract is higher than the total exercise price of the Shares under option, the excess cannot be used to acquire additional Shares, but will be returned to the participant.
Options may normally only be exercised during the six month period following the maturity date of the related savings contract.
This may be after the third, fourth, fifth or seventh anniversary of the start date of the related savings contract.
In certain circumstances, early exercise of options is permitted in respect of the number of Shares that may be acquired using the proceeds of the partially completed savings contract.
Examples are where a participant leaves employment with the Hays Group in circumstances of death, injury, disability or redundancy within the meaning of the UK Employment Rights Act 1996, or in the case of five or seven year options on leaving employment for any reason other than dismissal for cause following the third anniversary of an options grant.
Options are also exercisable early where the participant reaches age 60 irrespective of leaving employment, or where Hays is taken over or reorganised.
If a participant leaves employment with the Hays Group other than in such circumstances his option will lapse.
In the event of any capitalisation issue, rights issue, subdivision, consolidation or reduction of Hays share capital, the number of Shares under option and or the exercise price may be adjusted by the Board where the auditors confirm in writing that the adjustment is, in their opinion, fair and reasonable.
Options are not transferable and may only be exercised by the persons to whom they were granted or their personal representatives.
Shares allotted or transferred under the International Scheme will rank pari passu with shares of the same class then in issue except in respect of entitlements arising prior to the date of allotment.
Hays will apply to the UKLA for the listing of, and to the London Stock Exchange for admission to trading of, any newly issued Shares.
