Annual Report and Accounts 2006 71 Hays plc Independent Auditors Report on Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members Basis of audit opinion of Hays plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have audited the individual Company financial statements Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing of Hays plc for the year ended 30 June 2006 which comprise Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test the balance sheet, the statement of accounting policies and basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the related notes 1 to 16.
These individual Company financial the individual Company financial statements.
It also includes statements have been prepared under the accounting policies an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements set out therein.
made by the Directors in the preparation of the individual Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting The corporate governance statement and the Directors policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, remuneration report are included in the Group annual report consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
of Hays plc for the year ended 30 June 2006.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Hays plc for the year ended 30 June 2006 and on the the information and explanations which we considered information in the Directors remuneration report that is necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence described as having been audited.
to give reasonable assurance that the individual Company financial statements are free from material misstatement, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might of the presentation of information in the individual Company state to the Companys members those matters we are financial statements.
required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Opinion not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the In our opinion: Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Respective responsibilities of directors Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys and auditors affairs as at 30 June 2006: The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report the individual Company financial statements have been and the individual Company financial statements in accordance properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards 1985: and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the individual Company financial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal Deloitte & Touche LLP and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Auditing UK and Ireland.
London We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual 4 September 2006 Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, and whether the individual Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the individual Company financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the individual Company financial statements.
