Headlam Group plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and state whether they have been prepared in accordance with the group and parent company financial statements in IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and accordance with applicable law and regulations.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that parent company will continue in business.
law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the statements on the same basis.
financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies The group and parent company financial statements are required Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the financial position of the group and the parent company and the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that In preparing each of the group and parent company financial comply with that law and those regulations.
statements, the directors are required to: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the corporate and financial information included on the consistently: company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and from legislation in other jurisdictions.
