The information relating to the years 2002 to 2003 has not been restated for IFRS.
Headlam Group plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Headlam Group plc will be held at the groups distribution facility located at Gorsey Lane, Coleshill, Birmingham, B46 1LW on Friday 25 May 2007 at 10.00 a. m. for the following purposes.
As ordinary business 1 To receive, consider and adopt the report of the directors and the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006, together with the auditors report.
2 To declare a final dividend of 15.3 pence per ordinary share for the financial year ended 31 December 2006.
3 To re-elect as a director Graham Waldron who retires in accordance with the Articles of Association and is eligible for re-election.
4 To re-elect as a director Steve Wilson who retires in accordance with the Articles of Association and is eligible for re-election.
5 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company until the conclusion of the next AGM.
6 To authorise the directors to agree the remuneration of the independent auditors of the company.
7 That the Remuneration Report set out on pages 35 to 40 of the Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006 be approved.
As special business As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, which will be proposed as to resolution 8 as an Ordinary Resolution and as to resolutions 9 and 10 as Special Resolutions: 8 That, subject to and in accordance with Article 18 of the Articles of Association of the company, the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act in substitution for any existing authority to allot relevant securities to exercise all the powers of the company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 of the Act up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,035,000, provided that such authority shall expire on 25 August 2008, or such earlier time as this authority shall next be revoked or varied by the company in general meeting, but so that the company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry, and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
A Accounts ccounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 103 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 9 That, subject to the passing of resolution 8 as set out in the notice of this meeting, the directors be empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act in substitution for any existing authority to allot equity securities to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to the general authority conferred by resolution 8 as set out in the notice of this meeting and to sell relevant shares as defined in section 94 of the Act held by the company as treasury shares as defined in section 162A of the Act for cash, as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to allotments of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares: a in connection with or pursuant to an offer by way of rights, open offer or other pre-emptive offer to the holders of shares in the company and other persons entitled to participate therein in proportion as nearly as practicable to their respective holdings, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the regulations or requirements of any regulatory authority or any stock exchange in any territory: and b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 217,775: and such power shall expire on 25 August 2008, or such earlier time as this authority shall next be revoked or varied by the company in general meeting, but so that the company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold after such expiry, and the directors may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
10 That the company be generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to Article 12.2 of the Articles of Association of the company and pursuant to section 166 of the Act, in substitution of any existing authority to make market purchases to make market purchases as defined in section 163 of the Act of up to 13,066,500 ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the company Ordinary Shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors of the company may from time to time determine, provided that: a the amount paid for each Ordinary Share exclusive of expenses shall not be more than five per cent above the average of the middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from the Daily Official List of London Stock Exchange plc for the five business days before the date on which the contract for the purchase is made and, in any event, not less than 5p per Ordinary Share: and b the authority herein contained shall expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the company to be held in 2008 or on 25 August 2008, whichever is earlier, provided that the company may, before such expiry, make a contract to purchase its own shares which would or might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, and the company may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of such contract as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
By order of the board Geoff Duggan Company Secretary 20 March 2007 Headlam Group plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 1 Any member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint one or more proxies who need not be a member of the company to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of the member.
A form of proxy for use by members at the meeting is enclosed.
Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting in person, should he subsequently decide to do so.
2 In order to be valid, any form of proxy and power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed, or a notarially certified or office copy of such power or authority must reach the address stated on the proxy card, Proxy Processing Centre, Telford Road, Bicester, OX26 4LD, not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
3 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting to be held on 25 May 2007 and any adjournment s thereof by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RAIO by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 2 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
4 As permitted by Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, shareholders who hold shares in uncertificated form must be entered on the companys share register at 6.00p.
m. on 23 May 2007 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, 6.00p.
m. on the date two days before the date of any adjourned meeting, in order to be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM.
Such shareholders may only cast votes in respect of shares held at such time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
A Accounts ccounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 105 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 5 Copies of the directors service contracts and, where appropriate, letters of appointment, a summary of the directors transactions in the companys shares during the year and written terms of reference for each of the remuneration, audit and nomination committees will be available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the close of business on the business day preceding the AGM and will also be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and throughout the meeting.
There are no service agreements between any director and any subsidiary of the company.
6 Biographical details of each director who is being proposed for re-appointment or re-election by shareholders, including their membership of board committees, are set out in the annual report and accounts posted to shareholders at the same time as this notice.
7 Should any shareholder with special needs wish to attend the meeting, please contact the company so that appropriate arrangements can be made.
8 Persons who are not Headlam Group plc shareholders will not be admitted to the meeting unless prior arrangements are made with the company.
Investors holding Headlam Group plc shares through nominees including PEPSs and ISAs are welcome to attend please contact your investment manager or bring proof of your holdings with you to the meeting.
Headlam Group plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Shareholder helpline Headlams shareholder register is maintained by Capita Registrars Capita, who are responsible for making dividend payments and updating the register, including details of changes to shareholders addresses and purchases or sales of Headlam shares.
If you have a question about your shareholding in Headlam you should contact: Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, HD8 0LA, telephone 44 0 870 1623131, email: shareholder.
com Frequent shareholder enquiries If you change your address Please notify Capita in writing.
If shares are held in joint names, the notification must be signed by the first-named shareholder.
If you change your name Please notify Capita in writing and enclose a copy of any marriage certificate or change of name deed as evidence.
Lost Headlam share certificate If your share certificate is lost or stolen, you should call Capita immediately.
A letter of indemnity will be sent to you to sign.
Capita will charge for this service.
Duplicate shareholder accounts If you receive more than one copy of Headlam communications you may have your shares registered inadvertently in at least two accounts.
This happens when the registration details of separate transactions differ slightly.
If you wish to consolidate such multiple accounts, call Capita to request the accounts are consolidated.
Buying and selling shares in the UK If you wish to trade in Headlam shares, you can do so at Capitas website, www.
com or alternatively use a stockbroker or high street bank which trades on the London Stock Exchange.
There are many telephone and online services available.
If you are selling, you will need to present your share certificate at the time of sale.
Transferring Headlam shares Transferring shares to someone else requires the completion of a stock transfer form.
This form, and details of the procedure you need to follow, is available from Capita website.
Stamp duty is not normally payable if the transfer is to a relative or if there is no money being paid in exchange for the shares.
Share prices information Shareholders can find share prices listed in most national newspapers.
Ceefax and Teletext pages also display share prices that are updated regularly throughout the trading day.
For a real-time buying or selling price, you should contact a stockbroker.
Additionally there is a link to the London Stock Exchange on the Headlam website.
The Headlam website The Headlam website at www.
com provides news and details of the companys activities, plus information on the share price.
The investor information section of the website contains up-to-date information for shareholders including the companys latest results and key dates such as dividend payment dates.
ShareGift ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is a free service for shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes.
It may be especially useful for those who wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares which would cost more to sell than they are worth.
There are no capital gains tax implications i. e. no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief.
Further information can be obtained at www.
org The Unclaimed Assets Register The Unclaimed Assets Register is a unique search service that helps individuals to find their lost assets and re-establish contact with financial institutions.
It has a database of unclaimed life policies, pensions, unit trust holdings, and share dividends drawn from many companies and can search for lost assets and entitlements.
The Unclaimed Assets Register charges a small fixed fee for each search, 10% of which goes to charity.
For further information, visit www.
co. uk Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.
co. uk Registered office Headlam Group plc PO Box 1 Gorsey Lane Coleshill Birmingham B46 1LW Website www.
com Registration Registered in England and Wales Number 460129
