Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 43 Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors statements of responsibility in relation to the The Directors confirm that the financial statements comply with consolidated financial statements: these requirements.
The Directors are required by law to prepare consolidated The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting financial statements of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC and its records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time subsidiaries together the Group in accordance with the the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets, Companies Act 1985, International Financial Reporting for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of Standards and Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
fraud and irregularities and the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report requirements of the Companies Act 1985. and the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity International Accounting Standard 1 requires that the financial of the Companys website where the Groups Annual Report statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups and accounts are available.
Information published on the financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
internet is accessible in many countries where legal requirements This requires the faithful representation of the effects of may differ from the United Kingdoms legislation relating to the transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance.
