42 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Accounting policies Authorisation of financial statements Revenue and statement of compliance with IFRS Revenue represents the value of goods supplied, less discounts The Group and Company financial statements of HMV Group plc given, and is recognised when goods are delivered and title for the period ended 29 April 2006 were authorised for issue by has passed.
It also includes commission earned on ticket sales the Board on 5 July 2006 and the balance sheets were signed on and similar activities.
Revenue excludes value added tax VAT the Boards behalf by Alan Giles and Neil Bright.
HMV Group plc and similar sales-related taxes.
is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference England and Wales.
The Companys Ordinary Shares are traded to the principal outstanding and the applicable effective on the London Stock Exchange.
Dividend income is recognised when the right The financial statements of the Group and the Company to receive payment is established.
Rental income from sub-let have been prepared in accordance with International Financial properties is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union of the sublease.
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
Foreign currencies The Company has taken advantage of the exemption Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transactions.
publish its individual income statement and related notes.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into Sterling at period end rates.
Basis of preparation The resulting foreign exchange differences are dealt with in The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its the determination of profit loss for the period.
subsidiaries are made up to the Saturday on or immediately On consolidation, average exchange rates are used to preceding 30 April each year.
Consequently, the financial translate the results of overseas companies and businesses, statements for the current period cover the 52 weeks ended and the assets and liabilities of overseas companies and 29 April 2006, whilst the comparative period covered the businesses are translated into Sterling at period-end rates.
The financial statements are Differences on translation are recognised as a separate equity prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards reserve.
On disposal of an overseas company or business, the and specically in accordance with the accounting policies set cumulative exchange differences for that entity are recognised out below.
The financial statements are presented in Pounds in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Sterling and are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million except where otherwise indicated.
Exceptional items The consolidated financial statements for the 52 weeks The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the ended 29 April 2006 are the first to be prepared under IFRS income statement, those material items of income and expense as adopted by the European Union.
Consequently a number which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the of the accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow financial statements are different to those adopted in the annual shareholders to better understand the elements of financial financial statements for the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2005 performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior which were prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting periods and to better assess trends in financial performance.
Details of the changes in accounting policies arising Goodwill from the adoption of IFRS, together with the restated financial The Group has utilised the exemption available in IFRS 1 information for the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2005 were whereby IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied published on 28 September 2005 and the reconciliations retrospectively to past business combinations.
Goodwill to IFRS from the previously published UK GAAP financial arising on acquisitions prior to 25 April 1998 was set off statements are detailed in Note 34. directly against reserves.
This goodwill has not been reinstated With the exception of financial instruments, the accounting on the balance sheet on the transition to IFRS.
Furthermore, policies set out below have been consistently applied to all it will not be transferred to the income statement if the periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
subsidiary is disposed of or if the investment in the subsidiary However in accordance with IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of becomes impaired.
International Financial Reporting Standards, the Group has Positive goodwill arising since 25 April 1998 is capitalised elected not to restate comparative information for the impact and classied as an asset on the balance sheet.
On transition to of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation IFRS, this goodwill was frozen at its carrying value on the date and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
of transition, 25 April 2004, subject to impairment testing at that The opening balance sheet at 1 May 2005 has been adjusted date.
Positive goodwill arising on acquisitions since the Groups to reect the adoption of these standards from that date and transition to IFRS is also capitalised and classied as an asset details of these adjustments are set out in Note 34. on the balance sheet.
All capitalised goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in Basis of consolidation circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
All intra-group Property, plant and equipment transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated The capitalised cost of property, plant and equipment includes on consolidation.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or only those costs that are directly attributable to bringing an disposed of during a period are included from the date that asset to its working condition for its intended use.
effective control passed or up to the effective date of disposal, Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is as appropriate.
calculated on cost, at rates estimated to write off the cost, less the estimated residual value, of the relevant assets by Investments in subsidiaries equal annual amounts over their estimated useful lives.
In its separate financial statements, the Company recognises its The annual rates used are: investments in subsidiaries at cost.
Income is recognised from Leasehold improvements Period of the lease these investments only in relation to distributions received 1 Plant, equipment and vehicles 10 to 33 3% from post-acquisition profits.
Distributions received in excess of post-acquisition profits are deducted from the cost of The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are the investment.
reviewed for material impairment in periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Annual report and accounts 2006 HMV Group plc 43 Leased assets Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for temporary In respect of property operating leases, benets received and differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and receivable as an incentive to sign a lease, such as rent-free branches, as the Group has determined that undistributed periods, premiums payable and capital contributions, are profits will not be distributed in the foreseeable future.
spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
All other Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured operating lease payments are charged directly to the income at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
asset is realised or the liability settled, based on tax rates and The Group has a number of lease agreements in which the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the rent payable is contingent on revenue.
balance sheet date, and is not discounted.
Taxation is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates Intangible assets to items that are themselves charged or credited directly to Intangible assets are valued at cost and amortised over their equity, otherwise it is recognised in the income statement.
useful life unless the asset can be demonstrated to have an Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, indefinite life.
Intangible assets with nite lives are reviewed for if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets impairment if there is any indication that the carrying value may against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate not be recoverable.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
life are tested for impairment annually.
Cash and cash equivalents Impairment of assets Cash and short-term deposits comprise cash at bank and in The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there are hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three indicators that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indicator months or less.
For the purposes of the cash o f w statement, exists, or when annual impairment testing is required, the cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount, deposits less bank overdrafts that are payable on demand.
being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash ows Interest bearing loans and borrowings expected to be derived from the asset.
Where the asset does Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective the asset belongs is estimated.
Where the carrying amount of interest rate method.
an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Provisions If there is an indication at the reporting date that A provision is recognised when the Group has a legal or previously recognised impairment losses no longer exist or may constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is have decreased, the recoverable amount is again estimated.
probable that an outow of economic benets will be required To the extent that the recoverable amount has increased, to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, expected future the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
cash ows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that An impairment loss in respect of goodwll is not reversed.
reects the risks specic to the liability.
Inventories Pension costs Inventories, which represent nished goods and goods The Group operates both dened benefit and dened for resale, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable contribution pension schemes, the funds of which are held value on a first-in, first-out basis.
Net realisable value is based in separate trustee administered funds.
on estimated selling prices less further costs to be incurred The cost of providing benets under the dened benefit to disposal.
scheme is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance Taxation sheet date.
The net retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the liabilities Current tax of the dened benefit scheme as reduced by the market value Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior of the dened benefit scheme assets.
periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the from, or paid, to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and period in which they occur.
The Group has adopted the laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benets Actuarial gains and sheet date.
losses, group plans and disclosures and accordingly actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity and are Deferred tax presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences Other income and expenses associated with the dened benefit at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets scheme are recognised in the income statement.
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial The dened benefit scheme provides benets to a reporting purposes.
There is no agreement or policy Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all for allocating a share of the dened benefit obligation to temporary differences and deferred income tax assets are each participating entity.
Consequently, in accordance with recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benets the Company, will be available against which the deductible temporary as sponsoring employer of the dened benefit scheme, differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred recognises the net pension obligation for the scheme.
income tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and The other participating members of the scheme account for reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient their relevant pension costs on a dened contribution basis.
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred For the dened contribution scheme, contributions are income tax asset to be utilised.
charged in the income statement as they become payable in Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the accordance with the rules of the scheme.
temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
44 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Accounting policies continued Share-based payments Available-for-sale financial assets The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees granted Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative on or after 7 November 2002, which had not vested by 1 January financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale.
2005, is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over measured at fair value with temporary gains or losses being the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the recognised within equity until the investment is sold or is relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain value is determined by using an appropriate pricing model.
or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative statement.
The fair value of investments that are actively traded expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the in organised financial markets is determined by reference vesting period has expired and managements best estimate to quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the of the achievement or otherwise of non-market performance balance sheet date.
conditions and hence the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since New accounting standards the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income The Group has not adopted early the requirements of statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which will become is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
mandatory with effect from 1 January 2007.
The new disclosures will therefore be adopted in the Groups financial statements Derivative financial instruments for the period ending 26 April 2008.
The Group may from time to time use derivative financial instruments for hedging purposes, including cross-currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency options and interest rate contracts.
The Group does not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options is their quoted market value at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates.
Hedge accounting Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ows are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
For these cash ow hedges, when the asset or liability for the hedged transaction is recognised in the balance sheet, the associated gains or losses on the hedging instrument previously recognised in equity are included in the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability.
Gains or losses realised on cash ow hedges are therefore recognised in the income statement in the same period as the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualies for hedge accounting.
At that time any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument previously recognised in equity is retained in equity until the hedged transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is then transferred to the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedges of a net investment Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net investment, are accounted for in a similar way to cash ow hedges.
Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised directly in equity, whilst any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in profit or loss.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses recognised directly in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
