Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Directors are also required to: and the financial statements.
The directors are required to properly select and apply accounting policies: prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with present information, including accounting policies, in a International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have also manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in understandable information: and accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the directors to provide additional disclosures when compliance with the prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the speci c requirements in IFRS is insuf cient to enable users Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial financial performance.
statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the other events and conditions in accordance with the fide nitions financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial report and directors remuneration report which comply with the Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation requirements of the Companies Act 1985. will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent of Homeserve plc permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone We have audited the Group financial statements of Homeserve plc other than the company and the companys members as a body, for for the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise the Group income our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
statement, the Group statement of recognised income and expense, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash ow statement, the related Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors notes 1 to 41 and note 57.
These Group financial statements have The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have directors remuneration report and the Group financial statements in also audited the information in the directors remuneration report that accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting is described as having been audited.
Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
We have reported separately on the individual Company financial statements of Homeserve plc for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys and Ireland.
members those matters we are required to state to them in an Report & Accounts 62
