Notes to the Accounts year ended 31 March 2006 1.
General information Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Homeserve plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom statements of the Company and entities controlled by the under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered Company made up to 31 March each year.
Control is achieved of ce is given on page 42.
The nature of the Groups operations where the Company has the power to govern the financial and and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and in the Chief operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain bene ts Executives Review on pages 6 to 22. from its activities.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities because that is the currency of the primary economic of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of environment in which the Group operates.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2. values of the identi able net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Signifi cant accounting policies The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the Basis of accounting effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with as appropriate.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs for the first time.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial from UK GAAP to IFRSs are given in note 57. statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, adopted for use in the European Union and therefore All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
There are no eliminated on consolidation.
adjustments required to these financial statements in respect of standards that have been issued but not yet enacted.
In addition, at Investments in joint ventures this time standards that have been issued but not yet enacted are The Groups share of results of joint ventures is included in the not expected to have an impact on the Group.
consolidated income statement using the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of their net assets is included in the The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost consolidated balance sheet, including associated goodwill.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
