Notes to the Accounts year ended 31 March 2006 1.
General information Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Homeserve plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom statements of the Company and entities controlled by the under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered Company made up to 31 March each year.
Control is achieved of ce is given on page 42.
The nature of the Groups operations where the Company has the power to govern the financial and and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and in the Chief operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain bene ts Executives Review on pages 6 to 22. from its activities.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities because that is the currency of the primary economic of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of environment in which the Group operates.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2. values of the identi able net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Signifi cant accounting policies The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the Basis of accounting effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with as appropriate.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs for the first time.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial from UK GAAP to IFRSs are given in note 57. statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, adopted for use in the European Union and therefore All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
There are no eliminated on consolidation.
adjustments required to these financial statements in respect of standards that have been issued but not yet enacted.
In addition, at Investments in joint ventures this time standards that have been issued but not yet enacted are The Groups share of results of joint ventures is included in the not expected to have an impact on the Group.
consolidated income statement using the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of their net assets is included in the The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost consolidated balance sheet, including associated goodwill.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Report & Accounts 68 Notes to the Accounts year ended 31 March 2006 Goodwill Revenue is recognised on the sale of a policy except where an Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the obligation exists to provide future services where an appropriate cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the proportion of monies received in advance are treated as deferred identi able assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or joint venture at income and recognised over the relevant period.
Revenue from the date of acquisition.
contracts of reinsurance is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the policies.
All associated costs are charged to the Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment income statement as incurred.
If claims costs under reinsurance annually or more frequently if there is an indication that it may contracts are expected to exceed revenue, the shortfall would be be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the charged to the income statement immediately.
income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
During the year, estimates regarding revenue recognition on For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to certain promotional policies were aligned with those of our each of the Groups cash generating units expected to bene t standard policies, resulting in an increase in revenue and pro t of from the synergies of the combination.
If the recoverable amount 750,000. is less than the carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to Emergency Repair businesses the cash generating unit and then to the other assets of the unit Revenue in the Emergency Repair businesses represents amounts pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the receivable, excluding VAT, from the sale of goods and services and unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in is recognised on completion of the obligations relating to the work.
Leasing On disposal of a subsidiary, or joint venture, the attributable Leases are classi ed as finance leases whenever the terms of the amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the pro t lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership or loss on disposal.
All other leases are classi ed as operating leases.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments pro t or loss on disposal.
are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the Revenue recognition remaining balance of the liability.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Bene ts of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Policy Membership businesses Revenue in respect of the Policy Membership businesses include amounts receivable from the sale of policies, stated net of commissions payable and Insurance Premium Tax.
Homeserve plc 69 Notes to the Accounts year ended 31 March 2006 Foreign currencies Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded the bene ts are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
a straight-line basis over the average period until the bene ts At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that become vested.
are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non monetary items The retirement bene t obligation recognised in the balance sheet that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not represents the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation retranslated.
as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange Taxation rates uctuate signi cantly.
Exchange differences arising, if any, The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable are classi ed as equity and transferred to the Groups translation and deferred tax.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable pro t for the year.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign sheet date.
entity and translated at the closing rate.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on Borrowing costs differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used period in which they are incurred.
in the computation of taxable pro t, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally Operating profi t recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred Operating pro t is stated after charging all operating costs and tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that after the share of results of joint ventures but before investment taxable pro ts will be available against which deductible temporary income and finance costs.
Retirement benefi t costs Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary Payments to fide ned contribution retirement bene t schemes are differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in charged as an expense as they fall due.
joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the For fide ned bene t retirement bene t schemes, the cost of temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
providing bene ts is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the probable that suf cient taxable pro ts will be available to allow all income statement and presented in the statement of recognised or part of the asset to be recovered.
Report & Accounts 70 Notes to the Accounts year ended 31 March 2006 Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected Impairment of tangible and intangible assets to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset excluding goodwill is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered in equity.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally of the impairment loss, if any.
Where the asset does not generate enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax cash ows that are independent from other assets, the Group liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax which the asset belongs.
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell Property, plant and equipment and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax depreciation.
discount rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speci c to the assets for which the Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other estimates of future cash ows have not been adjusted.
than land, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount Computer equipment 3 - 5 years of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable Motor vehicles 3 years with 25% residual value amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense Furniture, xtures immediately.
and equipment 7 years Buildings 25 - 50 years Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is increased to Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash generating unit in prior Intangible assets years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income Intangible assets that are acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary immediately.
undertaking or business are stated at their fair value and are amortised over their useful lives as follows: Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable Customer relationships databases 3 7 years value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, Franchise assets 3 15 years direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Computer software and the related licences are stated at cost and Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less amortised over their useful lives of 3 5 years.
all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
Homeserve plc 71 Notes to the Accounts year ended 31 March 2006 Financial instruments Share-based payments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the payments.
In accordance with the transitional provision, IFRS 2 has contractual provisions of the instrument.
been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 April 2005.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured irrecoverable amounts.
at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled, share-based payments is expensed Cash and cash equivalents on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
deposits, and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes model or an insigni cant risk of changes in value.
Monte Carlo Simulation models depending on the type of scheme.
Financial liabilities and equity The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classi ed according the Groups ordinary shares at a discount to the current market to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An value through Save As You Earn schemes.
The Group records an equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest expense, based on its estimate of the discount related to shares in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
expected to vest on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Borrowings Judgements Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including Revenue recognition premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue Within the Policy Membership business, an appropriate proportion costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective of revenue is deferred to future periods when the Group has interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the obligations extending to future periods.
As a result, judgement is instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in required in assessing the extent and associated costs of ful lling which they arise.
The Group uses historical experience and forecast activity levels in determining the appropriate amount Trade payables of revenue to recognise in the current period and how much to Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their defer to future periods.
Estimation uncertainty Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the Impairment of goodwill proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
The annual impairment assessment in respect of goodwill requires estimates of the value in use of cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated to be calculated.
As a result, estimates of future cash ows are required, together with an appropriate discount factor for the purpose of determining the present value of those cash ows.
