Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Galiform plc We have audited the parent company We report to you our opinion as to whether We planned and performed our audit financial statements of Galiform plc for the parent Company financial statements so as to obtain all the information and the 53 weeks ended 30 December 2006 give a true and fair view and whether the explanations which we considered which comprise the Balance Sheet and parent Company financial statements have necessary in order to provide us with the related notes 1 to 9.
These parent been properly prepared in accordance with sufficient evidence to give reasonable company financial statements have been the Companies Act 1985.
We also report assurance that the parent Company prepared under the accounting policies to you whether in our opinion the Directors financial statements are free from material set out therein.
Report is consistent with the parent misstatement, whether caused by fraud We have reported separately on the Company financial statements.
or other irregularity or error.
In forming Group financial statements of Galiform plc In addition we report to you if, in our our opinion we also evaluated the overall for the 53 weeks ended 30 December opinion, the Company has not kept proper adequacy of the presentation of 2006 and on the information in the accounting records, if we have not received information in the parent Company directors remuneration report that is all the information and explanations we financial statements.
described as having been audited.
require for our audit, or if information This report is made solely to the specified by law regarding directors Opinion Companys members, as a body, in remuneration and other transactions In our opinion: accordance with section 235 of the is not disclosed.
Our audit work has We read the other information t he parent Company financial been undertaken so that we might state contained in the Annual Report as statements give a true and fair view, to the Companys members those matters described in the contents section and in accordance with United Kingdom we are required to state to them in an consider whether it is consistent with Generally Accepted Accounting auditors report and for no other purpose.
the audited parent Company financial Practice, of the state of the Companys To the fullest extent permitted by law, we statements.
We consider the implications affairs as at 30 December 2006: do not accept or assume responsibility to for our report if we become aware of any t he parent Company financial have anyone other than the Company and the apparent misstatements or material been properly prepared in accordance Companys members as a body, for our inconsistencies with the parent Company with the Companies Act 1985: and audit work, for this report, or for the financial statements.
Our responsibilities t he information given in the Directors opinions we have formed.
do not extend to any further information Report is consistent with the parent outside the Annual Report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion Deloitte & Touche LLP The directors responsibilities for preparing We conducted our audit in accordance Chartered Accountants and Registered the Annual Report, the Directors with International Standards on Auditing Auditors Remuneration Report and the parent UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing London Company financial statements in Practices Board.
An audit includes 6 March 2007 accordance with applicable law and United examination, on a test basis, of evidence Kingdom Accounting Standards United relevant to the amounts and disclosures in Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the parent Company financial statements.
Practice are set out in the Statement of It also includes an assessment of the Directors Responsibilities.
significant estimates and judgements Our responsibility is to audit the parent made by the directors in the preparation of Company financial statements and the part the parent Company financial statements, of the Directors Remuneration Report and of whether the accounting policies to be audited in accordance with relevant are appropriate to the Companys legal and regulatory requirements and circumstances, consistently applied International Standards on Auditing and adequately disclosed.
