Principal Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain property, plant and equipment, available for sale investments, financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and those IFRS standards as adopted by the European Union and IFRIC interpretations which are effective as at 31 December 2006.
The following Standards, Interpretations and Amendments, which became effective for and were adopted during the year ended 31 December 2006, had no impact on the Groups results or financial position: IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources Amendment to IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Amendment to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market - Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment The following Standards, Interpretations and Amendments are effective subsequent to the year end and consequently have not been adopted for the year ended 31 December 2006: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 8 Operating Segments Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements Consolidation On adoption of IFRS, the Company elected not to restate business combinations prior to 1 January 2004.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies.
The Group accounts include the results of the Company and its subsidiaries, together with its share of associates.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date control ceases.
Associates An associate is an entity in which the Group has an effective interest of not less than 20% and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
The Groups share of after tax results of associates is included separately in the income statement.
Goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration given exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired.
2006 annual report & accounts 39 Principal Accounting Policies continued Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Impairments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
On the disposal of a business, goodwill relating to that business remaining on the balance sheet is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue Revenue represents the invoiced amount, excluding sales related taxes, of goods sold and services provided and is recognised when title passes to the customer or when the service has been rendered.
Revenue on long term contracts is recognised by reference to the value of the work done during the period.
Revenue is not recognised for barter transactions that involve the exchange of goods or services which are of a similar nature and value.
Exceptional Items Exceptional items are regarded as one-off items of income and expense that do not intentionally recur and, due to their size and nature, need to be disclosed separately in order to give a true and fair view of the results of the Group.
Interest Interest income and expense is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or valuation including decommissioning costs and depreciated to their expected residual values on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, at the following rates: Freehold property 2%-10% Leasehold buildings life of lease Oil and gas exploration and equipment unit of production Pipelines, tanks and associated equipment 4%-20% 1 3 Plant, machinery and motor vehicles 6%-33 % Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold property and long leasehold buildings and terminals are revalued with sufficient regularity, at least every five years, such that the carrying amount does not differ materially from the fair value at the balance sheet date.
Computer software integral to an item of machinery is capitalised as part of the hardware.
Property, plant and equipment are impaired if their recoverable amount falls below their carrying value.
Impairment losses are charged to the income statement immediately unless they arise on previously revalued assets, in which case they are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense up to the amount of the revaluation and thereafter in the income statement.
On adoption of IFRS on 1 January 2004 the Company elected not to fair value its property, plant and equipment.
Intangible Assets Intangible assets are stated at cost.
Those assets that have a finite life are amortised in accordance with the pattern of expected future economic benefits, or when this cannot be reliably estimated, by using the straight-line method.
40 2006 annual report & accounts Principal Accounting Policies continued General computer software is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Customer relationships are amortised over a period of ten years and other intangibles over a period of between five and eight years.
Foreign Currencies The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries and associates are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
The presentation currency of the Group and functional currency of Hunting PLC is sterling.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and associates are translated into sterling at the market rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Trading results are translated at the average rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the consolidation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries and on foreign currency borrowings used to finance overseas net equity investments are dealt with through the foreign currency translation reserve, which commenced on 1 January 2004, whilst those arising from trading transactions are dealt with in the income statement.
The cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations that existed on 1 January 2004 are deemed to be zero.
On the disposal of a business, the cumulative exchange differences previously recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve relating to that business are transferred to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Taxation The tax charge on the profit or loss for the year comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected net tax payable on the current years net profits, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, plus adjustments to net tax payable in respects of prior years net profits.
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised separately on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that they are expected to be recoverable.
Deferred taxation is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to taxable transactions taken directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
The deferred tax is released to the income statement at the same time as the taxable transaction is recognised in the income statement.
Deferred taxation on unremitted overseas earnings is provided for to the extent a tax charge is foreseeable.
Inventories and Construction Contracts Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out method and net realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs of disposal in the ordinary course of business.
Construction contracts are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value less payments received and receivable on account.
Cost includes production overheads and a proportion of administrative overheads in addition to direct labour and material costs.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
If the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted to their present value.
Impairments The Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired at least once a year.
Where an impairment exists, the asset is written down to the lower of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
2006 annual report & accounts 41 Principal Accounting Policies continued Segmental Reporting Business segments has been established as the primary reporting format as it is the the main determinant of the sources and nature of the Groups risks and returns.
Business segments are components of the Group that are engaged in providing related products.
Geographical segments are determined by the country in which the companies operate.
Employee Benefits Payments to defined contribution retirement schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the expected cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out by qualified independent actuaries at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested and is otherwise amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
All cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2004 have been recognised in reserves.
The expected cost of post-employment benefit obligations is spread evenly over the period of service of the employees.
Share-based Payments IFRS 2 Share-based Payments has been applied from 1 January 2004 to grants of equity instruments issued after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 January 2005.
The derived cost of these instruments is spread evenly over the vesting period.
Leases A finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset to the lessee.
Assets acquired under finance leases are recorded in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment at their fair value and depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives and their lease terms.
All other leases are operating leases, and the rental of these is charged to the income statement as incurred over the life of the lease.
Interest incurred on finance leases is charged to the income statement on an accruals basis.
Operating lease income is recognised in the income statement as it is earned.
Research and Development Research costs and development costs ineligible for capitalisation are written off as incurred.
Debt Issue Costs Costs arising on the issue of new loan facilities are capitalised and amortised through interest expense using the effective interest method.
Treasury Shares Treasury shares are stated at cost and presented as an off-set against reserves.
Cash and Cash Equivalents For cashflow statement purposes, cash and cash equivalents include bank overdrafts and deposits with a maturity of less than three months.
Financial Assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available for sale financial assets.
Management determines the classification of its 42 2006 annual report & accounts Principal Accounting Policies continued investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date, which is normally the consideration paid, plus, in the case of financial assets that are not measured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset is impaired by comparing its carrying value with the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at a rate relevant to the nature of the financial asset.
If the carrying amount is higher, it is reduced to the appropriate value and the loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Financial assets cease to be recognised when the right to receive cash flows has expired or has been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
A financial asset is included in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term and also includes derivatives that are not designated as hedges.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
c Available for sale financial assets Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are recognised in equity.
Realised gains and losses including accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement.
Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date which is normally the consideration received less, in the case of financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs.
The Group subsequently re-measures all of its financial liabilities, including trade payables, at amortised cost.
The amortised cost of long term loans which have been designated as part of a fair value hedging relationship is adjusted by the movement in the fair value of the hedged risk from the date of designation of the hedging relationship.
The adjustment is recognised as a fair value gain or loss in the income statement immediately.
Interest accrued on loans that are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method is regarded as an integral part of the loan balance and therefore included within the carrying amount of those loans.
Consequently, interest payable within twelve months on loans due after more than one year is recognised in non-current borrowings.
Derivatives and Financial Instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at net proceeds received or consideration paid at the trade date and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
Recognition of the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if it is, the nature of the item being hedged.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Derivative and primary financial instruments that are designated in a hedging relationship are accounted for under one of the following methods: a Fair value hedge Hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities are fair value hedges.
Changes in the fair values of these derivatives are recorded in the income statement, together with changes in the fair values of the hedged items that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments and hedged items and interest arising on the hedging instruments and hedged items are disclosed separately within finance costs.
2006 annual report & accounts 43 Principal Accounting Policies continued b Cash flow hedge Hedges of highly probable forecast transactions are cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognised in equity.
The gains and losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are dealt with in the income statement at the same time as the gains and losses on the hedged items.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gains and losses that were reported in equity are immediately transferred to the income statement.
c Net investment hedge in foreign operations Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in equity.
Gains and losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are released to the income statement when the foreign operation is sold.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and commodity based derivatives which are traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of other financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques, predominantly discounted cash flows.
All of the Groups hedges to which hedge accounting is applied, are tested for effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and are fully documented as hedges at the point of inception of the hedging relationship.
An embedded derivative is a feature in a sales contract or purchase contract that causes the cash flows of the contract to change whenever there is a change in a specified variable.
The Group regularly reviews its sales and purchase contracts in order to determine the existence of embedded derivatives within them.
The Groups derivatives that are embedded within a host contract are separated from that contract and measured at fair value unless either 1 the host contract is measured at fair value, in which case the fair value of the derivative is subsumed within the fair value of the entire contract, or 2 the derivative is closely related to the host contract, in which case the derivative is measured at cost.
An embedded derivative is regarded as not closely related to its host contract when the cash flows it modifies are associated with risks that are not inherent in the contract itself.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements and assumptions about the future, resulting in the use of accounting estimates.
These will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results and adjustments will consequently be necessary.
Estimates are continually evaluated, based on experience and reasonable expectations of future events.
Accounting estimates are applied in determining the carrying amounts of the following significant assets and liabilities: employee benefits, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, deferred taxation, share based payments and provisions.
Further details are provided in the Critical Accounting Policies section of the Business Review on pages 13 and 14. Dividend Distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders and remain unpaid at the period end.
Dividend distributions are dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity and recognised in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders or, if earlier, declared and paid by the Company.
