33 Commitments and contingent liabilities 2006 2005 m m Commitments for capital expenditure not provided for in these accounts including acquisitions Contracts placed for future expenditure 26 19 Expenditure authorised but not yet contracted 89 81 115 100 On a consolidated basis, the Group had no contingent liability in During 2006, purported class action lawsuits were filed in respect of guarantees of borrowings and uncalled capital for the various jurisdictions in the USA on behalf of purchasers of methyl Group at 31 December 2006 31 December 2005: nil.
methacrylate who claim to have suffered anti-trust injury as a result of alleged cartel activity in the European methacrylates market.
All of The Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to requirements the lawsuits were transferred to the US District Court for the Eastern that it complies with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
Failure District of Pennsylvania and consolidated into two class actions, to comply, in particular with environmental, health and safety laws one on behalf of direct purchasers and the other on behalf of indirect and regulations including spills or other releases of hazardous purchasers.
Three purported class actions were also filed in Canada.
substances to the environment and permit or approval requirements, In November 2006, ICI filed motions to dismiss the US lawsuits.
could result in: restrictions on the operation of the Groups facilities, Those motions are currently pending before the court.
With respect damages, fines, increased costs of compliance, reputational damage, to these proceedings, ICI is unable to quantify meaningfully the loss requirements to correct effects on the environment of prior disposal to which the proceedings may give rise.
or release of chemical substances by the Group or other parties, or other sanctions.
These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
From the early 1970s until 1999, ICI Americas Inc. ICIA, a subsidiary, operated and maintained, on behalf of the US Army, two The Glidden Company Glidden, a wholly owned subsidiary of manufacturing facilities.
Employees at each facility were employed ICI, is a defendant, along with former producers of lead pigment and by ICIA and were members of ICIA pension schemes.
The US Army former producers of lead pigment-based paint as well as other lead reimbursed to ICIA the cost of contributions to each pension scheme.
product manufacturers and their trade associations, in a number of Upon termination of the contract in 1999, each of the schemes lawsuits in the United States.
These lawsuits seek damages for carried a surplus.
In September 2004, the US Army Contracting alleged personal injury caused by lead pigment-based paint or the Officer issued a final determination holding that termination of the costs of removing lead pigment-based paint.
An alleged predecessor contract triggered a refund to the US Government of an amount of Glidden manufactured lead pigments until the 1950s and lead equal to the value of the 1999 pension surplus.
ICIA filed an appeal pigment-based consumer paint until the 1960s.
Glidden is currently of the final determination to the Armed Services Board of Contract a defendant in three active suits The City of New York v. Lead Appeals on 26 January 2005.
On 22 April 2005, the US Army Industries Association, Inc. et al.
1989, Smith v. Lead Industries re-issued its final determination, amended to include an additional Association, Inc. et al.
1999 and Hurkmans v. Salczenco, et al.
ICIA filed an appeal of the new final determination 2005.
Glidden continues to believe that it has strong defences on 14 July 2005.
A four-day hearing was held in January 2006. to all of the pending cases, has denied all liability and will continue Post-trial briefing has now concluded and a decision on liability is to defend all such actions.
With respect to these proceedings, ICI expected during 2007.
ICI does not believe that the outcome of this is unable to quantify meaningfully the loss to which the proceedings matter will have a material effect on the Groups financial position.
In recent years, the Group has carried out a programme of strategic In 1986, a subsidiary of ICI purchased a newly formed company, disposals, in the course of which the Group has given to other now Glidden, from a predecessor of Millennium Holdings LLC parties certain indemnities, warranties and guarantees, including the Seller, now a subsidiary of Lyondell Chemical Company.
indemnities, warranties and guarantees relating to known and Under the sale agreement, the Seller agreed to indemnify Glidden potential latent environmental, health and safety liabilities.
There against certain claims relating to certain pre-completion liabilities, are also a number of contracts relating to businesses which the and Glidden also gave certain indemnities to the Seller.
Whilst Group exited as part of its disposal programme which have not Glidden did not acquire any assets or liabilities for the manufacture been novated to the purchasers of these businesses.
or sale of lead pigments, the Seller, however, has previously asserted The Groups 50% interest in Teesside Gas Transportation Ltd TGT that it is entitled to indemnification under the sale agreement for was sold, during 1996, to a subsidiary of its other shareholder, certain liabilities it may have relating to lead pigment and or lead Enron Europe Ltd Enron which is currently in administration.
Glidden, which has assumed all of the TGT contracted with the owners of a distribution network the CATS purchasers rights and obligations under the sale agreement, believes parties to purchase pipeline capacity for North Sea gas and the that it has no such obligation to indemnify the Seller.
The above commitment is guaranteed severally on a 50:50 basis by ICI and indemnity claims have not been ruled on by any court.
The present value of the commitment guaranteed by ICI at to these claims, ICI is unable to quantify meaningfully the loss to 31 December 2006 is estimated at 29m.
On the sale of the Groups which the claims may give rise.
interest in TGT to Enron, ICI received the benefit of a counterOn 31 May 2006, ICI was informed of the European Commissions guarantee from Enrons parent, Enron Corp. Enron Corp. sought decision to fine ICI 91.4m relating to ICIs ownership of ICI Acrylics, Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the USA on 2 December 2001. which ended in 1999 when that business was sold.
As described The Groups interest in Teesside Power Ltd TPL was sold on in note 3, the fine has been charged as a special item in arriving at 31 December 1998 to Enron Teesside Operations Ltd ETOL.
TPL the Group operating profit loss in 2006.
ICI filed an appeal had previously contracted with certain gas sellers for the purchase before the European Court of First Instance on 17 August 2006 of gas.
Enron Corp. and ICI had guaranteed on a several basis the and the parties have since exchanged further pleadings in this matter.
liability of TPL to the gas sellers in the proportions 70% and 30% The final Commission pleading is expected in March 2007. respectively.
On the sale of the Groups interest in TPL to ETOL, www.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 119 Accounts
