Company accounting policies As used in the financial statements and related notes, the term Hedge accounting Company refers to Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
The separate The accounting for the Companys various hedging activities are financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the detailed below: Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by the Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Transaction exposure hedging Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
Forward currency contracts hedging transaction exposures are fair valued through the income statement.
No hedge accounting is applied.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Cash flow hedging By virtue of Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company Derivatives used to economically hedge the currency risks associated is exempt from presenting a profit and loss account.
The Company with forecast cash flows are fair valued through the income statement.
has taken the exemption not to prepare a cash flow statement under Where these derivatives form part of designated, effective cash flow the terms of FRS 1 Revised 1996 Cash Flow Statements.
hedges, the portion of the gain or loss that is determined to be an The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies.
effective hedge in terms of FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
and Measurement is recognised directly in equity as a separate component of reserves.
Amounts that have been recognised directly Turnover in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period Turnover represents the fair value of consideration received and or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction impacts the receivable for goods supplied to customers after deducting sales income statement.
allowances, rebates and value added taxes.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership Discontinuance of hedge accounting of the goods have been transferred to the customer, the revenue can Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the hedging be measured reliably and collectability is reasonably assured.
instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At the time, the following accounting Depreciation treatment will be adopted: The Companys policy is to write off the book value of each tangible Fair value hedges fixed asset excluding land to its residual value evenly over its estimated Any fair value adjustment made to the carrying amount of the hedged remaining life.
Reviews are made annually of the estimated remaining item, as a consequence of the fair value hedge relationship, shall be lives of individual productive assets, taking account of commercial amortised to profit or loss through the income statement over the and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear.
remaining life of the hedged item.
Under this policy, the lives approximate to 32 years for buildings and 14 years for plant and equipment.
Depreciation of assets qualifying Cash flow hedges for grants is calculated on their full cost.
No depreciation has been Any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised provided on land.
Impairment reviews are performed where there in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
is an indication of potential impairment.
If the carrying value of an If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net asset exceeds the higher of the discounted estimated future cash cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net flows and net realisable value, the impairment is charged to the profit or loss for the period through the income statement.
Investments Retirement benefits Investments are held at cost less provisions for impairment.
Retirement benefits are accounted for under FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
The Company operates defined contribution and benefit Operating leases schemes for its employees.
The Company is unable to identify its The cost of operating leases is charged on the straight line basis share of assets of the underlying assets and liabilities of its defined over the period of the lease.
In accordance with FRS 17, the Company accounts for them as though they were defined contribution schemes.
Taxation Full provision for deferred tax is made for timing differences between Research and development the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and Research and development expenditure is charged to profit in the their recognition in the tax computation, using current tax rates year in which it is incurred.
except as otherwise required by FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
The Company does not discount these balances.
No deferred tax is provided in Foreign currencies respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates ruling at the or associates where no commitment has been made to remit date of the Company balance sheet.
Exchange differences on foreign such earnings.
currency borrowings and deposits are included within net interest payable.
Exchange differences on all other balances are taken to Stock valuation operating profit.
Finished goods, raw materials and other stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The first in, first out or an Financial derivatives average cost method of valuation is used.
In determining cost for Financial instruments are reported in accordance with FRS 26 stock valuation purposes, depreciation is included but selling Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The expenses and certain overhead expenses are excluded.
accounting policies are presented below.
Environmental liabilities Financial derivatives The Company is exposed to environmental liabilities relating primarily The Company uses various derivative financial instruments to manage to its past operations, principally in respect of soil and groundwater exposure to foreign exchange risks.
The Company does not use remediation costs.
Provisions for these costs are made when derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
expenditure on remedial work is probable and the cost can be estimated within a reasonable range of possible outcomes.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 135 Accounts Company accounting policies continued Disposal provisions Share-based payments The Company is exposed to certain liabilities when businesses The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based are divested and disposal provisions are created as part of the Payment and has elected not to adopt the exemption to apply gain or loss on disposal calculation.
Typical costs include pension FRS 20 only to awards made after 7 November 2002, instead a liabilities, environmental costs, transaction costs and separation full retrospective approach has been followed on all grants not fully costs.
Provisions are only established when the Company has vested at the date of adoption to maintain consistency across a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past reporting periods.
event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be employees.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at made of the amount of the obligation.
The Company reviews its fair value at grant date.
Fair value is measured using the Blackdisposal provisions regularly to determine whether they accurately Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon reflect the present obligations of the Company based on the latest which the instruments were granted, excluding the impact of any available facts.
Contingent liabilities The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that arise from past events by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted and and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence of one the number of equity instruments which eventually vest.
At each or more uncertain future events not wholly within the Companys control balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimates in respect of or are present obligations arising from past events that are not non market conditions of the number of equity instruments that are recognised as it is not probable a transfer of economic benefits will expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original occur or the amount cannot be measured with sufficient certainty.
estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding The Companys reviews its obligations regularly.
adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
136 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
