Independent auditors report to the Members of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC We have audited the Group accounts of Imperial Chemical Industries We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and PLC for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group accounts.
Group income statement, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash We consider the implications for our report if we become aware flow statement, the Statement of Group recognised income and of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with expense and the related notes.
These Group accounts have been the Group accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company accounts of Basis of audit opinion Imperial Chemical Industries PLC for the year ended 31 December We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 2006 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration report on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
that is described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group accounts.
It also This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group accounts, audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Companys members those matters we are required to state to them circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the anyone other than the Company and the Companys members information and explanations which we considered necessary in order as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance we have formed.
that the Group accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of and Auditors information in the Group accounts.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Opinion Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set In our opinion: out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 57. the Group accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with Our responsibility is to audit the Group accounts in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards at 31 December 2006 and of its profit for the year then ended: on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group accounts give with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: a true and fair view and whether the Group accounts have been and properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our Group accounts.
opinion, the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group accounts.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Business KPMG Audit Plc review that is cross-referred from the Business review section of Chartered Accountants the Directors report.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, Registered Auditor we have not received all the information and explanations we require London for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors 22 February 2007 remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
58 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Board of Directors, governance and remuneration
