Definitions Adjusted earnings per share Net profit before special items attributable to the equity holders of the parent, divided by weighted average number of shares in issue less weighted average number of shares held by the Groups employee share plans during the period.
Adjusted net profit Net profit before special items attributable to equity holders of the parent.
Adjusted profit before taxation Profit of continuing operations before taxation and special items.
Cash flow before acquisitions Cash flow from operating activities after capital expenditure and proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and divestments less payments made in respect of disposals prior to 2004.
Comparable Results excluding the effects of currency translation differences and the impact of acquisitions and divestments.
At a Group level this refers to continuing operations only.
Comparable profits and losses are quoted before accounting for special items.
Continuing ICIs continuing operations comprise the Paints, Adhesives, Specialty Starches, Specialty Polymers, Electronic Materials, and Regional and Industrial businesses, Corporate and other.
Earnings before interest, Profit before interest, taxation, depreciation, amortisation of intangibles and before special items.
tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA Earnings per share Net profit after special items attributable to the equity holders of the parent, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue less the weighted average number of shares held by the Groups employee share plans during the period.
Gross margin Sales value less the variable and fixed costs directly associated with the manufacture and distribution of the goods sold.
IAS IASB International Accounting Standard International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Interest cover Calculations of interest cover are based on the sum of the Groups operating profit before special items from continuing and discontinued operations, post-retirement benefit finance charges, the Groups share of net associated company income associates trading profit less taxation and net finance expense of associates divided by the net of interest expense and income of the Group excluding share of net finance expense of associates and post-retirement benefit finance expense.
Net debt The borrowings of ICI comprising loans and short-term borrowings other than overdrafts together with related derivatives, obligations under finance leases and the liabilities associated with the forward contracts for the acquisition of own shares the extent that the contracts are out of the money less cash including overdrafts, cash equivalents and current asset investments.
Return on capital employed Trading profit after amortisation of intangibles, before special items, after restructuring amortisation and after a tax ROCE charge for the last 12 months divided by the average of capital employed for this current period end and that of the 12 months previously, expressed as a percentage.
Notes: Cash expenditure on restructuring is capitalised in each year that expenditure occurs and is then amortised over three years starting on 1 January following the year of the expenditure.
A tax charge is applied to the trading profit before amortisation of intangibles and after restructuring amortisation.
In view of the potential for volatility in the Groups adjusted tax rate, a rate of 20% has been used in 2006 2005 21%.
Capital employed: Net operating assets plus net operating special items.
Net operating assets: Property, plant and equipment plus goodwill on acquisitions plus operating working capital.
Goodwill on acquisitions relates to goodwill capitalised on the balance sheet and, therefore, excludes goodwill arising prior to 31 December 1997 largely that arising on the acquisition of the Unilever Speciality Chemical businesses which has been charged directly to reserves.
Net operating special items: For financial ratio calculation purposes only, this is defined as: Asset write downs arising on restructuring plus cash cost of restructuring before tax and after amortisation: for financial ratio purposes only, cash expenditure is capitalised in each year that expenditure occurs and is then amortised over three years starting on 1 January following the year of expenditure.
Special items Special items are those items of financial performance that should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group and in making projections of future results, as explained in IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
Special items include items relating to both continuing and discontinued businesses.
Trading margin Trading profit expressed as a percentage of sales.
Trading profit Operating profit before special items.
At a Group level, this refers to continuing operations only.
Management believes these measures are important financial indicators, however, they should not be considered in isolation or as an alternative to operating profit or net profit or cash flow from operating activities, in each case determined in accordance with IFRS.
Words within single quotation marks, the letters ICI, the Roundel Device, National Starch, Quest and Uniqema are all trademarks of the ICI Group of companies.
Printed in Great Britain on paper Certified as a FSC mixed sources grade containing 50% recovered waste and 50% virgin fibre and produced at a mill which has been certified to ISO 14001 Environmental Management Standard.
Print: St Ives Westerham Press www.
com ICI Annual Review 2006 25 Definitions
