Notes relating to the Group accounts continued 33 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued Related party: ICI Specialty Chemicals Pensions Trustee Limited the Trustee ICI received the benefit of a counter-indemnity from ETOL and a guarantee from Enron Corp. in respect of ICIs 30% guarantee Transaction: In recognition of a deficit for funding purposes of 95m commitment to the gas sellers.
As mentioned above, Enron Corp. and a funding ratio of 71.2% as at 31 March 2005 identified as has sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the USA.
ETOL a result of the completion of the valuation of the ICI UK Specialty went into administrative receivership in April 2003, and sold its Chemicals Pension Fund the Fund, the Company agreed to make business and assets to Sembcorp Utilities Teesside Ltd Sembcorp.
top-up contributions to the Fund over ten years, comprising annual However, the counter-indemnity to ICI was not transferred to payments of 12.3m, from 2006 to 2015.
Sembcorp and remained a liability of ETOL which is now in Key terms have been agreed between the Company and the Trustee liquidation.
The present value of the gas purchase commitment as to the re-apportionment of any debt arising by virtue of section 75 guaranteed by ICI at 31 December 2006 is estimated at 50m.
of the Pensions Act 2004 relating to the sale of Quest International The only significant take-or-pay contract entered into by a member Flavours and Fragrances Ltd Quest Ltd.
Both parties have agreed of the Group is for the purchase of electric power in the UK, which that the Fund Trust Deed will be amended to permit the Trustee to commenced in the second quarter of 1998, for 15 years.
The value re-apportion section 75 debts arising on the cessation of membership of this commitment at 31 December 2006 is estimated at 94m.
of the Fund by participating employers.
An amount of 1,000 will be payable by Quest Ltd once it ceases to be a participating employer, The numbers quoted in the three preceding paragraphs are ICIs and the remaining section 75 debt arising on the sale of Quest Ltd current estimates of its maximum potential liability.
Although the will be re-apportioned between the Company and the remaining outcome of these matters is uncertain, ICI considers it unlikely that a participating employers.
In consideration of the agreement, the material liability will arise.
Company will provide the Fund with an amount to increase the Funds The ultimate outcome of the matters described in this note is subject assets up to full funding on an IAS 19 Employee Benefits basis after to many uncertainties, including future events and the uncertainties allowing for liabilities corresponding to the active members employed inherent in litigation.
As further described in notes 24 and 25, the by Unichema Chemicals Limited, Uniqema Limited and Quest Ltd Group has made provision in its financial statements for liabilities to estimated to be 65m the Funding Amount and the Company the extent they are considered probable and can be measured with will provide the Trustee with a letter of credit for a value representing sufficient reliability.
However, these liabilities are inherently difficult the difference between the Funding Amount and the amount of the to predict and quantify, and the provisions we have established may section 75 debt arising on the divestment of Quest Ltd estimated be inadequate to cover them.
These matters may involve substantial to be of the order of 75m.
Such agreement is subject to obtaining sums and an unfavourable outcome of one or more of these matters clearance from the Pensions Regulator.
could have a material effect on the Groups results of operations, cash flow and or financial position.
34 Related party transactions The following information is provided in accordance with IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, as comprising material transactions with related parties during 2006.
Related party: IC Insurance Limited and its subsidiaries Transaction: Funds on deposit with ICI Finance PLC amounting to 10m 2005 10m Related party: ICI Pensions Trustee Limited Transaction: In recognition of a deficit for funding purposes of 657m and a funding ratio of 90.9% as at 31 March 2005 identified as a result of the completion of the valuation of the ICI UK Pension Fund the Fund, the Company agreed to make top-up contributions to the Fund over nine years, comprising annual payments of 122m for the first four years, from 2006 to 2009, and annual payments of 62m for the following five years, from 2010 to 2014.
As from September 2004, the Company has also provided an assetbacked guarantee, via a wholly owned subsidiary, ICI Receivables Funding Limited the SPV specifically incorporated to provide the guarantee, for 250m to be secured by way of fixed and floating charge over the receivables of certain Group companies which have been assigned to the SPV and by way of cash and cash equivalents deposited with the SPV.
At 31 December 2006, 228m 31 December 2005 268m of trade debtors and 57m 31 December 2005 5m of cash and cash equivalents were assigned to the SPV.
120 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
