Notes relating to the Group accounts 1 Basis of presentation of financial information These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, International Accounting Standards IAS and related IFRIC interpretations in issue, that have been endorsed by the European Commission and are effective at 31 December 2006, or where ICI has chosen to adopt early at 31 December 2006 adopted IFRS.
New accounting policies and future requirements The following standards or interpretations, issued by the IASB or the IFRIC, that have been adopted by the European Commission, came into effect during the year and have been applied by the Group: Amendment to IAS 39 Cash flow hedge accounting of forecast intra-group transactions Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures Amendment to IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment The standards listed above did not have a significant effect on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group, except for IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease.
IFRIC 4 came into effect from 1 January 2006 and provides guidance on whether complex arrangements include a lease.
As a result of this requirement, certain arrangements have required reclassification as leases.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, this has resulted in additional assets of 15m being recognised on the balance sheet at 1 January 2004, offset by the recognition of associated finance lease creditors of 19m, which are included within net debt.
As a consequence, net assets at 1 January 2004 were restated from 572 m to 576 m. Net debt at 1 January 2004 has been restated from 1,326m to 1,345m.
Operating profit for 2005 and 2004 has increased by 3m and 2m respectively and net finance expense for 2005 and 2004 has increased by 3m and 2m respectively.
Profit before tax is unchanged in both years and therefore there is no impact on earnings per share.
The following standards or interpretations, issued by the IASB or the IFRIC, have been adopted by the European Commission, but only become effective for accounting periods beginning after 31 December 2006: Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of Embedded Derivatives The Group does not currently believe the adoption of these standards or interpretations, which are not yet effective, will have a significant effect on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
The following standards or interpretations, issued by the IASB or the IFRIC, have not yet been adopted by the European Commission and only become effective for accounting periods beginning after 31 December 2006: IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions The Group is currently assessing the impact of these standards or interpretations, which are not yet effective.
Changes in presentation During the year, the Group changed its reporting segments.
The National Starch business, previously reported as one segment, is now reported as four segments: Adhesives, Specialty Starches, Specialty Polymers and Electronic Materials.
This change reflects a move to global business units during 2006.
Information is also provided for the entirety of the National Starch business as it is an important part of the organisation.
Current and prior year segment information has been updated for the change.
The revenue recognition policy for the treatment of certain co-operative allowances paid to customers has been revised to better reflect internal reporting where the allowances are now treated as a deduction from revenue rather than a promotional expense.
This revision, which only impacts the Paints business, has been included in the results for 2006 and comparative information adjusted accordingly.
As a consequence, total sales for the Group for the full year 2005 and 2004 have decreased by 25m and 32m respectively.
There is no effect on operating profit.
During the year, the basis of presentation of the Groups current and deferred tax balances at 31 December 2005 was reviewed in light of the offset requirements in IAS12 Income Taxes.
As a result of this review, certain current taxation assets were offset with current taxation liabilities and certain deferred taxation liabilities were offset with deferred taxation assets.
Prior year presentation of these amounts has been changed to conform to the revised presentation.
Deferred taxation assets at 31 December 2005 originally stated at 507m have been revised to 254m and deferred taxation liabilities originally stated at 274m have been revised to 21m.
Current taxation assets 31 December 2005 originally stated at 81m 42m non-current and 39m current have been revised to 18m 15m current and 3m non-current and current taxation liabilities stated at 423m have been revised to 360m.
During the year, the Group also reviewed the basis of presentation of current asset investments within the cash flow statement.
As a result of this review, current asset investments are now presented as part of investing activities as opposed to their previous classification within financing activities.
Their inclusion within the definition of net debt is unchanged.
IFRS transition exemptions These are the Groups second consolidated financial statements in accordance with adopted IFRS.
The Groups transition date for adoption of IFRS was 1 January 2004. www.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 69 Accounts
