Group accounting policies Group accounting policies Operating leases As used in the financial statements and related notes, the term The cost of operating leases is charged on the straight-line basis over Company refers to Imperial Chemical Industries PLC: the terms the period of the lease.
ICI and Group refer to the Company, its consolidated subsidiaries Depreciation and amortisation and its proportionally consolidated joint ventures but not to its The Groups policy is to write off the book value of property, plant associates.
and equipment, excluding land, and intangible assets other than The financial statements are prepared in accordance with goodwill to their residual value evenly over their estimated remaining International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the life.
Residual values are reviewed on an annual basis.
Reviews European Union adopted IFRS and those parts of the Companies are made annually of the estimated remaining lives of individual Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The productive assets, taking account of commercial and technological presentation of these accounts in accordance with full IFRS would obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear.
Under this policy, the result in no changes to these financial statements.
The following lives approximate to 30 years for buildings, 12 years for plant and paragraphs describe the main accounting policies.
Note 36 relating equipment and 3 to 5 years for computer software.
Depreciation to the Group accounts describes the significant differences between of assets qualifying for grants is calculated on their full cost.
No IFRS and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP depreciation has been provided on land.
Impairment reviews are and presents a reconciliation of net income and shareholders equity performed where there is an indication of potential impairment.
from IFRS to US GAAP as a result of each difference.
If the carrying value of an asset exceeds the higher of the discounted estimated future cash flows from the asset and net realisable value Basis of consolidation of the asset, the resulting impairment is charged to the income The Group accounts include the accounts of the parent undertaking, statement.
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
The results of businesses acquired during the year are included from the effective date of Foreign currencies acquisition.
The results of businesses disposed of during the year Income statements of foreign operations are translated into Sterling are included up to the date of relinquishing control.
A discontinued at average rates for the relevant accounting periods where it is a operation is a component of the Groups business that represents good approximation of the actual rate.
Monetary assets and liabilities a separate major line of business or geographical area of operation, denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are or is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major translated to Sterling at exchange rates ruling at the date of the line of business or geographical area of operation, and which has Group balance sheet.
been sold, permanently terminated or classified as held for sale at Foreign exchange differences on borrowings, except foreign currency the period end.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs loans accounted for as net investment hedges, and deposits are upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified included within net finance expense.
Exchange differences on all other as held for sale if earlier.
Prior years income statements are restated balances are taken to the income statement within operating profit.
to reflect that business as discontinued.
In the Group accounts, exchange differences arising on consolidation Associates of the net investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings and Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant associates together with those on foreign currency loans accounted influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
for as net investment hedges, are taken to equity.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of An intergroup monetary item for which settlement is neither planned the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future is, in substance, a part accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences of the Groups net investment in the foreign operation.
Exchange until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups net investment in a foreign operation is recognised in a separate carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses component of equity and is recognised in profit and loss on disposal is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred of the net investment.
legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
One of the requirements of IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates is that on disposal of an operation, the cumulative Joint ventures amount of exchange differences previously recognised directly in Joint ventures are those undertakings over which the Group has joint equity for that foreign operation are to be transferred to the income control, established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
The Group has financial statements include the Groups proportionate share of the adopted the exemption allowing these cumulative translation entities assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses with items of a differences to be reset to zero at the transition date to IFRS.
similar nature on a line by line basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
Taxation Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current Revenue and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in receivable for goods supplied to customers, excluding intergroup equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
income and after deducting sales allowances, rebates and value added taxes.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
been transferred to the customer, the revenue and costs incurred in Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, respect of the transaction can be measured reliably and collectability providing for tax on any temporary differences between the carrying is reasonably assured.
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and Revenue includes the Group share of the revenue of joint ventures, the amounts used for taxation purposes using tax rates enacted or net of the Group share of any sales to the joint ventures already substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
included in the Group figures, but does not include the Groups share of the revenue of associates.
60 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Accounts No deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale investments in subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued timing of the reversal and it is probable that the temporary difference Operations was effective for annual periods beginning on or after will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are 1 January 2005.
The standard sets out the requirements for the recognised for deductible temporary differences to the extent that classification, measurement and presentation of non-current assets it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which they held for sale and replaces IAS 35 Discontinued Operations.
Group has applied IFRS 5 prospectively from 1 January 2005.
Special items Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale Special items are those items of financial performance that should are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the financial costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified performance achieved by the Group and in making projections as held for sale when the sale is highly probable and the asset of future results, as explained in IAS 1 Presentation of Financial or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present Statements.
Special items include items relating to both continuing condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which and discontinued businesses.
ICI thus believes that the detailed should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale disclosure of special items and of profit measures both before and after within one year from the date of classification.
special items enables shareholders to obtain greater understanding of Property, plant and equipment the overall and underlying performance of the Group.
Profit measures Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost before special items should be considered in addition to, and not as less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses see accounting a substitute for or as superior to, measures of financial performance policy on depreciation.
Where parts of an item of property, plant including special items.
and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for Management judgment is required to determine which items of pre-tax as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
expense or income are classified as special items, with consideration Intangible assets other than goodwill being given to size, frequency of incidence and nature, particularly Research and development in respect of their relation to the underlying trading performance Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it of the Group and or the reporting segments.
Specific items which is incurred.
have been treated in these financial statements as special include the following: Development expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it is incurred unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible gains or losses on disposal of businesses and any subsequent Assets.
Regulatory and other uncertainties generally mean that such revision to divestment provisions, since these are not part of criteria are not met.
Intangible assets, if capitalised, are amortised on ongoing activities: a straight-line basis over the period of the expected benefit.
gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment Other intangible assets where significant: Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group, principally major Group restructuring programmes: computer software, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses see accounting policy on amortisation.
material one-off past service post-retirement benefit credits: Expenditure on internally generated brands is recognised in the the fine imposed by the European Commission for alleged income statement as an expense when incurred.
Subsequent cartel activity: expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only foreign exchange gains or losses arising on the retranslation of debt when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the previously hedging goodwill written off to reserves, which cannot specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed under IAS 21 be taken to reserves: and as incurred.
income tax relating to the above items.
Valuation of inventories Finished goods, raw materials and other inventories are stated at ICI uses the term trading profit, defined as operating profit before the lower of cost and net realisable value: the first in, first out or special items, as the key measure of profit performance by its an average cost method of valuation is used consistently across businesses at all levels within the Group.
Trading profit is also the inventory classes of a similar nature.
In determining cost for inventory primary profit measure used in other internal and external performance valuation purposes, depreciation is included but selling expenses and measures such as trading margin and return on capital employed.
certain overhead expenses are excluded.
Business combinations and goodwill Securitisation of receivables On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net The Group runs two receivables securitisation programmes in the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arises USA under which funds are borrowed from a financial institution, where the fair value of the consideration given for a business exceeds secured on receivables up to the value of the borrowings.
Depending the fair value of such assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
The on Group cash flows and working capital requirements, the extent of Group has chosen not to restate business combinations prior to the use of these securitisation programmes to borrow funds fluctuates on transition date on an IFRS basis.
Goodwill arises where the fair value a short-term basis.
As the Group retains the risks in respect of the of the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value receivables, it recognises separately on the balance sheet the trade of such net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised receivables as assets and the short-term borrowings as liabilities.
and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not Environmental liabilities subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate The Group is exposed to environmental liabilities relating primarily or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is to its past operations, principally in respect of soil and groundwater included in the determination of profit or loss on disposal.
Provisions for these costs are made when arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been expenditure on remedial work is probable and the cost can be retained at the previous UK GAAP amount, subject to being tested estimated within a reasonable range of possible outcomes.
for impairment at that date.
Goodwill taken to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 61 Accounts Group accounting policies continued Disposal provisions The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is The Group is exposed to certain liabilities when businesses are determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments divested and disposal provisions are created as part of the gain or granted and the number of equity instruments which eventually vest.
Typical costs include post-retirement At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the benefit liabilities, environmental costs, transaction costs and separation number of equity instruments that are expected to vest.
Provisions are only established when the Group has a present the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required Financial assets to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the Investments and current asset investments are classified as held-toamount of the obligation.
The Group reviews its disposal provisions maturity financial assets and other loan investments are classified regularly to determine whether they continue to reflect accurately the as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39 Financial present obligations of the Group based on the latest available facts.
Both these classes of Contingent liabilities financial assets are recognised at amortised cost using the effective Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that arise from past interest method.
events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence Financial derivatives of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the Groups As described further in note 1 relating to the Group accounts, control or are present obligations arising from past events that are not financial instruments in the 2004 comparative information are recognised as it is not probable that a transfer of economic benefits will reported in accordance with UK GAAP, whereas they are accounted occur or the amount cannot be measured with sufficient certainty.
for in accordance with IFRS in the 2006 and 2005 results.
The The Group reviews its obligations regularly and provides disclosures accounting policies for financial instruments in accordance with both of its contingent liabilities in note 33 relating to the Group accounts.
IFRS and UK GAAP are detailed below.
Employee benefits Financial derivatives IFRS from 1 January 2005 The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits principally Hedge accounting healthcare under IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits.
The Groups The Group uses various derivative financial instruments to manage net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated by exposure to foreign exchange risks.
These include currency swaps independent, qualified actuaries and updated at least annually.
The Group also uses interest rate Additional updates are performed when one-time events or market swaps to manage interest rate exposures.
The Group does not use fluctuations, which do not include regular, ongoing changes in derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
actuarial assumptions, indicate that the benefit obligation and The accounting for the Groups various hedging activities is pension assets differ significantly from the most recent valuation.
detailed below: These events could occur as the result of a change in benefits, Transaction exposure hedging a redundancy exercise or a disposal.
Material settlements or Forward currency contracts hedging transaction exposures are fair curtailments are examples of the one-time events that would trigger valued through the income statement.
No hedge accounting is applied.
Obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The operating Cash flow hedging and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the Derivatives used to economically hedge the currency risks associated income statement: service costs are spread systematically over the with forecast cash flows are fair valued through the income statement.
lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods Where these derivatives form part of designated, effective cash flow in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full hedges, the portion of the gain or loss that is determined to be an in the period in which they occur and presented in the statement of effective hedge under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition recognised income and expense.
Payments to defined contribution and Measurement is recognised directly in equity as a separate retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall component of reserves.
Amounts that have been recognised directly due.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2004 were in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period fully recognised in equity at the transition date to IFRS.
or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction impacts the income statement.
Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP The financial statements of the Group include the asset and related For effective hedges that include a purchase of a forecast liabilities of the Imperial Chemical Industries PLC Employee Benefits non-monetary item, the gain or loss on the derivative, at the end Trust and Impkemix Trustees Limited, a subsidiary company of of the hedge relationship, is capitalised into the carrying value of the Group, which acts as trustee for the Groups employee share that non-monetary item.
The cost of shares held by the ESOP are deducted Interest rate hedging from equity.
Interest rate derivatives are fair valued through the income statement.
Share-based payments Where interest rate derivatives form part of designated, effective The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based fair value hedge relationships, the gain or loss from remeasuring the Payment and has elected not to adopt the exemption to apply hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in income or expense, IFRS 2 only to awards made after 7 November 2002.
Instead a and the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged full retrospective approach has been followed on all grants not risk adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item and is recognised fully vested at the date of transition to maintain consistency across in income or expense.
Where interest rate derivatives form part of reporting periods.
The fair value of these grants in prior periods designated, effective cash flow hedge relationships, the portion of has been disclosed previously as part of the ongoing US GAAP the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to disclosure requirements.
be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
Amounts that have been recognised directly in equity are recognised in the income The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged employees.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured forecast transaction impacts the income statement.
The ineffective at fair value at grant date.
Fair value is measured using the Blackportion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon immediately in the income statement.
which the instruments were granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
62 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Accounts Net investment hedging currency hedging Interest rate derivative instruments Currency derivatives are fair valued through the income statement The Groups criteria to qualify for hedge accounting are: except, where currency derivatives and foreign currency loans form The instrument must be related to an asset or a liability: and part of designated, effective net investment hedge relationships, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is It must change the character of the interest rate by converting determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
a variable rate to a fixed rate or vice versa.
The ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument Derivative financial instruments reported in the financial is recognised immediately in income or expense.
For net investment statements are: hedges, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that has been recognised in equity is recognised in income or expense on the The unamortised premium paid on purchased currency options disposal of the foreign operation.
is included in debtors in the balance sheet.
Commodity hedging Cash flows related to foreign currency derivative transactions are Derivatives used to manage commodity price exposures are fair reported along with related transactions in net cash inflow from valued through the income statement.
Where these derivatives form operating activities or financing activities, as appropriate, in the part of designated, effective hedge relationships, the portion of the Group cash flow statement.
gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an Currency swaps effective hedge is recognised directly in equity until the underlying Principal amounts are revalued at exchange rates ruling at the date hedged item is recognised.
At this point any deferred gain or loss of the Group balance sheet and included in the Sterling value of loans.
adjusts the carrying value of the underlying hedged item.
Exchange gains losses are included in the statement of recognised Discontinuance of hedge accounting income and expense along with similar movements in the values of Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the hedging the investments being hedged.
instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer Forward currency contracts qualifies for hedge accounting.
At the time, the following accounting Those forward currency contracts hedging transaction exposures treatment will be adopted: purchases and sales held in the books of account are retranslated to Fair value hedges balance sheet rates with net unrealised gains losses being shown as Any adjustment made to the carrying amount of the hedged item, debtors creditors.
Both realised gains and losses on purchases sales as a consequence of the fair value hedge relationship, shall be and unrealised gains losses on forward contracts are recognised in amortised to profit or loss through the income statement over the operating profit.
remaining life of the hedged item.
Those contracts used to change the currency mix of net debt are Cash flow hedges revalued to balance sheet rates with net unrealised gains losses Any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised being shown as part of the debt they are hedging.
The difference in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs or between spot and forward rate for these contracts is recognised as impacts the income statement.
If a forecast transaction is no longer part of net interest payable over the period of the contract.
Realised expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in and unrealised exchange gains losses are shown in the financial equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period through the statements in the same place as the underlying borrowing deposit.
Currency options Fair values Option premia are recognised at their historic cost in the Group The fair value of the Groups debt and derivatives has been estimated balance sheet as other debtors.
At maturity, the option premia net using discounted anticipated cash flows utilising zero-coupon yieldof any realised gains on exercise, are taken to the income statement curves for the relevant currencies.
Financial derivatives UK GAAP 2004 Interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements Hedge accounting Interest payments receipts are accrued with interest income expense The Group uses various derivative financial instruments to reduce as appropriate.
They are not revalued to fair value or shown on the exposure to foreign exchange risks.
These include currency swaps, Group balance sheet at period end.
If they are terminated early, the forward currency contracts and currency options.
The Group also gain or loss is spread over the remaining maturity of the original uses interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and interest instrument.
rate caps to adjust interest rate exposures.
The Group considers Interest rate caps its derivative financial instruments to be hedges i. e. an offset of The option premia are recognised on the Group balance sheet as foreign exchange and interest rate risks when certain criteria are other debtors.
The option premia, net of any realised gains on met.
Under hedge accounting for currency options, the Group defers individual caplets, are taken to net interest payable and spread evenly the instruments impact on profit until it recognises the underlying over the lifetime of the cap.
Other material instruments do not involve deferral since the profit impact they offset occurs during the terms of the contracts.
Foreign currency derivative instruments The Groups criteria to qualify for hedge accounting are: The instrument must be related to a foreign currency asset or liability that is probable and whose characteristics have been identified: It must involve the same currency as the hedged item: and It must reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Groups operations.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 63 Accounts
