36 Differences between IFRS and US accounting principles continued viii Pensions and other post-retirement benefits US GAAP continued Components of accumulated other comprehensive income Other postPension retirement plans plans at 31 Dec 31 Dec 2006 2006 m m Net prior service cost 12 58 Net actuarial loss 1,107 34 Accumulated other comprehensive income at 31 December 2006 1,095 24 Amortisation expected to be recognised in pension cost during next fiscal year Other postPension retirement plans plans 2007 2007 m m Net prior service cost 6 Net actuarial loss gain 122 3 122 3 37 Critical accounting policies, judgments and estimates The Groups main accounting policies affecting its results of operations The price inflation assumption is derived, for the most significant and financial condition are set out on pages 60 to 63.
Judgments component of the calculation i. e. that relating to the UK funds and assumptions have been required by management in applying from published Bank of England inflation curves.
The long-term the Groups accounting policies in many areas.
Actual results may rate of increase of future earnings is based on discussions within differ from the estimates calculated using these judgments and the operating businesses in each country, also taking account of assumptions.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical recent experience.
Increases in pension payments are based on accounting judgments are as follows: local legislation or scheme requirements.
Mortality and longevity assumptions are set and agreed based on Disposal provisions advice from the actuaries with regard to the demographics of each As at 31 December 2006, the Group had disposal provisions of scheme.
In respect of the ICI UK Pension Fund, which represented 317m.
These disposal provisions have arisen as a result of the 82% of the total Groups defined benefit pension obligations at the reshaping of the Groups portfolio of businesses and include end of 2006, the mortality assumptions are formally reviewed at least amounts relating to long-term residual obligations such as legacy every 3 years.
The current assumptions are disclosed in note 26 on management, pension administration, environmental costs and pages 103 and 104.
This disclosure shows the mortality table used direct disposal costs such as termination costs, transaction costs together with a table showing the expected age at death of an and separation costs.
The initial determination of the size of these average member retiring at the current date compared with one provisions, and the subsequent timing and amounts of the retiring in ten years time, in order to communicate the impact of expenditure in relation to these provisions, is inherently difficult to assumed improvements in longevity.
The other material assumptions estimate and is based on best management judgment at the time.
are those concerning healthcare cost trend rates and these are also The provisions are regularly reviewed in the light of the most current disclosed in note 26 on page 104. information available.
Average remaining life expectancy and remaining service assumptions Post-retirement benefits are based on demographic assumptions reflecting the Groups The Group operates a number of defined benefit retirement plans.
pension plan populations, as advised by the actuaries.
These are The Groups total obligation in respect of defined benefit plans totals considered annually as part of the accounting valuations but tend 9.3bn, plan assets total 8.0bn, giving a net deficit position of to be revised less frequently based on whether a change in mortality 1.3bn for the Group.
table is considered appropriate during a full fund valuation.
Assumptions The size of the total obligation is sensitive to actuarial assumptions.
Key financial assumptions are set and agreed based on advice These include demographic assumptions covering mortality and from independent, qualified actuaries on an annual basis in respect longevity, and economic assumptions covering price and medical of all the Groups major defined benefit plans.
These assumptions costs inflation, benefit and salary increase rates together with the are then used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit discount rate used.
A 0.1% decrease in the discount rate would obligation for each plan.
Appropriate discount rates to be used increase the Groups total obligation in respect of defined benefit are derived from selected indices of high quality corporate bonds plans by approximately 125m, and, independently, a 0.1% decrease in each of the countries relevant to those plans, having regard to in the inflation rate would decrease the Groups total obligation in the average duration of the pension plan liabilities.
Long-term rates respect of defined benefit plans by approximately 99m, with all of return on plan assets are agreed after consideration of trends other assumptions unchanged.
As required under IAS19 Employee and recent experience with the fund investment managers and Benefits, the sensitivity of a 1% change in the healthcare cost trend the actuaries.
The weighted average rate of return calculation rate on service and interest cost, as well as on the defined benefit takes account of any planned changes in the investment portfolio.
obligation, is shown in note 26. www.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 131 Accounts Notes relating to the Group accounts continued Asset returns The Group has significant unrecognised deferred tax assets.
Gross Actual rates of return on assets will vary from the expected rates of deferred tax assets of 894m have been reduced by deferred tax return used to calculate the post-retirement benefit finance income.
liabilities of 172m arising on taxable temporary differences.
The A comparison between the expected and actual long-term rates of remaining potential deferred tax assets of 722m have been reduced return is disclosed in note 26, showing the actual less expected by valuation allowances of 486m and reclassification of 7m to return on plan assets and reimbursement rights separately, in both assets held for sale, giving recognised deferred tax assets of 229m.
The calculation of these valuation allowances involves considerable management judgment as to the likelihood of realisation of these Contributions deferred tax assets.
The jurisdiction most impacted is the UK, The regular Company contributions to pension funds relating to where large amounts of potential deferred tax assets arise due to active members of the funds are expected to be broadly in the range a combination of post-retirement benefit liabilities and operating of 90-120m each year, subject to changes in contribution rates losses, but only 78m of deferred tax assets are recognised.
Other determined from updated actuarial assumptions, changes in numbers jurisdictions where uncertainties have caused unrecognised deferred of employees and the numbers of early retirements.
tax assets include in particular the USA, and to a lesser extent the In addition, recurring contributions are required to address funding Netherlands, Germany, Spain and Canada.
shortfalls and in particular, as a result of the most recent funding Managements judgment on the requirement for valuation allowances valuation of the ICI UK Pension Fund, additional top-up contributions is based on a number of factors, which seek to assess the in respect of the funding deficit will be made at 122m per year for expectation that the benefit of deferred tax assets will be realised.
In three years from 2007 to 2009, and 62m per year for five years from a number of jurisdictions UK, Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Canada 2010 to 2014: and for the ICI UK Specialty Chemicals Fund, topup and the USA there are insufficient taxable temporary timing contributions are recurring at 12m per year over the ten year period differences to allow recognition of these assets and either forecasts from 2006 to 2015.
These contributions are subject to review at the in these jurisdictions show recurring taxable losses or our forecasts triennial funding valuations for both funds, and could vary up or down do not indicate that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable depending on the outcomes of those valuations.
Additionally, as a profits in future periods to support full recognition.
In assessing the consequence of the Uniqema divestment, contributions totalling sufficiency of future taxable income the Group takes account of tax 48m will be made to the ICI UK Specialty Chemical Fund and the planning strategies which it believes to be prudent and appropriate.
ICI UK Pension Fund and, as a consequence of the sale of the Quest business, the Company is expected to make a contribution to the ICI Both recognition and non-recognition of deferred tax assets are UK Specialty Chemicals Pension Fund of approximately 65m and a dependent on an ongoing review by management of assumptions contribution to the ICI UK Pension Fund of approximately 138m.
in forecasting future profits and trading conditions.
Changes in conditions may lead to both increases or decreases in forecast profits Taxation and in such circumstances continued or increased recognition of Provisions for tax contingencies require management to make deferred tax assets will be reviewed.
judgments and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
Further detail on the Groups deferred taxation position is included Amounts provided are based on managements interpretation of in note 17. country specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
In arriving at this position, management reviews each material tax benefit to Contingent liabilities assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition The Group is exposed to a variety of events which might result in of the benefit on the basis of full disclosure to any relevant taxing liabilities arising.
No provision has been made for these contingent authority and potential settlement through negotiation and or liabilities since either the obligations have been evaluated as possible litigation.
All such provisions are included in current tax liabilities.
and their existence will be confirmed by uncertain future events, or The material tax provisions are discussed below: they have not been recognised because either a transfer of economic benefits is not probable or the amount cannot be measured with The current tax liability of 217m 2005 360m represents the sufficient reliability.
Details of the Groups contingent liabilities are amount of income taxes payable in respect of current and prior set out in note 33. periods.
It includes total provisions for uncertain tax positions of 148m 2005 248m.
These exposures, where significant, arise Goodwill principally in the UK, US and Australian jurisdictions where the The Group has capitalised goodwill under US GAAP of 2.7bn at Group conducts or conducted the major part of its business, where 31 December 2006.
Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment its principal assets are or were located and from where its major at least annually or more frequently if changes in circumstances or shareholding investments are or were held.
Lesser exposures exist the occurrence of events indicated potential impairment exists.
The in a number of other jurisdictions including the Netherlands, Pakistan, Company uses the present value of future cash flows to determine France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Belgium and Mexico.
In calculating the implied fair value, significant Over the past nine years, the Group has established a portfolio of management judgment is required in forecasting cash flows of the specialty chemicals and coatings businesses through a number of reporting unit, in estimating terminal growth values and in selecting acquisitions and disposals.
Since 1997, the Group has bought and an appropriate discount rate.
If alternative management judgments sold businesses worth in excess of 12bn.
Consequent on these were adopted then different impairment outcomes could result.
disposals and acquisitions the Group has also undertaken substantial No impairment resulted from the annual impairment test in 2006. internal restructuring both of its holding structure and business models.
As a result of this activity, a number of potential tax exposures have The headroom in the annual impairment test under US GAAP for arisen.
In addition, the Group faces a number of potential transfer the Paints North America reporting unit was 290m total US GAAP pricing issues in jurisdictions around the world.
The Group also goodwill of 145m at 31 December 2006 : a 1% increase in the faces exposures relating to relief from double taxation and foreign discount rate applied would have resulted in a 60m reduction in tax credits, country specific technical issues and a number of other the headroom.
The issues are often complex and can require many years to resolve.
Further details on these exposures and the relevant provisions are included in note 22.
132 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
