Definitions In this document the following words and expressions shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the following meanings: Adjusted earnings per share Net profit before special items attributable to the equity holders of the parent, divided by weighted average number of shares in issue less weighted average number of shares held by the Groups employee share plans during the period.
Adjusted net profit Net profit before special items attributable to equity holders of the parent.
Adjusted profit before taxation Profit of continuing operations before taxation and special items.
Adjusted tax rate Taxation on continuing operations excluding taxation on special items divided by adjusted profit before taxation.
ADR American Depositary Receipt evidencing title to an ADS.
ADS American Depositary Share representing four underlying Ordinary Shares of the Company.
As reported performance Performance including the effects of currency translation differences and the impact of acquisitions and divestments.
Cash flow before acquisitions Cash flow from operating activities after capital expenditure and proceeds from sale of property, and divestments plant and equipment less payments made in respect of disposals prior to 2004.
Company Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
Comparable Results excluding the effects of currency translation differences and the impact of acquisitions and divestments.
At a Group level this refers to continuing operations only.
Comparable profits and loses are quoted before accounting for special items.
Continuing operations ICIs continuing operations comprise the Paints, Adhesives, Specialty Starches, Specialty Polymers, Electronic Materials and Regional and Industrial businesses, Corporate and other.
Depositary Citibank Shareholder Services, as depositary under the deposit agreement pursuant to which the ADRs are issued.
Derivative A financial instrument whose value changes in response to a change in a specified underlying, for which there is little or no initial net investment, and that is settled at a future date.
Directors The Directors of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
Earnings before interest, Profit before interest, taxation, depreciation, amortisation of intangibles and before special items.
tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA Earnings per share Net profit after special items attributable to the equity holders of the parent, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue less the weighted average number of shares held by the Groups employee share plans during the period.
ESOP Employee share ownership plans, of which the principal plans are the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan, the 1994 Senior Staff Share Option Scheme, the 1994 Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, the Performance Growth Plan and the Performance Share Plan.
Fair value The amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Financial instrument Any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.
Gross margin Sales value less the variable and fixed costs directly associated with the manufacture and distribution of the goods sold.
Hedging A strategy used in risk management whereby an entity seeks to reduce or eliminate financial risks by entering into transactions that give an offsetting risk profile.
This may or may not allow an entity to use hedge accounting, whereby special accounting rules may be used if specific hedge effectiveness and other criteria are met.
IAS IASB International Accounting Standard International Accounting Standards Board.
ICI, ICI Group or the Group Imperial Chemical Industries PLC and its subsidiary companies its consolidated subsidiaries and its proportionally consolidated joint ventures but not its associates.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard s. Interest cover Calculations of interest cover are based on the sum of the Groups operating profit before special items, from continuing and discontinued operations, post-retirement benefit finance charges, the Groups share of net associated company income associates trading profit less taxation and net finance expense of associates divided by the net of interest expense and income of the Group excluding share of net finance expense of associates and post-retirement benefit finance expense.
156 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Definitions The London Stock Exchange London Stock Exchange plc.
Net debt The borrowings of ICI comprising loans and short-term borrowings other than overdrafts together with related derivatives, obligations under finance leases and the liabilities associated with the forward contracts for the acquisition of own shares to the extent that the contracts are out of the money less cash including overdrafts, cash equivalents and current asset investments.
NYSE New York Stock Exchange.
Ordinary Shares Ordinary shares of 1 each in the capital of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
pound Sterling, pence or p Refers to units of UK currency.
Reporting segments The Reporting segments comprise the Groups Paints, Adhesives, Specialty Starches, Specialty Polymers, Electronic Materials and Regional and Industrial businesses.
Return on capital employed Trading profit after amortisation of intangibles, before special items, after restructuring amortisation ROCE and after a tax charge for the last twelve months divided by the average of capital employed for this current period end and that of the twelve months previously, expressed as a percentage.
Notes: Cash expenditure on restructuring is capitalised in each year that expenditure occurs and is then amortised over three years starting on 1 January following the year of the expenditure.
A tax charge is applied to the trading profit before amortisation of intangibles and after restructuring amortisation.
In view of the potential volatility in the Groups adjusted tax rate, a rate of 20% has been used in 2006 2005 21%.
Capital employed: Net operating assets plus net operating special items.
Net operating assets: Property, plant and equipment plus goodwill on acquisitions plus operating working capital.
Goodwill on acquisitions relates to goodwill capitalised on the balance sheet and, therefore, excludes goodwill arising prior to 31 December 1997 largely that arising on the acquisition of the Unilever Speciality Chemical businesses which has been charged directly to reserves.
Net operating special items: For financial ratio calculation purposes only, this is defined as: Asset write downs arising on restructuring plus cash cost of restructuring before tax and after amortisation: for financial ratio purposes only, cash expenditure is capitalised in each year that expenditure occurs and is then amortised over three years starting on 1 January following the year of expenditure.
Revenue IFRS equivalent of sales and turnover.
SEC The United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SFAS Statement of Financial Accounting Standards US.
Special items Special items are those items of financial performance that should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group and in making projections of future results, as explained in IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
Special items include items relating to both continuing and discontinued businesses see also Group Accounting Policies, page 61.
Trading margin Trading profit, expressed as a percentage of sales.
Trading profit Operating profit before special items.
UK or United Kingdom United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
US dollar, dollar, US$ or $ Refers to units of US currency.
USA or US or United States United States of America.
US GAAP United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Management believes these measures are important financial indicators.
However, they should not be considered in isolation, or as an alternative to operating profit or net profit or cash flow from operating activities, in each case, determined in accordance with IFRS.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 157 Definitions
