Business review ICI Group and its businesses continued Other Group information Sources and availability of raw materials Comments relate to continuing businesses only The raw materials used by ICIs businesses are from a variety of sources, principally comprising petrochemical-based raw materials, Markets and distribution renewable resources and a range of other materials.
A brief description ICI sells its products through an extensive network of subsidiaries, of the raw materials and respective sources is provided for each associates and distributors.
ICI has established a core capability in procurement, Specialty products manufactured by National Starch are sold mainly embedded within its businesses but managed across the Group by a by direct sales forces and distributors.
Customers are primarily other Procurement Board.
ICI believes that the cost savings generated by manufacturers in a range of markets from consumer-orientated improving its procurement capabilities have been significant but there manufacturers of branded goods in the food, perfume and personal remains scope for significant further improvement.
care sectors to those involved in lubricants, papermaking and The prices of raw materials are subject to normal conditions of supply other chemicals.
However, the prices of some raw materials are volatile Paints are sold through a range of distribution channels.
Branded and are affected by cyclical movements in commodity prices and the architectural paints are sold through a combination of independent availability of such materials.
trade and retail outlets, as well as the Groups own trade stores, The primary raw materials used by National Starch are  in North America and the UK.
Can coatings are sold to based or are derived from corn and tapioca.
A wide range of packaging manufacturers but supplied directly to beverage and food suppliers is used, and materials are generally available in most manufacturers in Europe, the Americas and Asia, where they are used geographic markets.
Specialty hybrid corns high amylase and waxy in the production process.
seeds are planted under contract for National Starch to help ensure The Groups Regional and Industrial businesses sell into a wide range supply of these special strains.
Many of National Starchs products, of industries including consumer products, electronics, engineering, especially in the electronic materials business, contain one or more extractive industries, food and beverages, pharmaceuticals and textiles.
proprietary raw materials, developed and manufactured in-house.
These products are either marketed directly or through independent These materials are not available to National Starchs competitors, merchants, wholesalers and distributors who resell to consumers.
therefore providing a unique position in a number of markets.
Commodity products are sold through a direct sales force or through Key raw materials for ICI Paints include resins, solvents and pigments distributors, primarily to other operators in the chemical industry.
supplied by major chemical companies.
Materials are typically Competition available worldwide, and ICI Paints believes its strong global Owing to the breadth and variety of the products and end markets footprint provides commercial advantages in securing the supply served, the Group encounters a wide range of competitors, from of essential materials.
multinational companies to many small local and independent firms.
The key raw materials for the Regional and Industrial businesses are National Starch does not compete with any one competitor in all of internationally traded commodity chemicals such as paraxylene, its markets.
However, multinational competitors in specific markets monoethylene glycol, acetic acid, caustic soda and sulphur.
include H. B. Fuller, Rohm and Haas, Henkel, Air Products and Intellectual property Chemicals and A. E. Staley.
ICI has many patents and patent applications which help to protect ICI Paints principal competitors have regional strengths in decorative its technology and numerous trademark registrations which help to coatings and include Sherwin-Williams North America, BASF Latin protect its brands.
In addition, ICI derives substantial competitive America, Akzo Nobel Europe and Nippon Paint Asia.
advantage from proprietary business knowledge relating to formulae, products, processes and technical know-how.
Seasonality and cyclicality Due to the diversity of their product portfolios and broad international ICI uses appropriate terms of employment and management coverage, seasonality within National Starch and the Regional and processes to identify and protect its intellectual property.
As Industrial businesses is not significant.
ICI Paints, however, is affected, necessary, it enters into confidentiality agreements with customers, with trading patterns influenced by prevailing weather conditions.
suppliers and other third parties to protect the confidentiality of its With the geographic profile of ICI Paints, this typically results in higher proprietary, technical and business information.
levels of activity in the second and third quarters of the year.
In addition, over longer periods of time, markets for decorative paint can exhibit some economic cyclicality, typically driven by levels of investment in domestic and commercial property, although generally moving in line with GDP.
Such cyclicality can have an adverse impact on the performance of the related decorative paints business.
22 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
