Forward-looking statements Registrar and Transfer Office This Annual Review contains statements concerning the Groups Lloyds TSB Registrars business, financial condition, results of operations and certain of the The Causeway Worthing Groups plans, objectives, assumptions, projections, expectations or West Sussex BN99 6DA beliefs with respect to these items.
These statements are intended Telephone 0870 600 3993 as forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Dividend mandate Securities Litigations Reform Act of 1995.
These statements include, Any shareholder wishing dividends to be paid directly without limitation, those concerning: the Groups strategy and its ability into a bank or building society account should contact to achieve it: the benefits of the restructuring programmes in the the Registrar for a dividend mandate form.
Dividends Groups businesses: the Groups net debt: the Groups credit rating: paid in this way will be paid through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
expectations regarding sales, operating profit and growth: plans for the launch of new products and services: the impact of regulatory initiatives Electronic Communications Shareholders may now receive the Annual Report and on operations and costs: the Groups possible or assumed future Accounts and the Annual Review electronically.
There results of operations: capital expenditure and investment plans: are a number of advantages in opting to receive adequacy of capital and liquidity: financing plans: the Groups shareholder documentation in electronic form, including: retirement benefit schemes: the outcome of claims and litigation: faster delivery of documents: documents may be read and downloaded at the shareholders convenience: and statements preceded by, followed by or that included the words confirmation of transmission of proxy forms: improved believe, expect, intend, will, plan, anticipate, goal, aim, security procedures for verifying proxy forms: potential seeks, or similar expressions.
cost savings for the Company: and the saving of environmental resources.
The Company cautions that any forward-looking statements in this To register for electronic communications, shareholders Annual Review may, and often do, vary from actual results and the should visit the website at www.
com differences between these statements and actual results can be material.
Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance Share dealing service The Company has arranged a share dealing service on forward-looking statements, which speak only at their respective through The Share Centre Limited, a member of the dates.
The Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly the London Stock Exchange, under which existing and results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may new shareholders may buy or sell ICI shares.
Further be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual information may be obtained from: Review, including, without limitation, changes in the Groups business The Share Centre Limited or acquisition or divestment strategy or planned capital expenditures, PO Box 2000 or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Aylesbury Buckinghamshire HP21 8ZB By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty Telephone: 01296 414 144 because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will The publication of the information above in relation to occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause the share dealing service has been approved for the actual results and developments to differ materially from those purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by The Share Centre Limited, which expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These is a member of the London Stock Exchange and is factors include, among other things: the impact of competitive products authorised and regulated by the Financial Services and pricing: changes in the price of raw materials: the occurrence of Authority under reference 146768. major operational problems: the loss of major customers: limitations ADR Depositary imposed by the Groups indebtedness and leverage: a credit rating Citibank Shareholder Services is Depositary for ICIs downgrade by the rating agencies: contingent liabilities, including those American Depositary Receipts.
Shareholder enquiries may be directed to: arising in connection with disposed businesses: risks associated with the Groups international operations: risk of claims and litigation: Citibank Shareholder Services financial performance of the Groups retirement benefit schemes: and PO Box 43077 Providence, RI 02940-3077 other factors described in the Companys filings with the US Securities USA and Exchange Commission.
US calls toll free number : 1-877-CITI-ADR 1-877-248-4237 Non-US calls: 1-781-575-4555 Email enquiries to: citibank@shareholders-online.
com Auditor: KPMG Audit Plc 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB ICI Registered Office: 20 Manchester Square London W1U 3AN Telephone 44 0 20 7009 5000 24 ICI Annual Review 2006 www.
com Shareholder information and forward-looking statements
