Notes relating to the Group accounts 1 Basis of presentation of financial information These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, International Accounting Standards IAS and related IFRIC interpretations in issue, that have been endorsed by the European Commission and are effective at 31 December 2006, or where ICI has chosen to adopt early at 31 December 2006 adopted IFRS.
New accounting policies and future requirements The following standards or interpretations, issued by the IASB or the IFRIC, that have been adopted by the European Commission, came into effect during the year and have been applied by the Group: Amendment to IAS 39 Cash flow hedge accounting of forecast intra-group transactions Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures Amendment to IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment The standards listed above did not have a significant effect on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group, except for IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease.
IFRIC 4 came into effect from 1 January 2006 and provides guidance on whether complex arrangements include a lease.
As a result of this requirement, certain arrangements have required reclassification as leases.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, this has resulted in additional assets of 15m being recognised on the balance sheet at 1 January 2004, offset by the recognition of associated finance lease creditors of 19m, which are included within net debt.
As a consequence, net assets at 1 January 2004 were restated from 572 m to 576 m. Net debt at 1 January 2004 has been restated from 1,326m to 1,345m.
Operating profit for 2005 and 2004 has increased by 3m and 2m respectively and net finance expense for 2005 and 2004 has increased by 3m and 2m respectively.
Profit before tax is unchanged in both years and therefore there is no impact on earnings per share.
The following standards or interpretations, issued by the IASB or the IFRIC, have been adopted by the European Commission, but only become effective for accounting periods beginning after 31 December 2006: Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of Embedded Derivatives The Group does not currently believe the adoption of these standards or interpretations, which are not yet effective, will have a significant effect on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
The following standards or interpretations, issued by the IASB or the IFRIC, have not yet been adopted by the European Commission and only become effective for accounting periods beginning after 31 December 2006: IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions The Group is currently assessing the impact of these standards or interpretations, which are not yet effective.
Changes in presentation During the year, the Group changed its reporting segments.
The National Starch business, previously reported as one segment, is now reported as four segments: Adhesives, Specialty Starches, Specialty Polymers and Electronic Materials.
This change reflects a move to global business units during 2006.
Information is also provided for the entirety of the National Starch business as it is an important part of the organisation.
Current and prior year segment information has been updated for the change.
The revenue recognition policy for the treatment of certain co-operative allowances paid to customers has been revised to better reflect internal reporting where the allowances are now treated as a deduction from revenue rather than a promotional expense.
This revision, which only impacts the Paints business, has been included in the results for 2006 and comparative information adjusted accordingly.
As a consequence, total sales for the Group for the full year 2005 and 2004 have decreased by 25m and 32m respectively.
There is no effect on operating profit.
During the year, the basis of presentation of the Groups current and deferred tax balances at 31 December 2005 was reviewed in light of the offset requirements in IAS12 Income Taxes.
As a result of this review, certain current taxation assets were offset with current taxation liabilities and certain deferred taxation liabilities were offset with deferred taxation assets.
Prior year presentation of these amounts has been changed to conform to the revised presentation.
Deferred taxation assets at 31 December 2005 originally stated at 507m have been revised to 254m and deferred taxation liabilities originally stated at 274m have been revised to 21m.
Current taxation assets 31 December 2005 originally stated at 81m 42m non-current and 39m current have been revised to 18m 15m current and 3m non-current and current taxation liabilities stated at 423m have been revised to 360m.
During the year, the Group also reviewed the basis of presentation of current asset investments within the cash flow statement.
As a result of this review, current asset investments are now presented as part of investing activities as opposed to their previous classification within financing activities.
Their inclusion within the definition of net debt is unchanged.
IFRS transition exemptions These are the Groups second consolidated financial statements in accordance with adopted IFRS.
The Groups transition date for adoption of IFRS was 1 January 2004. www.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 69 Accounts Notes relating to the Group accounts continued 1 Basis of presentation of financial information continued The complete accounting policies are set out on pages 60 to 63 of this report.
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards permits those companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS.
The exemptions taken by ICI in accordance with IFRS 1 have been described in the accounting policy to which they relate and are repeated below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented and in preparing the opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 for the purpose of the transition to IFRS, except for those relating to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
ICI has taken the following key exemptions on transition to IFRS: a Business combinations: The Group has chosen not to restate business combinations prior to the transition date on an IFRS basis.
Consequently, goodwill has been accounted for up until the transition date of 1 January 2004 in accordance with UK GAAP as applicable at that time, and goodwill has been accounted for subsequent to 1 January 2004 in accordance with IFRS 1 on transition and IFRS 3 Business Combinations on a prospective basis from that date.
In particular, the acquisition of the Unilever Speciality Chemicals business in 1997 for a consideration of 4.2bn was accounted for in compliance with UK GAAP at that time.
The net assets acquired were recognised on the balance sheet at fair value 0.7bn and the goodwill on the transaction, amounting to 3.5bn, was taken directly to reserves and included as a debit balance in the profit and loss account reserve.
In addition, further acquisitions made since 1998 were accounted for under FRS 10: goodwill arising on these acquisitions has been included as an intangible asset and subject to amortisation.
If the Group had not elected to adopt the exemptions in IFRS 1 relating to business combinations, then all acquisitions made by the Group prior to 2004 would have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3.
Consequently, in the 1997 and subsequent Group balance sheets: The fair value relating to all acquisitions would have been evaluated under IFRS 3.
Goodwill of circa 3.5bn would have been recognised in 1997 subject to the recognition of intangible assets.
Intangible assets would have been recognised in accordance with IFRS 3 which contains different requirements from UK GAAP.
It is therefore possible, but we have not evaluated this, that some of the goodwill would have been reclassified as intangible assets.
It is likely that the goodwill relating to the Uniqema business and the Paints business in Latin America would have been impaired and written down to zero.
142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, impairments of 122m and 255m were recognised in relation to the Latin American Paints business in 2002 and Uniqema business in 2003, respectively being the entire goodwill relating to these businesses under US GAAP at that time.
Specifically, these accounts would have been impacted in the following ways: The 1 January 2004 IFRS transition balance sheet and subsequent balance sheets would include significant goodwill and intangible assets subject to the initial recognition criteria, including impairment testing on transition, and annual impairment and amortisation charges discussed below.
The profit on the disposal of the Quest Food Ingredients business included in the comparative 2004 income statement of 163m would have been significantly reduced as goodwill and intangibles held on the balance sheet would have been included in the assets disposed.
The income statements for the periods ending 31 December 2004, 2005 and 2006 would have included charges for amortisation of intangibles.
The main impacts on subsequent periods would be: The profit on the planned disposal of Quest would be significantly reduced as goodwill and intangibles held on the balance would be included in the assets disposed.
The goodwill recognised on the balance sheet would be assessed for impairment at least annually.
Any intangible assets determined to have a finite life would be subject to amortisation in the income statement each year and impairment testing in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Goodwill held in foreign currencies would also be retranslated annually through reserves.
b Employee benefits: All cumulative actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in equity at the transition date.
This is to maintain consistency with prospective Group policy, whereby all actuarial gains and losses will be recognised directly in reserves via the statement of recognised income and expense.
If the Group had not adopted such a policy, then the cumulative actuarial gains and losses would have been split into a recognised portion and a larger unrecognised portion.
The unrecognised portion offsetting the post-retirement benefit liability on the balance sheet would be charged to the income statement on a systematic basis over a period of time.
c Cumulative translation differences: One of the requirements of IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates is that on disposal of an operation, the cumulative amount of exchange differences previously recognised directly in equity for that foreign operation are to be transferred to the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
The Group has adopted the exemption allowing these cumulative translation differences to be reset to zero at the transition date.
If the Group had not taken this exemption, a different amount of net foreign exchange gains and losses would be transferred to the income statement on disposal of a foreign operation.
d The Group took the exemption under IFRS 1 not to restate comparative information in respect of IAS 32 and IAS 39.
As a consequence financial instruments included in the 2004 comparative information are still in accordance with UK GAAP, whereas they are accounted for in accordance with IFRS in the 2005 and 2006 results.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS, this had been treated as a change in accounting policy.
The accounting policies for financial instruments under both UK GAAP and under IFRS are detailed on page 62 to 63 of this report.
The adjustments made to reserves as a result of adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 are detailed in note 27.
The resultant effect on opening net debt is detailed in note 29.
If the Group had not taken this exemption, a number of financial instruments would have been recognised or revalued in the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2004 and accounted for during the year ended 31 December 2004 in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
70 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
