Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Operating Environment 29 Understanding our operating environment SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES Smoking in public places continues to be an important issue.
A number of countries around the world including Ireland, Italy, Norway and New Zealand already have comprehensive bans in place and others are likely to follow in the future.
Our View Imperial Tobacco recognises that other peoples tobacco smoke can be unpleasant or annoying and can raise concerns leading to calls to ban smoking in the workplace.
However, it is our view that the scientific evidence, taken as a We have a long history of whole, is insufficient to establish that other peoples tobacco smoke is a cause of any co-operation with authorities in disease.
We believe that concerns about the markets in which we operate smoking in public places can be resolved through common sense and courtesy and and we remain committed to by introducing practical solutions such as well-ventilated smoking and no-smoking working constructively with areas into workplaces, restaurants, bars governments and regulatory and other public places.
We believe that sound, reasonable and practical regulation combined with well thought out voluntary agreements is the most effective way forward.
Frank Rogerson, Corporate Affairs Director www.
com Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Operating Environment continued 2006 Summary FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON PICTORIAL HEALTH WARNINGS 30 In January 2006, Spain introduced TOBACCO CONTROL FCTC Pictorial health warnings are mandatory in a public smoking ban for all hospitality Adopted in May 2003, the World Health a number of countries including Canada venues that serve food or allow children Organisations WHO Framework and Brazil.
A number of countries, around on the premises, although bars and Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC the world are considering the use of pictorial restaurants that are smaller than is the first global tobacco treaty that seeks health warnings while others have decided 100 square metres are exempt from to regulate tobacco products in a number against their use.
Larger venues may provide of areas including tobacco advertising, a separate area for customers who wish labelling, product testing and the submission to smoke.
This was followed by a public Our View of ingredient information, as well as product smoking ban in Scotland which took effect We do not believe that pictorial health traceability.
The FCTC also addresses in March 2006.
In Scotland, smoking is warnings are necessary.
It is our view that tobacco taxation and calls for tightened no longer allowed inside any workplace such warnings are designed solely to legislation to clamp down on smuggling including bars, pubs and restaurants.
shock and stigmatise smokers, and we and illicit products.
Similar regulations are scheduled to take disagree with their use.
We believe that effect in England, Wales and Northern pictorial health warnings make no overall Ireland in 2007.
Our View contribution to the public awareness of the The European Commission is expected Imperial Tobacco respects the WHOs risks associated with smoking, which are to adopt a Green Paper on Smoke overall objective that underpins the FCTC already well known.
We believe that we are Free Environments later in 2006, to and would favour reasonable, practical entitled to use our packaging to enable our reect comments received during the regulation and self-regulatory initiatives.
consumers to distinguish our products from informal consultation period.
Although However, it is our belief that some of the those of our competitors.
the Commission does not have the FCTC provisions seek to go beyond competence to enact an EU-wide reasonable objectives and impose a 2006 Summary smoking ban, it seeks to encourage supranational regulatory regime covering To date, eight countries worldwide require Member States to adopt minimum a wide range of areas better addressed pictorial health warnings to be printed on standards for smoke-free environments.
by national regulators, who are familiar with packs whilst others are currently Our experiences in markets where local conditions.
Moreover, it gives the discussing the use of pictorial health severe smoking restrictions or bans are WHO authority to establish rules in areas warnings or have already introduced in place, supports our view on the impact well outside its core competence areas draft legislation.
In March 2006, Australia of this legislation.
Smokers will continue that fall under the jurisdiction of other bodies introduced 14 rotating warnings to cover to choose to smoke: there may be an such as the World Trade Organisation or 30 per cent of the front and 90 per cent initial dip in consumption but this the International Standards Organisation.
of the back of tobacco product packaging.
In the European Union, Belgium is the only 2006 Summary country that has already passed legislation The Conference of Parties all countries and cigarette packs carrying the new which have ratied the FCTC held its warnings are expected to be on the first session in February 2006.
the meeting, participating parties agreed to draft two protocols on illicit trade and on cross-border advertising and two guidelines on environmental tobacco smoke and on product regulation to supplement the original text of the Convention.
The draft protocols and guidelines are to be presented for discussion at the next session of the Conference of the Parties which is due to take place next year.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Operating and Financial Review EXCISE DUTY TOBACCO-RELATED LITIGATION 31 Cigarettes and other tobacco products are We are not facing any active tobacco-related subject to excise duties, which generally litigation in the UK.
represent a significant percentage of the In the Republic of Ireland, the number retail price of the products.
International of claims has fallen from 307 in 1997, to disparities in the rates of excise duty 11, ten of which are subject to pending imposed on tobacco products have created dismissal motions.
an environment that encourages the growth In Poland, we are currently facing two of smuggling, illegal cross-border trading individual claims, one on appeal following and counterfeiting.
In February 2006, we received a favourable judgment in a case brought against us Our View and other tobacco companies by a Health We remain totally opposed to smuggling, Association.
The Association has not illegal cross-border trading and appealed against the judgment.
We are committed Despite threats to do so, no proceedings to working with customs and excise have been commenced against us in authorities around the world to tackle the Netherlands.
The only case against us in Australia was dismissed in February 2006.
The claimant 2006 Summary has not appealed.
Although the level of duty increases in To date, no judgment has been entered Western European countries was less against Imperial Tobacco and no action has marked in 2006 than in the previous been settled in favour of a claimant in any year, Member States that joined the EU tobacco-related litigation involving Imperial in May 2004 continue to implement duty Tobacco or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial increases as they move towards the Tobacco has been advised by its lawyers minimum EU level.
that it has meritorious defences to the legal We have continued to work with proceedings in which damages are sought customs authorities in a number of for alleged smoking-related health effects and countries around the world to counter to threatened actions of a similar nature.
We the illegal trade in tobacco products will continue to contest all such speculative and we have now signed Memoranda of litigation against us.
Understanding MoU in a total of eleven countries.
Discussions are progressing in a number of other countries.
In March 2006, together with the other major UK tobacco manufacturers, we signed an industry MoU with HM Revenue & Customs that builds on the success of previous MoUs.
