Financial Statements Accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRIC interpretations as endorsed by the European Union collectively IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The 2006 financial statements are the Groups first full year consolidated financial statements prepared under IFRS, with a transition 71 date to IFRS of 1 October 2004.
Consequently, the comparative figures for 2005 and the Groups balance sheet as at 1 October 2004 have been restated to comply with IFRS, with the exception of IAS 32: Financial instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39: Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement which have been applied from 1 October 2005.
In addition, IFRS 1 on first time adoption allows certain exemptions from retrospective application of IFRS in the opening balance sheet for 2004.
Where these have been used, they are explained in the relevant accounting policies below.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except as described in the accounting policies on financial instruments and retirement benefit schemes below.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements note on pages 76 to 77.
Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the circumstances and constitute managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and assumptions.
This could affect future financial statements as the original estimates and assumptions are modified, as appropriate, in the year in which the circumstances change.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise Imperial Tobacco Group PLC the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise taking into account any potential voting rights.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups share of the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is included on pages 125 to 126.
Segmental reporting A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment.
The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products.
The management structure is based on geographical regions.
These geographical regions of UK, Germany, Rest of Western Europe and Rest of the World have been used as the primary reporting segments.
The manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products is a single integrated business and as a consequence, the Group has only one business segment and no secondary segment disclosure has been made.
The central costs are allocated to segments on a consistent basis of revenue less duty.
The prices agreed between Group companies for intragroup sales of materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, commissions and fees are based on normal commercial practices which would apply between independent businesses.
Foreign currency Items included in the financial statements of each Group company are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates the functional currency.
The income and cash flow statements of non-sterling denominated Group companies are translated to sterling the Groups presentation currency at average rates of exchange in each period.
Assets and liabilities of these companies are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The differences between retained profits and losses translated at average and closing rates are taken to reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation to sterling of non-sterling denominated net assets at the beginning of the year.
Any translation differences that have arisen since 1 October 2004 are presented as a separate component of equity.
As permitted by IFRS 1, any differences prior to this date are not included in this separate component of equity.
com Financial Statements Accounting policies continued Foreign currency transactions are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying net investment hedges.
Revenue recognition 72 Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when a Group company has delivered products to the customer, the customer has accepted the products and collectibility of the related receivables is reasonably assured.
Sales of services which include fees for distributing third party products are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
Licence fees are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements.
Duty In countries where duty is a production tax, duty is included in the income statement as an expense.
Where duty is a sales tax, duty is deducted from revenue.
Taxes Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the tax base.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date, and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liability is settled or the deferred tax asset is realised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries including overseas subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except where it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Dividends Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders, while interim dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid.
Intangible assets goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups share of the fair value of the net identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, both tangible and intangible.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or after 27 September 1998 is capitalised.
Previously all goodwill was written off through equity in the period of acquisition.
As permitted under IFRS 1 goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004 is stated in accordance with UK GAAP and has not been remeasured on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and cannot be subsequently reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Gains or losses on the disposal of a Group company are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying value of the Group companys assets and liabilities including the carrying amount of related goodwill.
Goodwill previously written off directly to reserves under UK GAAP is not recycled to the income statement on the disposal of the subsidiary to which it relates.
Intangible assets other These consist mainly of acquired trademarks, licences and computer software which are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Trademarks include the Davidoff cigarette trademark which was acquired in September 2006.
The Directors are of the opinion that this trademark has an indefinite life, based on the fact that Davidoff is an established international brand with global growth potential.
Other trademarks, licences and computer software are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives.
For trademarks and licences other than Davidoff the useful life does not exceed 20 years.
Computer software is written off over a period that does not exceed five years.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Financial Statements Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are shown in the balance sheet at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amounts or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with them will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Depreciation is provided so as to write off the initial cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: Buildings up to 50 years straight line Plant and equipment 2 20 years straight line reducing balance Fixtures and motor vehicles 2 14 years straight line The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and, if appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts.
These are included in the income statement.
Impairment of assets Assets that are not subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested at least annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Financial instruments 2006 Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument.
Financial assets are fide-recognised when the rights to receive benefits have expired or been transferred, and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are fide-recognised when the obligation is extinguished.
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as either receivables or cash and cash equivalents.
They are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of those receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, and is recognised in the income statement.
For interest-bearing assets, the carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short term highly liquid investments.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
For borrowings, the carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
All borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
The Group transacts derivative financial instruments to manage the underlying exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group does not transact derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are included in the balance sheet at fair value, which includes accrued interest receivable and payable where relevant.
However, as the Group has decided not to hedge account for its derivative financial instruments as permitted under IAS 39, changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Financial instruments 2005 As noted above, the Group has chosen to utilise the IFRS 1 exemption from the requirement to restate comparative information for IAS 32 and IAS 39.
For the year ended 30 September 2005, financial instruments are accounted for in accordance with UK GAAP using the following policies.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure of foreign exchange and interest rate risks and are not used for trading purposes.
Instruments qualify for hedge accounting where the underlying asset or liability has characteristics which can be directly related to the instrument transacted.
Interest differentials arising under interest rate swaps are taken to the income statement on an accruals basis and included within interest payable or receivable.
Any premiums or discounts received or paid are amortised over the lives of the instruments.
The principal amounts due to be exchanged at maturity under cross currency swaps are revalued at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date and included within derivative financial instruments.
Where forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge future transactions, gains and losses are not recognised until the transactions occur.
com Financial Statements Accounting policies continued Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity but excludes borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
74 Leaf tobacco inventory which has an operating cycle that exceeds twelve months is classified as a current asset, consistent with recognised industry practice.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been publicly announced.
Future operating losses are not provided for.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes for its employees, including both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
The Groups two principal schemes are defined benefit schemes and are operated by Imperial Tobacco Limited in the UK and Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH in Germany.
The UK schemes assets are held in trustee administered funds while the German scheme is unfunded.
Under a defined benefit scheme, the amount of retirement benefit that will be received by an employee is defined.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet is the difference between the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date and the fair value of the scheme assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over the average vesting period.
All actuarial gains and losses, including differences between actual and expected returns on assets and differences that arise as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in full in the statement of recognised income and expense for the period in which they arise.
For defined contribution schemes, the Group pays a defined contribution to the scheme: there are no further payment obligations once these contributions have been paid.
Such contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Any prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in future payments is available.
The Group has taken advantage of the optional exemption under IFRS 1 to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses with respect to employee retirement benefit schemes in the equity attributable to equity holders of the Company at 1 October 2004.
Share-based payments The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payments to equity-based employee compensation schemes in respect of awards granted after 7 November 2002 which remained unvested at 1 January 2005, the dates specified in IFRS 1.
The cost of employees services received in exchange for the grant of rights under equity-based employee compensation schemes is measured at the fair value of the equity instruments granted and is expensed over the vesting period.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted, excluding the impact of any nonmarket vesting conditions e. g. earnings per share.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of equity instruments that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of equity instruments that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The fair value is measured based on an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the equity instruments were granted.
In order to manage the related exposure, the Group buys the number of shares necessary to satisfy rights to shares arising under equity-based employee compensation schemes.
On consolidation, these shares are accounted for as a deduction from equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company.
No additional shares are issued as a result of the equity compensation plan.
When the rights are exercised, equity is increased by the amount of the proceeds received.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Financial Statements Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any 75 directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted on consolidation from equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company.
Initial adoption of IFRS In restating its transition balance sheet at 1 October 2004, the Group elected to take the following exemptions under IFRS 1: IFRS 2 Share-based Payments The Group elected to apply IFRS 2 only to equity-based employee compensation schemes in respect of awards granted after 7 November 2002 that remained unvested at 1 January 2005, the dates specified in IFRS 1.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations The Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to business combinations that took place prior to the date of transition.
In the opening balance sheet, goodwill and other assets and liabilities acquired in previous transactions remain at the same carrying value as under UK GAAP.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits The Group has taken advantage of the optional exemption to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses with respect to employee retirement benefit schemes in the equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company at 1 October 2004.
IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates Cumulative exchange differences on retranslation of net investments in overseas subsidiaries, which are recognised separately in equity under IFRS are deemed to be nil at 1 October 2004.
IAS 32 Financial instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IAS 32 and IAS 39 have been applied from 1 October 2005.
Standards and Interpretations issued but not applied At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements, were issued but the application was not yet mandatory for the period: IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
