91 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements are prepared for Inchcape plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The Company is the ultimate parent entity of the Inchcape Group the Group.
Accounting convention These financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK accounting standards.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no separate profit and loss account is presented for the Company.
In addition, the Company is not required to prepare a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements revised.
Changes in accounting standards At the balance sheet date FRS 28 Corresponding Amounts and FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures were in issue but not yet effective.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in future periods will not have a significant impact on the results or the financial position of the Company.
Foreign currencies Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange and exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less provisions for impairment.
Available for sale financial assets are stated at market value.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full without discounting based on current tax rates and law, on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax in the future except as otherwise required by FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no binding commitment to sell the asset.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation in respect of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholders funds until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders funds.
Dividends Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
