Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our operations We operate Retail and Distribution businesses representing brand partners in developed and emerging countries.
Distribution The distribution process takes the In our Distribution markets we not only product all the way from the factory import, distribute and market the brands and brings it to the marketplace.
we represent, but we also retail to all We are deeply involved in brand or part of the network, enabling a far development and innovation with our stronger understanding of customer brand partners, plus we develop the needs and opportunities.
This vertically retail networks marketing and sales integrated retail model delivers strategies for new and existing models, higher margins through the seamless pricing, finance products, servicing, management of the complete value parts and accessories.
chain, including supply and inventory.
This truly customer-centric approach to Distribution enables us to provide a real competitive edge to our brand partners.
Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 6 1 2 2 6 3 5 4 5 1 3 5 Inchcape in the UK Inchcape in Asia Inchcape in the Rest of the World Retail Hong Kong, Macau Chile, Peru Audi, BMW, Ferrari, Ford, Honda, Distribution and Retail Distribution and Retail Jaguar, Kia, Land Rover, Lexus, Maserati, Daihatsu, Hino, Jaguar, Mazda, BMW MINI Mercedes-Benz, MINI, Mitsubishi, Renault, Toyota Lexus Brunei, Ethiopia, Guam and Saipan smart, Toyota, Vauxhall, Volkswagen, Volvo Singapore Distribution and Retail Distribution Distribution and Retail Toyota Lexus Inchcape Automotive, Hino, Suzuki, Toyota Lexus Inchcape Fleet Solutions 6 4 Inchcape in Europe 2 Inchcape in Australasia Belgium and Greece Inchcape in the Emerging Markets Australia Distribution and Retail Balkans Distribution Toyota Lexus Distribution and Retail Subaru Finland Bulgaria, Romania, Macedonia Retail Toyota Lexus Distribution and Retail Hyundai, Kia, Mitsubishi, Subaru, Jaguar, Land Rover, Mazda Baltics Volkswagen Luxemburg Distribution and Retail New Zealand Estonia, Latvia Jaguar, Land Rover, Mazda Distribution and Retail Distribution Lithuania Jaguar, Land Rover, Mazda Jaguar, Toyota Lexus Subaru Russia France Retail Retail Moscow Toyota Lexus opening 2008 Audi, Volkswagen St. Petersburg Toyota Lexus Poland China Retail Retail BMW MINI Shaoxing Toyota opened January 2007 and Lexus opening 2008 Retail We also build scale relationships with Our retail businesses benefit from The focus for our Retail operations our core brand partners where we aspire multiple income streams from the sale is on scale.
to represent around 10% of their network of new and used vehicles, finance and Consolidation in developed in each country.
This provides real insurance products, servicing, parts markets is proving the case for fewer, marketing efficiencies.
a dedicated brand management As our brand partners pursue It provides for an improved customer structure to ensure focus, a better their expansion plans in the high growth experience, creates scale vehicle understanding of our partners brand emerging markets, they look to establish and aftersales activity and promotes values and the establishment of strong and efficient retail operations, investment in good management enduring relationships.
learning from the consolidation activities and infrastructure, which ultimately Our approach to retailing is in more developed countries.
From the generates higher returns.
We aim to create onset they will benefit from fewer, bigger We build scale regionally a differentiated customer experience and better retail sites offering world-class in our markets by channelling our through our Inchcape Advantage retail standards to their customers.
investment into specific geographic programme and, by building on our We are in a leading position to partner areas to provide economic and brand partners customer programmes, them in their growth plans.
