Legal Notices Notice regarding limitations on the liability of Directors under English Law Under the UK Companies Act 2006, the liability of the Directors of Informa plc is limited in respect of statements in and omissions from the Directors Report contained on pages 6 to 60.
Under English law the Directors can be liable to the Company but not to any third party if the Directors Report contains errors as a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but can not otherwise be liable.
Pages 6 to 60 inclusive comprise the Directors Report which has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English law and the potential liability of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by English law.
Notice concerning forward-looking statements This Annual Report and written information released, or oral statements made, in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forwardlooking statements.
Forward-looking statements give the Group's current expectations or forecasts of future events.
An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, will, project, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.
In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results.
The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
The Group warns investors that a number of important factors, including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Risk and Uncertainties on pages 46 to 47 of this Annual Report.
com gives additional information on the Group.
Information made available on the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
Design and Artwork by - www.
co. uk This report is printed on Zanders Mega which is made from 50% recycled fibre, the balance is sourced from fully sustainable forests.
Zanders Mega is totally chlorine free, and has been awarded a Nordic Swan environmental label.
128 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Group Offices Africa Germany USA South America Greece Alexandria VA South Africa Argentina Hungary Alpharetta GE Brazil Ireland Arlington VA Chile Asia Italy Beavercreek OH Mexico China Monaco Boca Raton FL Hong Kong The Netherlands Boston MA United Kingdom India Norway Calabasas CA Indonesia Ashford Poland Charlotte NC Korea Basingstoke Portugal Draper UT Malaysia Colchester Romania Florence KY Philippines Glasgow Spain Grand Rapids MI Singapore Hove Sweden McLean VA Thailand Lancaster Switzerland Memphis TN London USSR Montgomery AL Manchester Australasia New Brighton MI Oxford Australia New York NY Middle East Tunbridge Wells New Zealand Philadelphia PA Bahrain West Byfleet Sarasota FL United Arab Emirates Weybridge Europe Seal Beach CA Seattle WA Austria North America Southfield MI Belgium Canada Sterling VA Czech Republic Ottawa Tampa FL Denmark Toronto Warner Robins GA Finland Winnipeg Washington DC France Westborough MA White Plains NY Leading Global Information Speciali Annual Report and Financial Statemen Mortimer House 37 41 Mortimer Street London, W1T 3JH T 44 0 20 7017 5000 F 44 0 20 7017 4286 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2006
