Directors Remuneration Report continued The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to increase the It is intended that future awards under the PSP will be made.
size of a participants award to reflect the value of reinvested The vesting schedule, performance conditions and comparator dividends that are paid during the vesting period.
This may be group for future awards will be determined at the time but paid as either cash or shares.
The intention of the Remuneration will be stretching.
Committee is to pay this in shares at the end of the three year performance period.
Inmarsat 2005 Restricted Share Scheme the RSS The RSS is intended for the participation of Executive Directors The first awards were made to the Executive Directors and and certain members of management.
The RSS provides for the certain members of management as an allocation in May 2005, award of shares to a participant, which will vest after three years conditional upon the IPO occurring, and the number of shares subject to continued employment.
allocated was based upon the conditional IPO listing price of 2.45 per share.
The Remuneration Committee determined that The RSS was not operated during the financial year to the awards for the Executive Directors would be equivalent to 31 December 2006.
It is not currently anticipated that the RSS 100% of basic salary.
Details of the awards are provided on will be operated in the near term but the Board wishes to retain page 38. the flexibility to operate the RSS in the future if circumstances make it appropriate to do so.
The performance targets applicable to the first award which was made in May 2005, will be determined by reference to the Inmarsat 2005 Executive Share Option Scheme Companys relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance the Executive Scheme against companies within the FTSE 350 index, excluding Under the Executive Scheme, participants may be granted investment trusts, and its EBITDA performance at the end of the market value options.
The Executive Scheme has three parts: three year performance period.
HM Revenue & Customs approved part which will have performance conditions which must be satisfied before the For the performance targets to be met in full and 100% of the options become exercisable: award to vest at the end of the three year period, the Companys an unapproved part which will also have performance relative performance against the TSR must be in the upper conditions: and quartile and have EBITDA growth at or above 7% per annum.
a part to be used to grant options on an all-employee basis, If the relative TSR performance is below the median level or the without performance conditions attached.
EBITDA growth achieved is less than 5% per annum, none of the shares will vest.
30% of the award will vest for median TSR The Executive Scheme was not operated during the financial performance and EBITDA growth of 5% per annum target.
It is not currently anticipated that the is pro rata vesting of shares between median TSR performance Executive Scheme will be operated in the near term but the and a minimum EBITDA growth of 5% per annum target and Board wishes to retain the flexibility to operate the Executive upper quartile TSR performance and EBITDA growth of 7% per Scheme in the future if circumstances make it appropriate to annum.
The parameters of the performance measure should not do so.
be construed as providing any view on the future performance of the Company.
Fees retained for non-executive directorships in other companies In accordance with their service agreements, some Executive Vesting Annualised EBITDA Growth Directors hold positions in other companies as non-executive Fractions Below 5% At 5% 5% to 7% At or above 7% directors.
The fees in this regard relating to the 2006 financial Upper Quartile 75% Pro rata 100% Median to UQ Pro rata Pro rata Pro rata year were as follows: No vesting Median 30% Pro rata 75% Below median No vesting No vesting Company in which non-executive directorship held 2006 Annual Fee The Remuneration Committee believes that the constituents Executive Directors of the FTSE 350 Index excluding investment trusts provide a Rick Medlock THUS plc 30,000 meaningful and sufficiently stretching comparator group against Andrew Sukawaty Xyratex Limited US$185,000 which to measure Company performance, given the lack of Telefnica O2 Europe plc 75,000 direct comparators.
Growth in EBITDA was selected to reflect the Companys primary driver of value.
Powerwave Technologies Inc. US$52,500 These represent full year fees and in 2006, only a proportion of this amount was There are no provisions for the re-testing of performance paid as the Director did not hold the position for a full year.
Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 34 Relative TSR performance
