Share incentives For the bonus award, the Remuneration Committee sets the No new share plans have been proposed since the following annual performance targets in respect of the financial year which were approved by the Board prior to the IPO: relating to the award.
The maximum combined award a participant may receive under the annual cash bonus plan and Inmarsat 2005 Performance Share Plan the PSP the bonus award is currently 200% of salary, except in special Inmarsat 2005 Bonus Share Plan the BSP circumstances, and no more than 100% of salary can be received Inmarsat 2005 Restricted Share Scheme the RSS in the form of cash.
Bonus awards may normally be exercised Inmarsat 2005 Executive Share Option Scheme according to a vesting schedule set by the Remuneration the Executive Scheme Committee.
The Remuneration Committee can determine how dividends paid during the vesting period shall be awarded to An overview of these plans is provided below with details of any participants.
For the award made in March 2006, dividends awards made under each plan to date.
The current intention is accrue in the form of ordinary shares which are added to the that only the PSP and BSP will continue to be operated, with original award of shares and vest over each of the three years the other schemes being operated in the future if and when the when the award vests.
Remuneration Committee considers this to be appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee will review and approve, as The first award under the BSP was made to the Executive appropriate, any future recommendation from management Directors and certain members of management in May 2005 as regarding the operation of and participation in the PSP and BSP.
a bonus award and was conditional upon the IPO occurring.
The value of the bonus award is based on a percentage of the target The Board also adopted the Inmarsat 2005 Sharesave Scheme bonus for each individual being achieved for the 2005 financial the Sharesave Scheme, the Inmarsat 2005 International year.
The allocation of shares was made based upon the midSharesave Scheme and the Inmarsat 2005 Share Incentive Plan market closing price of the Companys ordinary shares following the SIP prior to the IPO.
Details of these schemes are provided the announcement of the 2005 Preliminary Results on 9 March on page 37.
The Executive Directors are eligible to participate 2006.
The annual performance targets relating to revenue, in the Sharesave Scheme and the SIP although they did not operating expenditure and EBITDA performance for the year participate in the SIP award made to employees in 2006 and ended 31 December 2005 were achieved in full and therefore will not participate in the SIP award to be made to employees the maximum bonus awards were made to participating in 2007. employees.
The bonus awards to the Executive Directors, based on a monetary value of 75% of their target bonus, are detailed Inmarsat 2005 Bonus Share Plan the BSP on page 38.
The BSP provides the means by which a part of an employees annual bonus can be delivered in the form of shares, or their On 20 March 2007, the first tranche of shares awarded under the equivalent, and allows a bonus award of shares to be made in BSP vested and included additional shares in respect of accrued addition to a participants cash bonus.
During 2006, an award dividends relating to the final dividend for 2005 and the interim of shares was made to the Executive Directors and selected dividend for 2006.
The remaining shares will vest in March 2008 senior management relating to a monetary award determined and March 2009 and dividends will accrue during this period and in May 2005. be added as additional shares upon vesting.
If a portion of a participants cash bonus is deferred into shares Inmarsat 2005 Performance Share Plan the PSP under the BSP, a matching award up to the value of 50% of an The PSP provides for the award of shares, which vest based on individuals maximum bonus opportunity may also be made, corporate performance measured over a three year period.
The which would vest after three years subject to the attainment PSP is intended for the participation of Executive Directors and of performance conditions determined by the Remuneration certain members of senior management.
Matching awards were not made under the BSP of shares subject to an award to an individual in any financial award made in 2006. year will generally be equal to 100% of annual basic salary as at the award date other than in exceptional circumstances, such as on recruitment where larger awards of up to 200% of annual basic salary may be made.
Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 33
