96 IHG Annual report and financial statements 2006 Investor information Registrar Changes to the base cost of IHG shares For enquiries concerning individual shareholdings and for Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held information on a range of shareholder services please refer to the since April 2003 up to September 2006, for UK Capital Gains Tax Companys Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, at the address shown purposes, may be found on the Companys website at on the opposite page.
com cgt These cover changes associated with: Electronic communication the separation of Six Continents PLC in April 2003: The Company has given e-mail notification, to those shareholders who have requested it, of the availability of this Annual Report and the share consolidation associated with the special Financial Statements, the Annual Review and Summary Financial dividend paid in December 2004: Statement, and the Notice of Annual General Meeting AGM, on the the capital reorganisation of the Group completed Companys website at www.
com shareholders in June 2005: and Shareholders may appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their the share consolidation associated with the special behalf on any poll that may be held at the forthcoming AGM.
Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST may appoint proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service, American Depositary Receipts ADRs by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs and Dividend Reinvestment Plan traded under the symbol IHG.
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Each ADR represents one ordinary share.
All enquiries regarding This provides the opportunity for shareholders to use their cash ADR holder accounts and payment of dividends should be directed dividends to buy more IHG shares.
For further information about to JPMorgan, the authorised depositary bank, at the address the DRIP, please contact our Registrar helpline on 0870 241 3018. shown opposite.
Special dividend and share consolidation 2006 Form 20-F On 22 June 2006, the Company paid a special dividend of 118p The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the per ordinary share to shareholders on the Register at the close of Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US and files business on 9 June 2006.
As approved by shareholders on 1 June with the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The Form 20-F 2006, the special dividend was accompanied by a consolidation of can be found on the Companys website www.
com corporate the Companys share capital, effective from 12 June 2006, whereby or by visiting the SECs website at www.
shtml 3 shareholders received seven new ordinary shares of 11 7p each for every eight existing ordinary shares of 10p each held on 9 June 2006.
Share price information Share price 2006: InterContinental Hotels Group PLC v FTSE 100 1,300 1,200 1,100 1,000 900 800 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Share price FTSE 100 Index Source: Datastream IHG year end share price 03 529p 04 647.5p 05 839.5p 06 1262p pence Investor information and Financial calendar and contacts IHG Useful information 97 Financial calendar Registered office 67 Alma Road 2006 Windsor Payment of special interim dividend of 118p per share 22 June Berkshire Payment of interim dividend of 5.1p per share 5 October SL4 3HD Financial year end 31 December Telephone 44 0 1753 410 100 2007 Fax 44 0 1753 410 101 Preliminary announcement of annual results 20 February For general information about the Final dividend of 13.3p per share Ex-dividend date 21 March Groups business please contact Record date 23 March the Corporate Affairs department Announcement of first quarter results 9 May and for all other enquiries please Annual General Meeting 1 June contact the Company Secretary both at the above address.
Final dividend of 13.3p per share Payment date 8 June Announcement of interim results 14 August Registrar Interim dividend Payment date October Lloyds TSB Registrars Announcement of third quarter results 6 November The Causeway Financial year end 31 December Worthing West Sussex 2008 BN99 6DA Preliminary announcement of annual results February Telephone 0870 600 3957 UK callers 44 121 415 7034 non-UK callers For further investor information visit www.
co. uk For those with hearing difficulties www.
com investors a text phone is available on 0870 600 3950 for UK callers with compatible equipment.
ADR depositary JPMorgan JPMorgan Service Center PO Box 3408 South Hackensack NJ 07606-3408 USA Telephone 1 800 990 1135 toll free 1 201 680 6630 non-US callers Email jpmorganadr@mellon.
com Stockbrokers JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Merrill Lynch International Auditors Ernst & Young LLP Design and production Corporate Edge www.
com Investment bankers Photography VisualMedia Citigroup Print Royle Corporate Print This report is printed on Revive Uncoated, a recycled paper containing 100% Solicitors post consumer collected waste.
Revive Uncoated is manufactured to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001.
Linklaters INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC 67 Alma Road, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 3HD Telephone 44 0 1753 410 100 Fax 44 0 1753 410 101 www.
com Holiday Inn Suva, Fiji make a booking at www.
com INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 67 Alma Road, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 3HD Telephone 44 0 1753 410 100 Fax 44 0 1753 410 101 www.
com Seeing the world InterContinental London Park Lane through your eyes... make a booking at www.
com T T T T I I I I F F F F O O O O R R R R P P P P G G G G N N N N I I I I T T T T A A A A R R R R E E E E m P m P P P m O m O m O O m G G G G 3 9 m m 1 N 9 N N N 9 I I I 1 I 7 3 U 0 U 9 U U 2 6 N 3 N N N 3 1 I 2 3 I 3 I I 5 3 T T T T $ N N $ N N $ $ O O O O C C C C 6 6 5 6 6 5 5 5 Highlights Expect to exceed The hotel company 50,000to 60,000 net rooms growth target that sees the world Continuing operating profit up16% through your eyes...
Final dividend 13.3p, up by 24% Our ambition is to become one of the very best companies in the world.
This will be built on solid foundations: worldwide Total dividend 18.4p hotel brands, a powerful global operating system that drives demand to our hotels and a business model that makes First half dividend 5.1p sound financial sense.
Our aim is to be the number one choice for both hotel owners and guests worldwide, setting high 03 529p standards in the way we behave and achieving continuous 04 647.5p growth in our hotel room numbers and revenues.
839.5p 05 We believe that first impressions count and our new identity 06 1262p makes a great first impression.
It ensures we stand out from IHG year end share price our competitors and reflects the kind of company IHG is today confident, dynamic and right for the times.
Great people build great companies and above all, we are about Hotel disposals 3.0bn proceeds raised people.
Our purpose is to work together to operate an Return of funds to shareholders outstanding portfolio of hotel brands which our guests love.
Thats why whether you are a shareholder, hotel owner, Further 850m announced guest, employee or member of the communities in which 3.6bn in total since 2004 we operate we aim to see the world through your eyes.
Operating profit before other operating income and expenses.
0 0 0 0 0 P S 0 C A 0 0 I U A E F C O M I I R C E R G A E P M A A I S E A H T Front cover photo: view from InterContinental Hotel, Tokyo Bay, Japan IHG annual review and summary financial statement 2006 1 The hotel company that sees the world through your eyes... Our ambition is to become one of the very best companies in the world.
This will be built on solid foundations: worldwide hotel brands, a powerful global operating system that drives demand to our hotels and a business model that makes sound financial sense.
Our aim is to be the number one choice for both hotel owners and guests worldwide, setting high standards in the way we behave and achieving continuous growth in our hotel room numbers and revenues.
We believe that first impressions count and our new identity makes a great first impression.
It ensures we stand out from our competitors and reflects the kind of company IHG is today confident, dynamic and right for the times.
Great people build great companies and above all, we are about people.
Our purpose is to work together to operate an outstanding portfolio of hotel brands which our guests love.
Thats why whether you are a shareholder, hotel owner, guest, employee or member of the communities in which we operate we aim to see the world through your eyes.
Ourbrands We work together to build an outstanding InterContinental Crowne Plaza Holiday Inn Holiday Inn Express Hotels and Resorts Hotels and Resorts Hotels and Resorts 148 275 1,395 1,686 hotels hotels hotels hotels 49,599 75,632 260,470 143,582 rooms rooms rooms rooms 36 60 299 574 hotels in hotels in hotels in hotels in development pipeline development pipeline development pipeline development pipeline Located in major cities Defined as The Place to One of the worlds most A rapidly growing, fresh across 60 countries, our Meet, this premium brand is recognised brands, with and uncomplicated brand, most prestigious hotel brand the ideal choice for executive a global reputation for full offering limited service aims to meet the tastes meetings and business service, comfort and value.
comfort, convenience and of discerning business events.
Mostly located in Holiday Inn continues to good value, where guests and leisure travellers.
This principal cities from Canada expand and evolve globally enjoy smart bedrooms, growing portfolio provides to China, its hallmarks are to provide convenient and contemporary bathrooms outstanding facilities and comfort and service for the productive facilities for and complimentary breakfast.
superior service within the business and leisure traveller, business travellers as well context and culture of each including those who need as memorable holiday hotels unique locality.
quality meetings facilities experiences for families.
portfolio of hotel brands which people love Staybridge Suites Candlewood Suites Hotel Indigo Priority Club Rewards over 97 130 6 31 hotels hotels hotels million members 10,953 14,149 893 rooms rooms rooms the Priority Club Rewards website is available in 120 128 24 11 hotels in hotels in hotels in development pipeline development pipeline development pipeline languages An extended stay premium A carefully designed and An innovative brand, Our award winning loyalty brand that offers guests purpose built hotel created designed for the style programme, the largest a home away from home.
for stays of a week or conscious traveller who reward scheme in the Our hotels provide studios longer with studio and seeks the ambience of a industry, is supported and suites, complete with one bedroom suites, well boutique hotel with the online and through our kitchens and living rooms, equipped kitchens, spacious benefits and consistencies reservations systems, giving workstations and high-speed work areas and an array of a global hotel operation.
our customers unrivalled internet access.
Inspired by lifestyle retailing, incentives and rewards across the US and recently it features inviting service, creating growing revenues launched in the UK.
inspiring artwork, casual for our brands.
restaurants, airy guest rooms and 24 hour business amenities.
2 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Inside Our strategy Where we operate 4 CHAIRMANS 6 GLOBAL OVERVIEW STATEMENT over 1,200 new strong results and hotels in the attractive growth development pipeline opportunities for the first time major shareholder 8 THE AMERICAS returns and dividend strong performance increases across all brands changes to the Board 12 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW faster growth across excellent growth and the region strength in depth 16 ASIA PACIFIC good trading increased revenue and operating profit exceeding our rooms growth target researching the way ahead IHG Inside 3 How we operate Our wider The facts responsibilities and figures 20 OUR BUSINESS 24 CORPORATE SOCIAL 28 SUMMARY MODEL RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENT asset-light with caring about the global a focus on franchise environment and our 32 OUR SENIOR and management local communities LEADERSHIP TEAM public commitment 34 SUMMARY 21 OUR WAY OF DIRECTORS REPORT DRIVING DEMAND strategy and objectives TO HOTELS 35 CORPORATE progress innovative technology GOVERNANCE offering competitive the way ahead 36 SUMMARY advantage and value REMUNERATION for money REPORT 22 OUR IN-DEPTH 40 INVESTOR BRAND INSIGHT INFORMATION what customers 41 FINANCIAL really want CALENDAR AND CONTACTS 23 OUR WINNING WAYS a common set of values to support and drive our growth 4 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Chairmans statement 2006 was the first full year of the new strategy for the business launched by Chief Executive, Andrew Cosslett, in 2005.
It has been a year where the change of focus in our business has delivered strong results, and the growth potential of the business has been demonstrated.
Restructuring We continued to reduce the number of hotels we own during the year.
We sold 31 hotels in Continental Europe, generating proceeds of 680 million before transaction costs, and retained all of them within our brand family under long term contracts.
The proceeds from hotels sold since April 2003 is now 3 billion, leaving us owning approximately 1 billion net book value of hotels real estate.
Shareholder returns We made further returns to shareholders during the year, bringing the total returned since March 2004 to over 2.7 billion.
A further 31 million remains to be returned through our ongoing share buyback programmes.
We are pleased to have announced a further 850 million return of funds, comprising a 150 million share buyback and a 700 million special dividend, with a proposed share consolidation.
The special dividend payment and share consolidation are due to be completed by the end of June 2007, and further details will be sent to shareholders in due course.
Dividend increase As we come to the end of restructuring our capital base, the Board is recommending a significant increase to the final dividend for 2006, taking it to 13.3p per share.
This will give a full year dividend of 18.4p, 20 per cent higher than in 2005.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 8 June 2007 to shareholders registered on 23 March 2007.
Board Richard Hartman, President of our Europe, Middle East and Africa region, EMEA announced during 2006 that he would retire in September 2007, after eight years with the Group.
Richard has done an outstanding job leading EMEA during a period of rapid change.
Sir Howard Stringer has also stood down as a Non-Executive Director, after three years on the Board.
Howard provided wise counsel through IHGs early years.
We thank them both for their service and wish them well for the future.
Outlook The results we achieved in 2006 were the product of exceptional work by our people across the Group.
We have a clear position as the most owner-focused global hotel company, with a deep understanding of what guests want from our hotel brands.
This will allow us to offer our employees and business partners attractive growth opportunities and create further value for shareholders.
Accordingly, we continue to feel confident about the prospects for the Group.
David Webster Chairman Our strategy IHG Our strategy 5 Chief Executives review 2006 was a year of excellent growth for IHG.
The hotel industry as a whole grew strongly, benefiting from trends that will drive demand for hotel rooms for many years.
IHG, through its strong brand family, powerful operating systems that drive demand to our hotels and unmatched global position, outperformed the industry.
Strong trading Continuing operating profit was up 16 per cent, from 173 million to 201 million.
Adjusted continuing earnings per share rose 67 per cent, from 22.5p to 37.5p.
Global revenue per available room RevPAR the industrys main performance measure rose by 9.8 per cent, mainly driven by rate increases.
Our RevPAR growth outperformed the market in each of our seven key profit generating business areas around the world.
Increased rooms growth We made good progress against the three year target we set in 2005 of adding 50,000 to 60,000 net rooms, reaching 125 hotels in China, and adding 15 to 25 InterContinentals by the end of 2008.
We expected to add in the region of 10,000 net rooms in 2006, and in fact added 18,713.
This included 4,937 rooms from IHGs joint venture in Japan with All Nippon Airlines.
This deal makes us the largest international hotel operator in Japan, the worlds second largest hotel market, and we will be building on this position over the coming years.
We further strengthened our market leading position in China.
InterContinental expanded rapidly with 15 hotels opened in the year.
Overall, during 2006 we signed deals for nearly 103,000 hotel rooms, a 47 per cent increase on 2005.
Our pipeline of rooms, already the largest in the industry, increased 46 per cent in the year and now stands at almost 158,000 rooms.
Given this strong level of openings and signings, we now expect to exceed our net rooms growth target by the end of 2008.
Strengthening our business We have been developing plans to help us be better at what we do.
During the year we undertook what we believe to be the biggest market research project involving hotels.
We have looked inside and outside the industry for examples of best practice in franchising so that we can take what is already one of IHGs existing strengths to a new level.
We now have a deeper insight into how our hotel brands can be improved so that they address our guests needs more effectively.
The excellent brand performance in 2006 is very encouraging and suggests that we are on the right track.
These insights and learnings are proving effective in helping us to achieve IHGs business objectives and position us well for stronger performance in the years to come.
In the pages that follow we review the performance of our different regions and Group functions and demonstrate how we are gearing up for growth.
Growth is our goal and we are increasingly well placed to achieve it.
We have a clear strategy, strong position and great people.
Not surprisingly, our outlook remains positive.
Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive Operating profit before other operating income and expenses.
6 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 The worlds largest hotel company... IHG is the worlds largest international hotel company with more guest rooms than any other operator.
Our portfolio of seven brands combines more than 3,700 hotels with 203 million room nights sold each year.
With a global sales team of over 8,000 people, the industrys largest loyalty programme, Priority Club Rewards, websites in 11 languages and 13 central reservations offices, we have a powerful worldwide presence.
For the first time, our development pipeline stands at over 1,200 hotels, equating to more than 150,000 additional rooms around the world.
The Americas development hotels rooms pipeline hotels InterContinental Hotels and Resorts 49 16,525 6 Crowne Plaza 155 42,604 24 Holiday Inn 987 186,067 212 Holiday Inn Express 1,506 123,718 503 Staybridge Suites 97 10,953 115 Candlewood Suites 130 14,149 128 Hotel Indigo 6 893 24 total 2,930 394,909 1,012 3,741 hotels 556,246 rooms Where we operate IHG Where we operate global overview 7 Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East and Africa development development hotels rooms pipeline hotels hotels rooms pipeline hotels InterContinental Hotels InterContinental Hotels and Resorts 33 11,651 20 and Resorts 66 21,423 10 Crowne Plaza 52 16,588 21 Crowne Plaza 68 16,440 15 Holiday Inn 91 23,775 33 Holiday Inn 317 50,628 54 Express by Holiday Inn 8 1,755 12 Express by Holiday Inn 172 18,109 59 Other 4 968 Staybridge Suites 5 total 188 54,737 86 total 623 106,600 143 1,241 hotels in development pipeline l e d o m s s e n i s u b y b s l e t o h 8 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 We raised our game in the drive to become one of the largest fee-earning hotel groups in The Americas.
Our development pipeline now stands at a record high as demand grows for IHG brands in the US, Canada and Latin America.
Relationships grew stronger too, and we saw increased interest from developers, including multibrand partners.
STEVAN PORTER, PRESIDENT, THE AMERICAS The Americas HOLIDAY INN became the official hotel sponsor of Major League Baseball in the US.
Performance highlights Revenue per available room RevPAR increased 9.2 per cent, mainly due to improved rates franchised InterContinental, Crowne Plaza, Holiday Inn, 2,728 Holiday Inn Express and Candlewood Suites each outperformed their market segments, with RevPAR up 10.4 per cent, 10.4 per cent, 7.4 per cent, managed 10.7 per cent and 7.4 per cent respectively 189 Staybridge Suites showed good RevPAR growth, owned & leased 13 with a 7.1 per cent rise S A C I R E M A E H T IHG Where we operate The Americas 9 REVENUE PER Development drive AVAILABLE ROOM Our development pipeline benefited from record growth and we now lead the increased by industry in the US with an 18.1 per cent share of new hotels coming into the worlds largest hotel market.
Across all brands in The Americas we signed 552 hotels 61,673 rooms a jump of 23 per cent over 2005, and 44 per cent of IHGs total global development pipeline.
9.2% During the year we signed four InterContinental Hotels and Resorts, and opened five, in Kansas City, Baltimore, Milwaukee, Panama and Boston.
We now have 49 InterContinental hotels in the region, with a further six in the pipeline.
Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express continued to lead their market segments with 715 hotels in the pipeline.
115 Holiday Inn Hotels and Resorts were signed during the year, with 75 per cent of these being new builds.
Holiday Inn Express continued to open an average of two hotels per week.
A new property in Brooklyn was one of the main highlights of this years openings and brought the brands presence in the State of New York to 29 hotels and 2,862 rooms.
We have more than doubled distribution in Canada in the last 30 months and opened the first Holiday Inn Express in the Dominican Republic during the year.
Crowne Plazas expansion gained momentum, with 24 hotels in the pipeline and 155 existing hotels.
The brand performed over target as the Place to Meet and struck a six-year title sponsorship for The Colonial, Texas PGA Tour Event.
HOTEL INDIGO This brand Candlewood set to double goes from strength to strength, opening three Candlewood Suites celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2006 with a growth plan hotels in 2006 including a that will place it in pole position in the mid scale extended-stay market and nearly US$15 million development on Floridas west coast double its current portfolio.
The brand now has 130 properties opened, with a and launching Interpret further 128 in the pipeline.
Within 17 months of joining IHGs system in 2004, Indigo to attract further it has moved from below par sector performance to impressive RevPAR growth.
During the year, IHG announced plans to expand beyond the US with openings in Toronto and Montreal in 2007, and a further 40 openings throughout the region.
Mexicos first century We made good progress in Mexico, where IHG is the largest franchisor, reaching our 100th hotel opening.
In total we now operate 100 hotels with 16,353 rooms in Mexico, with 41 more hotels in the pipeline 4,484 rooms.
We opened Mexicos first Staybridge Suites in Monterrey and unveiled plans for a second in Puebla.
Holiday Inn Express opened its first hotel in Mexico City, located near the World Trade Centre.
Look Again at Holiday Inn HOLIDAY INN, CIUDAD We launched the Look Again campaign for Holiday Inn.
Research showed that fide MEXICO, MEXICO CITY 2006 was a year of firsts while Holiday Inn is still the worlds most recognised and stayed at hotel, customers in Mexico where we often remember it more for its past heyday, particularly as a place for families.
opened Staybridge Suites in Monterrey and Holiday Inn Express in Mexico City.
IHG is the biggest franchisor in Mexico today.
10 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 FRANCHISE Look Again kicked off in the US during the year.
It includes TV advertising and Holiday Inn and Holiday televised sponsorships with mass market Major League Baseball and the popular Inn Express, together National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing NASCAR Busch Series.
Look account for more than Again stresses Holiday Inns evolution as a modern brand a choice for business guests as well as families.
90% of the franchise E-service system size Holiday Inn rolled out a virtual concierge service eHost to each of its North American properties.
eHost gives guests 24 hour access to information on dining options, attractions, movies, shopping, transport and local events as well as weather and airline information and access via email to the hotels management and staff.
Suites in movie premier Staybridge Suites unveiled prototype interior design plans for 2007 and beyond, including a home theatre and upgraded kitchens, bedding and baths.
HOLIDAY INN CHICAGO Just Like Home Theatre will feature a big-screen TV and quality surround Our latest Look Again sound system, enabling fellow guests to meet for films or sporting events.
advertising promotes Staybridge Suites opened its 97th extended-stay hotel in 2006 and has 115 Holiday Inn as the hotel of choice for business properties in the pipeline.
These include several projects in Indiana, where guests as well as families.
the Staybridge Suites Indianapolis, City Centre, is due to open in early 2008.
Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express continued to lead their market segments and, with 715 Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express hotels in the pipeline, franchisee and hotel owners are confident in the future of the brand.
Interpret Indigo Owner interest in our new Hotel Indigo continued.
Interpret Indigo was launched to attract further development partners by allowing them the freedom to create unique interiors while maintaining the brands hallmarks.
Three new Hotel Indigo properties opened during the year, bringing the total to six.
There are now 24 in the development pipeline in The Americas and 18 in the final negotiation stage.
Freddies honour PCR INTERCONTINENTAL BOSTON Priority Club Rewards was voted top hotel loyalty programme at the travel The flagship industry Freddie Awards in 2006.
It was named Programme of the Year for the InterContinental Boston The Americas and was shortlisted in 15 of the awards categories, including five occupies a premier first place honours.
location on the citys historic waterfront the site of the Boston Tea Party.
IHG Where we operate The Americas 11 INTERCONTINENTAL BOSTON I have had the pleasure of working in Boston for over 30 years.
In my experience, there has never been a better time to launch a full service brand with a contemporary edge in what is now becoming the centre of Boston.
I guarantee that InterContinental Boston will be the envy of the market.
TIMOTHY P KIRWAN, GENERAL MANAGER, INTERCONTINENTAL BOSTON l e d o m s s e n i s u b y b s l e t o h 12 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 It has been a watershed year.
We signed more new deals in 2006 than we have ever done before.
Our brands continue to perform well and, despite recent conflicts, the Middle East continues to be one of the strongest performing regions for the Group.
The reopening of the InterContinental London Park Lane restored this flagship hotel to its former glory.
RICHARD HARTMAN, PRESIDENT, EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa APHRODITE HILLS RESORT, KOUKLIA, CYPRUS A great example of a new InterContinental resort.
Performance highlights Revenue per available room RevPAR increased 12.1 per franchised 439 cent, driven by greater occupancy and room rate growth managed Continental Europe contributed a RevPAR increase of 174 9 per cent, boosted by improved trading in Germany and France In the UK, Holiday Inn and Express by Holiday Inn owned & leased 10 performed in line with market segments A C I R F A d n a T S A E E L D D I M, E P O R U E IHG Where we operate EMEA 13 REVENUE PER InterContinental London Park Lane AVAILABLE ROOM IHGs flagship property, the InterContinental London Park Lane, reopened its increased by doors on 6 November 2006 following a major refurbishment.
With a prime London location close to Buckingham Palace at Number 1 Park Lane, the hotel features 387 guest rooms, 60 spacious suites, a split-level duplex London suite, a new Elemis spa and an entire floor of contemporary meeting space.
12.1% The hotels signature restaurant, Theo Randall, opened to critical acclaim from the national media and guests alike.
Rapid growth in Russia A new development office in Moscow helped to secure potential partnerships in emerging markets across the Russian Federation, especially in Russia and Ukraine.
We increased our presence in Moscow where we signed five new hotels four Holiday Inns and a Crowne Plaza in addition to the 205 room InterContinental Moscow, which is currently under construction.
IHG is becoming the largest international hotel operator in Moscow and is set to have 30 per cent of all branded rooms by mid 2007.
Holiday Inn is the strongest international brand in the City, where Mayor Yuri Buzhkov has publicly HOLIDAY INN, LESNAYA, stated Moscows ambition to open a new hotel every month.
During the year, MOSCOW We strengthened we opened our fourth Holiday Inn in Moscow, a 523 room property next to the our foothold in Moscow Sokolniki Expocentre.
This joins the Holiday Inns Moscow Vinogradovo, Lesnaya with the signing of four Holiday Inns and a Crowne and Suchevsky and the latest Holiday Inn Samara, due to open by mid 2007.
Plaza, as well as a new InterContinental already Eastern promise under construction.
In a year that saw InterContinental Hotels take six awards in the prestigious Business Traveller Middle East Awards including Best Hotel Chain in the Middle East our expansion in the region accelerated.
IHG now has 59 hotels across the Middle East, including three openings during 2006 and a further seven hotels signed to the development pipeline.
In spite of continued conflicts and political unrest in parts, our business remained strong overall, with RevPAR growing 19 per cent on 2005.
During the year, we opened the InterContinental Taba Heights, situated between the Sinai desert and the Red Sea, in Egypt.
IHG now runs 10 hotels in Egypt including seven InterContinentals.
In the United Arab Emirates UAE, we are on schedule to reopen the renovated InterContinental Abu Dhabi and unveil three new properties in Dubai, Festival City, in mid 2007.
The latter new development alone will bring more than 1,000 INTERCONTINENTAL new InterContinental Hotel and Crowne Plaza rooms and residences to Dubai.
TABA HEIGHTS, EGYPT The market continues to favour the luxury sector, but it is changing.
Our mid scale We opened a new hotel brands are attracting increased numbers of developers, and Express by Holiday during the year, affirming the brands recognition Inn has begun to tap a need for branded budget accommodation.
In 2006, we as the Best Hotel Chain broke ground on the UAEs first Express by Holiday Inn at Knowledge Village in in the Middle East.
We also continued Holiday Inns expansion with the opening of the Holiday Inn Sharjah.
14 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 FRANCHISE Luxury in demand Holiday Inn and Holiday The opening of the InterContinental Taba Heights and reopening of the flagship Inn Express, together Park Lane Hotel in London demonstrated continued demand for our premier account for brand.
In October 2006 we also opened the InterContinental Almaty, Kazakhstan, on the rapidly developing oil, gas and mineral rich crossroads of Europe and Asia.
89% Our pipeline of new InterContinental Hotels & Resorts is healthy.
Signed deals of the franchise system size include the imminent Festival City in Dubai and further projects in Moscow, Davos, Kiev, Krems, Bucharest and Dresden.
Swiss investment The InterContinental Davos, Switzerland, due to open in 2010, will join the brands growing Euro-portfolio during the year and will feature for the first time in Europe luxury residential apartments.
Express motors on Express by Holiday Inn remained the fastest growing hotel brand in Europe, EXPRESS BY HOLIDAY INN, with multiple new signings in Portugal, Spain, France and Germany.
VALENCIA, SPAIN Our latest addition strengthens A key signing was for a multi-hotel development with Palminvest SA, increasing Express by Holiday Inn as the brand in Portugal and Northern Spain under franchise agreement, with more the fastest growing hotel than 900 additional rooms in key cities over the next five years.
Two properties are brand in Europe.
already underway: in Porto and Lisbon Airport.
In France we agreed with Cofis Compagnie Fiduciaire SA, Geneva, to build 11 new Express by Holiday Inn hotels over five years.
The first will open at Saint-Nazaire, near Nantes, in late 2007.
In a year that saw InterContinental Hotels & Resorts take six awards in the prestigious Business Traveller Middle East Awards including Best Hotel Chain in the Middle East our expansion in the region accelerated.
Definitive brand A new design Crowne Plaza, which defines the future standards, facilities and ambience of our upmarket business traveller brand, is to be built in the City of Liege, Belgium, under franchise agreement with Royal Selys SA.
Scheduled to open in 2008, it is the sixth in a series of high-specification European Crowne Plaza hotels that, with an expertise in providing meetings and business facilities, are proving popular with owners and franchisees.
Any Hotel, Anywhere HOLIDAY INN SPONSORSHIP OF VAUXHALL A winning Frequent travellers in the UK can now use their Priority Club Rewards to stay partnership, combining at Any Hotel, Anywhere.
strong brand identity with opportunity for sales First launched in the US a year ago, the scheme allows redemption of points growth.
earned at Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express, Crowne Plaza and InterContinental hotels against any IHG hotel worldwide and at selected competitor hotels.
IHG Where we operate EMEA 15 INTERCONTINENTAL LONDON PARK LANE Theo Randall Its an honour to gain nationwide critical acclaim within only three months of opening.
Im looking forward to taking this restaurant from strength to strength in partnership with InterContinental.
THEO RANDALL This restaurant served me the best meal I have eaten all year JAY RAYNER FOR THE OBSERVER It was evening by the time we left, but its a mark of Randalls success that we came very, very close to staying for dinner.
MATTHEW NORMAN FOR THE GUARDIAN, FOLLOWING A VERY LONG LUNCH AT THEO RANDALL l e d o m s s e n i s u b y b 16 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 2006 was a busy year.
We boosted our development pipeline by identifying big opportunities, especially in Japan and China.
We also used the strength of our brands and scale to forge new relationships with quality business partners.
PATRICK IMBARDELLI, PRESIDENT, ASIA PACIFIC Asia Pacific INTERCONTINENTAL HOTEL, TOKYO BAY, JAPAN where IHG is now the largest international hotel operator.
Performance highlights Revenue per available room RevPAR up 10.2 per cent, managed 149 mainly due to improved rates Strong performances from InterContinental, Crowne franchised Plaza and Holiday Inn.
RevPAR up 11.5 per cent, 37 10.3 per cent and 8.5 per cent respectively Greater China RevPAR up 12.1 per cent, due to owned & leased 2 rate increases, with strong demand for IHG brands C I F I C A P A I S A IHG Where we operate Asia Pacific 17 REVENUE PER Big in Japan AVAILABLE ROOM In line with our strategy to expand in major markets, and following a highly increased by competitive business pitch, we signed a partnership deal with All Nippon Airways ANA the worlds seventh largest airline.
We have taken a 75 per cent majority stake in ANAs hotel management subsidiary, ANA Hotels & Resorts, creating IHG ANA Hotels Group the largest international hotel group in Japan.
1 0.2% The deal reflects the importance of Japan as a market where we want to expand significantly.
It is the second largest economy in the world and second largest in terms of tourism and hotel occupancy.
Japan is also the worlds third largest outbound travel market, offering further opportunity for IHG globally.
ANA signed new 15 year management contracts with IHG ANA Hotels Group Japan for 13 owned and leased hotels 4,943 rooms, which have now joined IHGs system, increasing IHGs portfolio in Japan to 25 hotels 8,623 rooms.
Over time, these will become one of three co-brands specially created for Japan ANA-InterContinental, ANA-Crowne Plaza and ANA-Holiday Inn.
The flagship ANA Hotel Tokyo will be the first to co-brand in April 2007 as the ANA-InterContinental Tokyo.
The joint venture will also operate ANA Hotels & Resorts further 18 hotels 4,127 rooms under management contracts and franchise agreements with YOKOHAMA GRAND, TOKYO, third party owners, who are also being offered the opportunity to co-brand.
JAPAN We signed a partnership deal with Developing in China All Nippon Airways ANA, Developing hotels in Greater China where we are the largest international creating the largest international hotel group hotel management company lies at the heart of our growth strategy.
intensive highway, rail and airport development is paving the way for more travel and mobility.
In China, we are seeing a similar trend to the one witnessed in the US in the 1950s, which supported the growth of Holiday Inn.
China will also become the worlds top inbound tourist destination in the next 10 to 15 years, with a forecast 183 million trip nights.
At the same time, trip nights taken by Chinese outbound travellers will grow from 10 million to 100 million.
Holiday Inn was one of the first international hotel brands to establish a presence in China 22 years ago and is now the regions leading hotel brand.
Three further IHG brands have since gained a foothold in this developing market.
China opens doors China hotel debuts in 2006 included the InterContinental Chongqing, Crowne Plaza Fudan Shanghai, Holiday Inn Sea View Qinhuangdao, Crowne Plaza Changshu, Holiday Inn Jasmine Suzhou and Express by Holiday Inn Putuo Shanghai.
This rapid pace of growth saw more than 1,100 Crowne Plaza and Holiday Inn rooms open in June and July alone.
CROWNE PLAZA SHANGHAI During the year, we added 15 hotels to the portfolio of over 50 established hotels One of the many openings in China during 2006, in Greater China.
We also signed a further 39 new hotels and 16,445 rooms.
a year that saw 1,100 In China, we have a target to have 125 hotels open by the end of 2008.
Crowne Plaza and Holiday Inn rooms open in June and July alone.
18 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 A highlight of the year was the landmark management signing with the Chengdu International Exhibition & Convention Group in Sichuan.
The deal is to develop six new hotels more than 4,500 rooms in Chengdu and Jiuzhaigou, including two InterContinentals, three Holiday Inns and one Express by Holiday Inn hotel.
We also signed new management contracts with one of Chinas top three property companies, the Shanghai Greenland Group, to develop four hotels across three brands, InterContinental, Holiday Inn and Express by Holiday Inn.
This includes the InterContinental Nanjing, which at 432 metres high will be the worlds tallest hotel.
Olympic winner IHG will help host the 2008 Olympic Games sailing events with the opening of a new InterContinental in Qingdao, Shandong province, China.
ARTISTS IMPRESSION This new-build waterfront hotel will be part of a complex that incorporates the OF INTERCONTINENTAL Olympic sailing venue.
It will also be the only new hotel to open in Qingdao NANJING, CHINA before the Olympics.
Located in an area known for its colonial European heritage, Qingdao is also a key trading centre and one of Chinas top10 economic and tourist destinations.
In line with our strategy to expand in major markets, and following a highly competitive business pitch, we signed a partnership deal with All Nippon Airways ANA the worlds seventh largest airline.
A breath of fresh air The InterContinental Resort and Thalasso Spa Bora Bora in French Polynesia, beautifully secluded and accessible only by boat, opened in May.
The property features an eco-friendly air-conditioning system fed by a 7,874 ft pipeline, the worlds deepest, running to a depth of 3,000 feet.
The pipe pumps ice-cold deep-sea water through a titanium heat exchanger, transferring it into a fresh water circuit that powers air-conditioning in the hotel.
One of several environmental features at the resort, the system saves 90 per cent of the hotels electricity INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS consumption for air-conditioning, or 2.5 million litres of fuel oil per year.
GROUP ACADEMY A unique initiative responding to the Learning to grow need for talent within the IHG has formed the InterContinental Hotels Group Academy in partnership with Chinese hotel industry.
Shanghai Universitys Advanced Polytechnic and two leading specialist hospitality education providers in Australia the William Angliss Institute and Box Hill Institute.
Offering a programme of certificated learning including theory sessions, lectures by IHG executives and internships with our hotels the Academy aims to address the huge demand for talent in the burgeoning Chinese hotel industry.
Launched in Shanghai in June, the programme will extend to universities across Greater China to help identify and develop future high performers for IHG, and the industry at large, in this fast developing market.
IHG has to find more than 20,000 new people in China alone to support our rapid growth plans over the next few years.
IHG Where we operate Asia Pacific 19 ANA HOTEL TOYKO, JAPAN This hotel occupies an enviable location in the centre of Tokyo, with spectacular 360-degree views of the city.
As the flagship hotel of the ANA portfolio and now part of Japans largest international hotel group, we are excited to be the first to be co-branded an ANA-InterContinental.
SHIN KIYOTA, GENERAL MANAGER, ANA HOTEL TOKYO To be relaunched as ANA InterContinental Tokyo on 1 April 2007 20 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Our business model IHG has an asset-light business model and only owns a small number of hotels.
Our growth now and in the future will focus on franchise agreements and management contracts.
This model allows us to grow quickly using other peoples capital and provides a less volatile, higher quality earnings stream.
By the year end, 85.6 per cent of our hotels were operated under licence by franchisees, 13.7 per cent under management contract with only 0.7 per cent still under our ownership.
Owning, Managing and Franchising how it typically works MARKETING AND BRAND STAFF OWNERSHIP IHG CAPITAL IHG REVENUE DISTRIBUTION OWNED high all revenue IHG IHG IHG IHG AND LEASED IHG supply fee % of total MANAGED IHG IHG general manager third party low none revenue plus as a minimum % of profit fee % of FRANCHISED IHG IHG third party third party none rooms revenue Since embarking on our asset disposal programme in 2003 we have sold 174 owned and leased properties, worth 3 billion.
In all, over 70 per cent of these have been retained under management contract, providing a robust, long-term operating profit stream of around 30 million a year.
IHG now owns just 25 hotels, with a book value of 1 billion, with the majority of this value in our flagship InterContinental hotels in London, Paris, New York, Hong Kong and Atlanta.
Our development pipeline now stands at over 1,200 hotels.
This sets us on course to exceed our growth target of adding 50,000 to 60,000 net and organic rooms by the end of 2008.
I am proud of the model weve built to help members get the most from their investment in building an IHG hotel.
Our mission is to operate an association of IHG branded hotel owners and operators that acts as a channel for information, ideas and best practice between franchisees and IHG executives.
Our goal is to help owners and operators enhance the value of their hotels and their franchises and to help IHG gain the top position in the industry.
Today, the IHG leadership is the best its ever been.
We have a tremendous opportunity to continue this improvement, thanks to a positive business outlook and the excellent relationship between the IAHI and IHG.
Well accomplish this by concentrating on quality and consistency, the two most important ingredients of running a successful hotel.
MIKE C HOFFMAN, CHAIRMAN, IAHI OWNERS ASSOCIATION The IAHI Owners Association represents the interests of nearly 3,000 owners and operators of IHG hotel brands and works with the Group to maintain the highest professional hospitality standards across the world.
How we operate IHG How we operate Our business model and Our way of driving demand to hotels 21 Our way of driving demand to hotels We are building what we call our operating system how we drive demand to our hotels to help fuel our growth.
Information technology plays a crucial role in this.
We aim to make our technology a number one differentiator in the market.
This means providing the right mix of easy-to-use, intuitive products that add value for our hotel owners and better experiences for our guests.
TOM CONOPHY, CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER New team, new vision In 2006, our global team of over 600 IT professionals was restructured under new Chief Information Officer, Tom Conophy.
Their aim is to evolve IHG technology both inside hotels and across the brands to set IHG apart in the hotel market.
Innovative technology offers hotel owners competitive advantage and value for money.
We continue to seek user friendly and more powerful solutions, especially where our employees help guests, such as hotel check-in systems and with online booking services.
In 2006, $5.7bn of rooms revenue was booked through IHGs reservation channels, $11,000 worth of business every minute, and 65,000 hotel bookings every day.
Operating strength IHGs operating system HOTEL DISTRIBUTION BRAND PORTFOLIO LOYALTY PROGRAMME over hotel distribution, brands, reservations systems, priority club rewards over web presence, rewards scheme and other ways 3,741 in which we drive demand to our hotels is the hotels biggest in the industry and the engine of the 7 31 130 business.
Its scale, strength, continued growth BRANDS million members million stays a year and capability will be a key factor in building IHGs WEB PRESENCE REVENUE DELIVERY reputation as the global hotel partner of choice.
com During the year, we continued to work to ensure $5.7bn we compete effectively as we grow, by providing IHG in 2006 technology and support that makes business driving 11 demand sense to owners and franchisees.
$2bn local language websites from online sales Enhancements are being made to our central RESERVATION SYSTEM MARKET POSITION SALES FORCE system to improve our guest information and top communication capabilities of our reservations global sales team 13 platform, Holidex, so that guests can increasingly of more than call centres find stays to fit their specific needs and 3 preferences more accurately and quickly.
This 8,000 700 position in initiative will also provide us with more knowledge 6 of 12 largest markets transactions a minute about our guests, helping to offer facilities, rates and promotions that suit them best and increase revenue to the business.
22 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Our in-depth brand insight In 2006, we focused on gaining real insight into our customers and using our knowledge to differentiate our brands through innovation, communications and an improved booking experience.
PETER GOWERS, CHIEF MARKETING OFFICER Research We carried out one of the largest ever hotel research studies, talking to 14,000 customers in major hotel markets, including the US, China, UK, France, Germany and Japan, about their lives, travel needs and perceptions of hotels.
The insights we obtained now influence everything we do.
Brand differentiation Our research confirmed that customers for luxury hotels seek new experiences when they travel, aspiring to see and do things that widen their knowledge and perspective.
With this in mind, in the year that marked 60 years of InterContinental Hotels & Resorts, we looked ahead rather than back.
INTERCONTINENTAL LONDON We modernised our customer offer, upgraded our image and opened iconic new PARK LANE This newly and renovated hotels in Boston and London.
renovated hotel is already Each of our mainstream brands, Crowne Plaza, Holiday Inn, Express, Staybridge benefiting from the new brand positioning and and Candlewood continued their programmes of colleague training and added identity.
further hotels to extend their reach.
In the emerging boutique sector, we added more hotels to our Hotel Indigo brand, the first ever design-led select service hotel for the mass market.
We now have 6 hotels open and a further 24 in the development pipeline.
Communications As an antidote to the bland hotel advertising campaigns that dominate the market, in 2006 we sought new ways to reach our customers with distinctive advertising and sponsorships that reinforce our brand image with customers and our reputation with hotel owners.
Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express returned to significant national television advertising in the US.
InterContinental entered into partnership with Aston Martin Racing to support the team as it bids for renewed glory at the Le Mans 24-hour race.
Holiday Inn became the official hotel sponsor of Major League Baseball in the US and a key partner for motor racing teams in the NASCAR Busch series THE HOLIDAY INN and the British Touring Car Championship.
Crowne Plaza added to its presence SPONSORSHIP OF NASCAR in golf, already well established via the Crowne Plaza Open in China, by adding IN THE US The sponsorship the new Crowne Plaza Colonial PGA tournament in the US.
deal has proved to be extremely popular with Improved booking experience Our central reservations offices handled over both hotel guests and our 25 million telephone calls in 2006.
Guests can now book online using our business partners.
websites in 11 languages with the addition of Portuguese and Korean.
With 31 million members, Priority Club Rewards was also voted the worlds best hotel reward programme.
IHG How we operate Our in-depth brand insight and Our Winning Ways 23 Our Winning Ways Our global agenda for growth is dependent on engagement and high performance from everyone within IHG.
We have improved how we work together and built a common set of values our Winning Ways.
These new ways of working will support and drive our growth.
TRACY ROBBINS, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, GLOBAL HUMAN RESOURCES Charter for growth To support the IHG growth agenda we need to recruit around 700 general managers and in the region of 70,000 more colleagues over the next two to three years.
Our aim is to integrate human resources activities which continue to be managed locally using a collaborative global approach.
Throughout the year we achieved many goals.
The development and launch of IHGs Winning Ways was the most significant they will act as the foundation for everything we do.
Winning Ways define how we work and are fundamental to improving our relationships with guests, colleagues and hotel owners.
They define our culture as a world leading hotel company.
Our Winning Ways have been rolled out across the Group and our progress against these will be measured through our employee survey mechanism.
Our Five Winning Ways Do the right thing We aim to do what we believe is right and have the courage and conviction to put it into practice.
We are honest and straightforward and see our decisions through.
Show we care We want to be a company that understands peoples needs better than anyone else in our industry.
This means being sensitive to others, noticing the things that matter and taking responsibility for getting things right.
Aim higher We aim to be acknowledged industry leaders, and have built a team of talented people who have a will to be the best.
We strive for success and we value individuals who are always looking for better ways to do things.
Celebrate difference We believe it is the knowledge of our people that brings our brands to life.
We do not impose a rigid, uniform view of the world.
Our global strength comes from celebrating local differences, while knowing that some things should be the same.
Work better together We are at our best when we collaborate to form a powerful team.
We listen to each other and combine our expertise to create a strong, focused, supportive and trusted team of people.
Reputation rise IHG moved up 61 places in Management Todays Most Admired Companies top 500 league, taking 31st place and the industrys premier position.
In China, the Corporate Research Foundation named IHG top employer in the Shanghai region in 2006.
24 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Corporate social responsibility IHG is now well placed to implement its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR strategy across the business.
During 2006, we undertook significant work, appointed a new Senior Vice President to lead on CSR and, after discussion with the Board, decided to concentrate on the global environment and our local communities.
RICHARD WINTER, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE SERVICES We are working to integrate our CSR policies into our management systems.
We want CSR to underpin the way we conduct our business.
To realise this ambition, we made important strategic and organisational changes during 2006 and are now in a better position to build on this progress in the years ahead.
Our actions are guided by our values the Winning Ways set out on page 23.
These are explained to everyone who works for IHG.
They define the character of the Group and are, above all, the things that set us apart as a business.
Public commitment KEY INTERNATIONAL PARTNERS We are committed to building a strong culture of CSR and to meeting our global obligations as one of the worlds leading international hotel businesses.
We recognise that the test of our commitment is the way we behave everyday, at every level in each of our hotels and in the 100 different countries in which we operate.
Our business decisions have a direct impact on society.
We affect many people when, for instance, we advise on the location, design standards and materials for the construction of our hotels, choose local business partners and suppliers, recruit and train our staff and talk with and serve our customers.
We are also aware that CSR must be approached as a continuous and thorough process if it is to strengthen its hold in the business.
We have made good progress with the five priorities set out last year in our 2005 Annual Review, as shown in the table opposite.
Our achievements to date provide us with a firm footing for further progress in 2007.
Our wider responsibilities IHG Our wider responsibilities Corporate social responsibility 25 Charting the course Progress against strategy and objectives Issue 2005 Annual Review priority objective 2006 action status Dialogue Conduct a thorough internal Completed and external stakeholder analysis Ethics and values Review our business ethics policy Completed see our website www.
com corporate Data and reporting Review the way we gather Continuing and report data Environmental Develop a Group-wide Continuing INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE More than 340,000 people practice environmental practice work in hotels within our Strategy Develop the CSR strategy, Strategy developed.
We are communicate and implement Implementation in proud of our rich, cultural diversity and are committed progress to lifelong training to help all of our staff achieve their full potential.
Progress in 2006 Stakeholder analysis Much of our work in 2006 was designed to gather internal and external stakeholder feedback and information, through meetings, one-to-one interviews and consumer research.
We extended the benchmark study commissioned from  to compare our CSR activities and performance against our main competitors, and against other companies who are recognised as leaders in this field.
Constructive feedback from suppliers also helped us to achieve a better understanding of our comparative performance and we gained a clearer picture of our risks and the potential opportunities, to enable us to do more in areas that our external stakeholders care about.
We also talked extensively with hotel owners and colleagues, conducting an online survey of employee attitudes, which is produced in 32 languages.
This gained a response rate of 77 per cent in 2006, up 4 per cent on 2005.
Ethics and values In 2006 we defined and published an update to IHGs values and desired ways of working and launched a number of programmes for our colleagues to improve their understanding of our corporate values our Winning Ways.
We revised our Code COMMUNITY INVESTMENT of Ethics and Business Conduct and made this publicly available on our website.
We seek to support our An updated confidential whistle blower hotline for employees was introduced.
Executed We also completed our annual business-wide assessment of major risks and sensitively, these submitted this to the Executive Committee, Audit Committee and Board for review.
campaigns benefit both the brand and the charity.
Human rights Many IHG brands work on community related IHG respects and supports the principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration investments.
All members of the Executive Committee take responsibility for human rights on behalf of the Board.
Our employment policies are designed to comply with all local labour laws.
26 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Environmental initiatives We have a wide range of environmental responsibilities and a unique opportunity to lead the worlds hospitality industry in environmental innovation.
As we pursue our strategic growth and continue to develop our environmental practice, we aim to minimise our negative effects on the environment.
We are committed to providing updated information to stakeholders on: developments in global environmental policy: how we establish management responsibility and accountability INTERCONTINENTAL THALASSO SPA, BORA BORA for environmental performance: The building specifications how we evaluate and manage our hotels environmental footprint: included the worlds deepest underwater new projects and developments: and pipeline, feeding cold sea performance benchmarking against best practice.
water to an eco-friendly air-conditioning system In 2006 we improved data collection and reporting to increase our energy see page 18.
Our hotels already take steps to conserve resources, including energy saves 90% of the hotels electricity consumption for and water, and to manage waste and recycling effectively.
In 2007, we intend to air-conditioning, or 2.5m benchmark these achievements across our business so that we can set clear litres of fuel oil per year.
As part of our environmental commitment, we We are a founder member of the International Hotels Environment Initiative transported building IHEI and have worked closely with others in the industry to produce the materials only when Sustainable Hotel Siting, Design & Construction Guidelines, launched by tidal conditions allowed shipments to be made The Prince of Wales International Business Leaders Forum.
We continue to without damage to the refine and improve this effort and are complementing this work with better coral reef.
and more comprehensive employee training on how to manage hotels in an environmentally responsible way.
Health and safety We apply high standards of health and safety equally to all employees and guests.
The Group strives to provide and maintain a safe environment for all employees, customers and other visitors to its premises and to comply with relevant health and safety legislation.
In addition, all Group companies are responsible for: protecting the health of employees with suitable, specific work-based strategies: CLIMATE CHANGE The Willard InterContinental Hotel in minimising the risk of injury from company activity: Washington, D. C. recently ensuring that sufficient resources and information are made available and awarded a contract to Pepco Energy Services suitable management systems are in place to address health and safety to supply renewable matters: and electricity, from wind power, to the hotel.
During involving employees in a formal process of continuous improvement in health 2006, we also piloted and safety matters, reporting and review.
energy efficiency training Compliance with Group policy is monitored and audited centrally and health in 10 hotels in Europe and with all our European and safety reports are included within the bi-annual risk management reports Engineers as part of produced for the Board.
a drive to raise staff awareness of our responsibility to the environment.
IHG Our wider responsibilities Corporate social responsibility 27 CSR leadership In September 2006 we created the new role of Senior Vice President with responsibility for developing and implementing the Groups CSR policies and practices.
This position reports directly to Richard Winter in his capacity as the IHG Executive Committee member responsible for the development of our global CSR strategy.
A comprehensive review of IHGs current position on CSR was undertaken and a revised strategy was considered and approved by the Board in December 2006.
WATER CONSERVATION Our global Conserving The agenda ahead for Tomorrow programme helps to save 6,000 gallons Strategic and operational objectives for 2007 of water and 40 gallons of detergent per month Following research throughout 2006, we now have a much better understanding for each average sized of our main risks and opportunities.
Our immediate priorities for action are 100 bedroom hotel.
environmental management and support for the communities in which we operate.
The travel and tourism industry is coming under increasing pressure to address its impact on the environment and society and become more sustainable.
We must address this challenge as a priority.
We are building a culture at IHG thats focused on producing strong returns for our owners while creating shared social benefits in the communities we are part of.
ANDREW COSSLETT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE We believe that travel and tourism should be operated responsibly and that the benefits of taking this approach far outweigh the costs.
Tourism provides opportunities for local economic development, new business and much needed jobs, especially in developing countries.
It also opens the door to improved learning, better communication, greater diversity and richer, more fulfilling social experiences.
We accept that there are actions that hotel operators can take to minimise travel and tourisms negative effects still further.
We will be launching several new SUPPORTING OUR initiatives in 2007 and will encourage our owners and guests to support these COMMUNITIES activities.
During 2006 we raised $3,588,305 million for We will continue to concentrate our efforts on supporting local communities charitable causes worldand seek to develop protocols to assess the responsible management of our wide, including cash supply chain.
We focused these efforts Addressing our risks and opportunities in a cohesive way has required us to on the priority areas of develop a more integrated CSR strategy one that is consistent with our Winning investment in the welfare Ways.
We have created a global team, representing all parts of our business, of children, health, education, diversity, to manage our CSR agenda and to develop detailed future plans.
Our reporting systems will also be strengthened in 2007 so that we can collect better data and set ourselves appropriate performance targets.
We will also be publishing our first dedicated CSR report, alongside our Annual Report and Financial Statements, at the end of the year.
com corporate includes detailed information about our CSR activities in 2006.
28 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Summary financial statement The financial results for 2006 were strong all around the world.
Adjusted earnings per share from our continuing business increased by 67% to 37.5p and the full year dividend was increased by 20% to 18.4p.
We sold 31 hotels in Continental Europe during the year for 680m before transaction costs and 755m was returned to shareholders through share buybacks and a special dividend.
RICHARD SOLOMONS, FINANCE DIRECTOR This Summary Financial Statement SFS provides not maintained throughout the second half of the year.
In a commentary on the performance of the Group for the owned and leased portfolio comparable RevPAR growth the financial year ended 31 December 2006. of 12.2% was achieved at InterContinental hotels, however, the reported profit was impacted, as expected, by the 3m Significant developments $6m loss at the recently opened InterContinental Boston.
During the year, IHG achieved further progress with its asset Operating profit in the managed operations increased by disposal programme including the Continental European 35.0% as a result of positive hotel trading and expansion portfolio sales of 24 hotels for which 15 year franchise in the portfolio.
In the franchised operations, revenue and contracts were retained and seven InterContinental hotels for operating profit increased by 13.1% and 11.8% respectively, which 30 year management contracts were retained.
In total, reflecting average RevPAR growth of 9.2% across all brands, the two transactions generated 680m in proceeds before a 4% increase in the number of franchised rooms and growth transaction costs and support IHGs continued strategy of in fees generated from record levels of new room signings.
growing its managed and franchised business whilst reducing In EMEA, revenue from continuing operations of 206m asset ownership.
was 3.0% ahead of 2005 whilst continuing operating profit In 2006, IHG paid a 497m special dividend, completed a before other income and expenses increased by 16.1% second 250m share buyback and substantially completed to 36m.
The EMEA results include an 8m loss reported a third 250m share buyback.
Since March 2004, IHG has at the InterContinental London Park Lane following the returned 2.7bn to shareholders.
substantial completion of a major refurbishment: the hotel is expected to be fully operational by Spring 2007.
Across the IHG has announced a further 850m return of funds, managed and franchised operations, strong RevPAR growth comprising a 700m special dividend with share consolidation was achieved in IHGs hotels in Continental Europe and the and a 150m share buyback.
Middle East and the operations also benefited from the retention of contracts on disposed hotels and organic Group and regional trading expansion.
Excluding the 2005 benefit of 7m in liquidated Revenue from continuing operations increased by 12.9% to damages for the termination of franchise contracts in South 805m and continuing operating profit increased by 16.2% Africa, total operating profit in the managed and franchised to 201m during the 12 months ended 31 December 2006. operations increased by 22% or 11m.
EMEA also reported The growth was driven by a combination of strong industry record level room signings during the year, driven by demand fundamentals in all three of IHGs regions, RevPAR premiums for Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express in the UK, Continental to market for most of IHGs brands and continuing expansion Europe and South Africa, and for all brands in the Middle East in hotel and room count.
As a result of the Groups asset and Russia.
disposals during the year, total operating profit before other operating income and expenses decreased by 31.9% to In Asia Pacific, continuing revenue and operating profit 231m during 2006. increased by 27.6% to 111m and 38.1% to 29m respectively during 2006.
The owned and leased results benefited from In The Americas, revenue and operating profit from continuing robust trading at the InterContinental Hong Kong which operations increased by 12.8% to 433m and 16.7% to 217m achieved rate-led RevPAR growth in excess of 30%.
Underlying trading performance also benefited from the prior year repositioning of its food across all ownership types was strong, although the pace and beverage operations.
Operating profit from managed of RevPAR growth achieved in the first half of the year was operations increased by 31.2%, due to the retention of The facts and figures IHG The facts and figures Summary financial statement 29 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and OF INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other We have examined the Groups Summary Financial Statement for information contained in the Annual Review and Summary the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprises the income Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report statement, cash flow statement and balance sheet.
This report is if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
We with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest extent conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 required by the law, we do not accept or assume responsibility The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions Kingdom.
In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is we have formed.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the consistent with the full financial statements, Directors Report Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, in accordance and Directors Remuneration Report of InterContinental Hotels with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2006 and complies opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement with Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
the full financial statements, Directors Report and Directors Ernst & Young LLP, Registered Auditor, London 19 February 2007 Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant management contracts on disposed hotels combined with strong The Board has proposed a final dividend per share of 13.3p: underlying trading in Greater China, where comparable RevPAR with the interim dividend of 5.1p, the normal dividend for 2006 increased by 12.1% over 2005.
Regional overheads in Asia Pacific will total 18.4p.
increased as a result of infrastructure and development costs The net movement in cash and cash equivalents in the 12 months associated with ongoing expansion in the region.
to 31 December 2006 was an outflow of 152m.
This included net Net central costs increased by 16m to 81m and included cash inflows from operating activities of 230m, net cash inflows significant investment in new global research, designed to enable from investing activities of 620m and net cash outflows from higher quality brand development and enhance IHGs franchising financing activities of 1,002m.
capability: the increase also included higher IT infrastructure costs.
Proceeds from the disposal of hotels and other financial assets totalled 744m.
Capital expenditure totalled 124m and included a Other operating income and expenses, major refurbishment at the InterContinental London Park Lane and interest and taxation the completion of a rooms refurbishment programme at the Other operating income and expenses of 27m includes the gain InterContinental Hong Kong.
on the sale of the Groups investment in FelCor Lodging Trust, Inc. Cash outflows associated with shareholder returns during the year Other operating income and expenses are treated as special items included a special dividend of 497m and share buybacks of 260m.
by reason of their size or incidence and are excluded from the calculation of adjusted earnings per share in order to provide a Net debt at 31 December 2006 was 134m.
In November 2006, more meaningful comparison of performance.
the InterContinental Boston opened: this hotel is operated under a finance lease and the lease commitment of 97m is therefore Net financing costs decreased from 33m in 2005 to 11m in 2006, included within Group borrowings.
primarily as a result of significantly lower average debt levels in the year 92m in 2006 compared with 700m in 2005. Financing costs included 10m 2005 5m of interest costs associated with Priority Club Rewards where interest is charged on the accumulated balance of cash received in advance of the redemption points awarded.
The increase over 2005 arises from growth in the scheme membership and higher interest rates.
Financing costs in This Summary Financial Statement was approved by the Board 2006 also included 4m in respect of the InterContinental Boston on 19 February 2007 and signed on its behalf by Richard finance lease.
The prior year costs included 9m in respect of the Solomons.
It does not contain sufficient information to provide discontinued Soft Drinks business.
as complete an understanding of the Groups results and state of affairs as that provided in the Annual Report and Financial The effective rate of tax on profit before tax, excluding the impact Statements 2006.
That report may be obtained, free of charge, of special items, was 24%.
The gain on disposal of assets, net by completing the relevant section of the enclosed Form of Proxy of related tax, totalled 117m in 2006 and primarily comprised and returning it to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
the gain on the sale of seven European InterContinental hotels.
The auditors have issued an unqualified report on the financial Earnings per share, dividends, treasury statements containing no statement under Section 237 2 Basic earnings per share in 2006 were 104.1p, compared with or 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
Adjusted earnings per share were 42.9p, against Information concerning Directors emoluments is shown 38.2p in 2005.
Adjusted continuing earnings per share were 37.5p, on pages 36 to 39.
30 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Summary financial statement 12 months ended 31 December 2006 12 months ended 31 December 2005 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Income statement operations operations Total operations operations Total m m m m m m Revenue Hotels: Americas 433 30 463 384 61 445 EMEA 206 125 331 200 411 611 Asia Pacific 111 111 87 54 141 Central 55 55 42 42 Total Hotels 805 155 960 713 526 1,239 Soft Drinks 671 671 805 155 960 713 1,197 1,910 Operating profit Hotels: Americas 217 4 221 186 12 198 EMEA 36 26 62 31 73 104 Asia Pacific 29 29 21 11 32 Central 81 81 65 65 Total Hotels 201 30 231 173 96 269 Soft Drinks 7070 201 30 231 173 166 339 Other operating income and expenses 27 27 22 22 Operating profit 228 30 258 151 166 317 Net financial expense 11 11 24 9 33 Profit before tax 217 30 247 127 157 284 Tax 50 9 41 24 56 80 Profit after tax 267 21 288 103 101 204 Gain on disposal of assets, net of tax 117 117 311 311 Profit for the year 267 138 405 103 412 515 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 267 138 405 103 393 496 Minority equity interest 1919 Profit for the year 267 138 405 103 412 515 Earnings per ordinary share pence : Basic 68.6p 35.5p 104.1p 19.8p 75.4p 95.2p Adjusted 37.5p 42.9p 22.5p 38.2p Dividend per share pence : Final paid in respect of prior year 10.7p 10.0p Interim paid 5.1p 4.6p Special interim paid 118.0p Final proposed for approval at AGM 13.3p 10.7p IHG The facts and figures Summary financial statement 31 12 months ended 31 December Cash flow statement 2006 2005 m m Cash flow from operations 288 423 Net interest paid 9 30 Tax paid 49 91 Net cash from operating activities 230 302 Capital expenditure 124 183 Proceeds from disposal of operations and other financial assets 744 2,046 Dividends paid 562 258 Payment as a result of capital reorganisation 996 Purchase of own shares 260 207 Decrease in borrowings 172 442 Other financing movements 8 3 Net movement in cash and cash equivalents 152 259 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 324 72 Exchange rate effects 7 7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 179 324 31 December Balance sheet 2006 2005 m m ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 997 1,356 Goodwill 109 118 Intangible assets 154 120 Investment in associates 32 42 Other financial assets 96 113 Total non-current assets 1,388 1,749 Inventories 3 3 Trade and other receivables 237 252 Current tax receivable 23 22 Cash and cash equivalents 179 324 Other financial assets 13 106 Total current assets 455 707 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 50 279 Total assets 1,893 2,735 LIABILITIES Loans and other borrowings 10 2 Trade and other payables 402 468 Current tax payable 231 324 Total current liabilities 643 794 Loans and other borrowings 303 410 Employee benefits 71 76 Trade and other payables 109 107 Deferred tax payable 79 210 Total non-current liabilities 562 803 Liabilities classified as held for sale 2 34 Total liabilities 1,207 1,631 Net assets 686 1,104 IHG shareholders equity 678 1,084 Minority equity interest 8 20 Total equity 686 1,104 32 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Our senior leadership team Back row from left to right: Patrick Imbardelli, Tom Conophy, Richard Winter, Tracy Robbins, Jonathan Linen, Richard Solomons, Stevan Porter, Richard Hartman, Peter Gowers, Robert C Larson and Sir David Prosser.
Front row from left to right: David Kappler, David Webster, Andrew Cosslett, Ralph Kugler and Jennifer Laing.
David Webster Non-Executive Chairman Richard Solomons Finance Director Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in April 2003.
Appointed Finance Director since April 2003.
Appointed a Director in April 2003, he is Non-Executive Chairman in January 2004.
Responsible for corporate and regional President, Unilever Home and Personal Care, Also Non-Executive Chairman of Makinson finance, Group financial control, asset and joined the Boards of Unilever plc and Cowell Limited.
Formerly Chairman of management, strategy and corporate Unilever NV in May 2005.
Chairman of the Nomination development, investor relations, tax and Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director Committee.
Appointed a Director in August 2005, she Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive Richard Hartman President, EMEA has over 30 years experience in advertising Appointed Chief Executive in February 2005.
Appointed an Executive Director in April 2003. and is currently Associate Dean, External He joined the Group from Cadbury Responsible for the business development Relations at London Business School.
She Schweppes plc where he was most recently and performance of all the Hotel brands and also serves as a Non-Executive Director President, Europe, Middle East & Africa.
properties in the EMEA region.
He will retire of Hudson Highland Group Inc. Age 59.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Duchy from the Group in September 2007.
Robert C Larson Non-Executive Director Originals Limited.
Stevan Porter President, The Americas Appointed a Director in April 2003, he is David Kappler Senior Independent Appointed an Executive Director in April 2003. a Managing Director of Lazard Alternative # Non-Executive Director Appointed a Responsible for the business development Investments LLC and Chairman of Lazard Director and Senior Independent Director in and performance of all the Hotel brands and Real Estate Partners, LLC.
He is Non-Executive Chairman properties in The Americas region and for Non-Executive Director of Six Continents PLC of Premier Foods plc and a Non-Executive development of best practice in franchising, formerly Bass PLC from 1996.
Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
IHG The facts and figures Our senior leadership team 33 A Non-Executive Director and a member A member of the Executive Committee # An independent Non-Executive Director of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Audit, Remuneration An independent Non-Executive Director and Nomination Committees An independent Non-Executive Director and a member of the Remuneration and and a member of the Audit and Nomination Nomination Committees Not a main Board Director Committees Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director Tom Conophy Executive Vice President Patrick Imbardelli President, Asia Pacific Appointed a Director in December 2005, he and Chief Information Officer He joined He joined the Group in 2000 and was was formerly Vice Chairman of the American the Group in February 2006 from Starwood appointed Managing Director, Asia Pacific Express Company.
He also serves on the Hotels & Resorts International.
Responsible for the business Board and Executive Committees of a number for global technology including IT systems development and performance of all the of US companies and Councils.
Age 63. and information management throughout Hotel brands and properties in the the Group.
# Sir David Prosser Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in April 2003, he Peter Gowers Executive Vice President Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, was formerly Group Chief Executive of and Chief Marketing Officer He joined Global Human Resources She joined the Legal & General Group Plc.
Appointed Chief Marketing Group in December 2005 from Compass Non-Executive Director of Investec plc.
Officer in 2005, with responsibility for Group PLC.
Previously Group HR Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
worldwide brand management, reservations, for Forte Hotels Group.
Responsible for Age 62. e-commerce, global sales, relationship and global talent management and leadership distribution marketing and loyalty development, reward strategy and Richard Winter Executive Vice President, programmes.
Corporate Services, General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed Company Secretary of the Group in 2000.
Responsible for corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, risk management, insurance, internal audit, data privacy, company secretariat and Group legal matters.
34 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Summary Directors report Activities of the Group Directors The principal activities of the Group are in hotels and resorts with Details of current Board members are shown on pages 32 and 33. franchising, management, ownership and leasing interests in over Robert C Larson, Sir David Prosser, Richard Solomons and David 3,700 establishments, with over 556,000 guest rooms in nearly 100 Webster are standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting countries and territories around the world.
All the Executive Directors have service contracts.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The A review of the performance of the Group is contained in the Group maintains insurance cover for its Directors and officers, Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the as permitted by the Companies Act 1985. business reviews presented on pages 4 to 19 and in the Summary Financial Statement on pages 28 to 31.
Employees IHG employed an average of 11,456 people worldwide in the year Significant disposals during the year ended 31 December 2006.
The Group is committed to providing During 2006, the Group substantially completed its hotels disposal them with equality of opportunity, without discrimination.
Great programme, with the sale of 31 hotels in Continental Europe.
emphasis is placed on employee communications, particularly on matters relating to the Groups business and its performance.
Return of shareholders funds and share consolidation During 2006, the Company completed a 250m share repurchase Ethics and business conduct programme and commenced a further 250m share repurchase Following a review of existing internal policies and guidelines, programme which is substantially complete.
Additionally, 497m the Board has adopted a new global Code of Ethics and Business was returned to shareholders by way of a special interim dividend Conduct.
This consolidates and clarifies expected standards of of 118p per share.
This special dividend was accompanied by a behaviour and communicates the ethical values of the Group.
The consolidation of the Companys ordinary share capital on the basis Code is available on the Companys website www.
com corporate of seven new ordinary shares for every eight existing ordinary shares, effective from 12 June 2006.
The nominal value of the Details of the Groups charitable, community, environmental, and 3 new shares is 11 7p per share.
socially responsible activities and policies are provided on pages 24 to 27.
IHGs Corporate Social Responsibility activities are also Results and dividends published in more detail on the website www.
com corporate The profit on ordinary activities before taxation was 247m.
In addition to the special dividend referred to above, an interim Charitable donations dividend of 5.1p per share was paid on 5 October 2006.
The During the year, the Group donated 925,000 in support of Directors are recommending a final dividend of 13.3p per share community initiatives and charitable causes, including donations to be paid on 8 June 2007 to shareholders on the Register at in kind.
No payments were made for political purposes.
close of business on 23 March 2007.
Going concern Future returns of shareholders funds The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 The Directors intend to initiate a further 150m share repurchase have been prepared on a going concern basis.
programme as soon as practicable and to return a further 700m to shareholders during the second quarter of 2007 by way of a Auditors special interim dividend and, subject to shareholder approval, The Directors confirm that they have taken steps to make an accompanying share consolidation.
themselves aware of relevant audit information.
None of the Directors is aware of any relevant audit information which has Share repurchases not been disclosed to the auditors.
During the year, 28,409,753 ordinary shares were purchased and The reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the cancelled at a cost of 258,353,705 excluding transaction costs Company will be put to members at the Annual General Meeting.
under IHGs planned share repurchase programmes.
The share buyback authority remains in force until the Annual General Annual General Meeting Meeting in 2007, and a resolution to renew the authority will The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11.00am be put to shareholders at that Meeting.
on Friday, 1 June 2007 is contained in a circular, which is sent to shareholders with this Review.
Share capital At 31 December 2006, the Companys issued share capital 3 consisted of 356,116,049 ordinary shares of 11 7p each.
IHG The facts and figures Summary Directors report and Corporate governance 35 Corporate governance Combined Code compliance Company Secretary The Board is committed to compliance with the principles set out All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and considers that Secretary.
His duties include responsibility for advising the Board the Company has complied with Code requirements throughout the on corporate governance, and for ensuring good information flows year ended 31 December 2006. to the Board and its Committees and between senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
As required for a Company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, a statement outlining the differences between IHGs corporate Shareholder relations governance practices and those followed by US companies may The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year and be found on the Companys website at www.
com investors releases quarterly results.
In addition, regular meetings are held with major institutional shareholders to discuss progress of the Internal control business, its performance, plans and objectives.
The Chairman, The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order are available to meet with major shareholders to discuss governance to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the and strategy, and to understand any issues and concerns.
procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
The Annual General Meeting provides an additional useful opportunity to meet private shareholders.
Information of interest For the year ended 31 December 2006, the Board has conducted to investors is also maintained on the Companys website a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
com corporate The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Summary Audit Committee report misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion The Audit Committee, which is chaired by a financial expert, of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective assists the Board in observing its responsibilities in relation to or unsatisfactory.
the integrity of the Groups financial statements and associated announcements, the adequacy of internal control and risk Board and Committees management systems and the appointment and work of the The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic internal and external auditors.
The external auditor and the direction, development and control of the Group.
It also ensures Head of Internal Audit both have the opportunity to meet that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for privately with the Committee.
the Group to meet its objectives.
There are eight regular Board All proposals for the provision of non-audit services by the meetings a year and further meetings as needed.
David Webster external auditor are pre-approved by the Audit Committee or was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the year.
its delegated member, the overriding consideration being to A team of six experienced independent Non-Executive Directors ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impact represents a strong source of advice and judgement.
The role of the external auditors independence and objectivity.
David Kappler, the Senior Independent Director, includes being During the year, the Committees deliberations included a wide available to liaise with shareholders who have issues to raise.
range of matters addressing all its main areas of responsibility.
Induction programmes are prepared for new Directors and Particular consideration was given to the development and ongoing training needs for all Directors are kept under review.
adoption of a new Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for the In addition to the Executive Committee, the following main Group and to the Groups approach to fraud risk management.
Committees of the Board have been established: Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
The Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees consist wholly of Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of the Nomination Committee only.
The terms of reference of these Committees were reviewed during 2006 to ensure that they continue to reflect best practice, and are available on the Companys website www.
com corporate or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
A performance evaluation of individual Directors, the Board and its Committees was undertaken shortly after the year end.
This concluded that each Director continues to make an effective contribution to the work of the Board, and retains a strong commitment to the role.
The reviews of the Board and each Committee concluded that these are operating in an effective manner.
36 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Summary remuneration report Introduction For 2007, the target bonus is 90% of salary.
A minimum of 55% The Summary Remuneration Report is an extract of information of this is payable in shares and deferred.
Matching shares may from the full Remuneration Report contained in the Annual also be awarded up to half the total deferred amount.
Share awards Report and Financial Statements 2006, a copy of which is available will normally be released at the end of the three years following on request and can be viewed on the Companys website at deferral.
The Remuneration Report will be put Performance restricted shares The Performance Restricted Share to the vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Plan aims to encourage continuing improvement in the Groups performance over the longer term, through the award of shares The Remuneration Committee normally made annually subject to the satisfaction of a The Committee advises the Board on overall remuneration policy performance condition, measured over three years.
and determines on behalf of the Board, with the benefit of advice from external consultants and internal Human Resources Generally, a separate performance cycle will commence each year, professionals, the remuneration of the Executive Directors and at the end of which the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR other members of the Executive Committee.
is measured against a comparator group of competitor companies.
Graded awards are made for median performance or better.
For Remuneration policy 2006 08, the cumulative annual growth CAGR in the number of Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, have letters rooms within the IHG system over the performance period is also of appointment.
They are paid fees approved by the full Board taken into account.
For 2007 09, half of the award will be based on the recommendation of the Executive Directors.
on TSR and half on growth in adjusted earnings per share over the period.
For Executive Directors and for senior executives, the following policy has applied throughout the year and, except where stated, Executive share options These do not presently form part of the will apply in future years, subject to ongoing review.
No executive share options were granted in 2006.
For options granted in prior years, a performance The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that remuneration condition has to be met before these can be exercised.
packages have the ability to attract and retain high quality executives in a highly competitive global environment and to Share ownership Executive Directors are expected to hold all reward achievements that are aligned with business objectives.
shares earned net of any share sales required to meet personal tax The Committee also has regard to internal levels of remuneration liabilities from the Groups remuneration plans while the value of and to salary levels in the wider employment market.
their holding is less than twice their base salary or three times in the case of the Chief Executive.
The Group has performance-related reward policies, designed to provide the appropriate balance between fixed remuneration and Contracts of service The Remuneration Committees policy is for variable risk reward.
The normal policy for Executive Directors Executive Directors to have rolling contracts with a notice period of is that using target or expected value calculations, their 12 months.
All Executive Directors contracts were fully compliant performance-related incentives will equate to approximately 70% with the Committees policy throughout 2006. of total annual remuneration excluding pensions and benefits.
Pension arrangements Executive Directors participate in the In addition to base salary, the main components of remuneration are: relevant Group pension schemes either in the UK or in the US.
Annual performance bonus Challenging performance goals are Performance graph Throughout the year, the Company was a set and these must be achieved before the target bonus becomes member of the FTSE 100 index.
The following graph measures payable.
These goals include both personal objectives and targets the TSR performance of the Company against that achieved by linked to the Groups financial and operational performance.
Total Shareholder Return: InterContinental Hotels Group PLC v FTSE 100 IHG shares listed 15.4.
03 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Oct 2001 Oct 2002 Jan 2004 Jan 2005 Jan 2006 Jan 2007 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Total Shareholder Return Index FTSE 100 Total Shareholder Return Index Source: Datastream Six Continents PLC up to 14 April 2003 Mean average index for the month October 2001 100 IHG The facts and figures Summary remuneration report 37 Directors emoluments The emoluments shown below represent salary, fees and cash bonuses excluding bonus awards paid in shares and tax assessable benefits and allowances.
Total emoluments excluding pensions Base salaries Performance 1.1.
2 With effect from 1 January 2007, David Webster is paid an annual fee of 390,000.
3 With effect from 1 January 2007, David Kappler is paid a total annual fee of 95,000, reflecting his roles as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
4 With effect from 1 January 2007, an annual fee of 60,000 is payable to each of Ralph Kugler, Jennifer Laing, Robert C Larson and Jonathan Linen.
All fees due to Ralph Kugler are paid to Unilever.
5 With effect from 1 January 2007, Sir David Prosser is paid a total annual fee of 80,000, reflecting his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
6 Sir Howard Stringer resigned as a Director on 10 November 2006.
7 Sir Ian Prosser retired as a Director on 31 December 2003.
However, he had an ongoing healthcare benefit of 1,027 during the year.
Long-term reward Executive share options In 2003, Directors and other executives with outstanding options under the Six Continents Executive Share Option Schemes were permitted to roll over those options into options of equivalent value over IHG shares.
In 2003, 2004 and 2005, grants of options were made under the IHG Executive Share Option Plan.
Directors executive share options held at 31 December 2006 are summarised as follows: Weighted Executive Exercised Executive average 3 options held during options held option price 1 2 Directors at 1.1.
2 Exercisable between April 2007 and April 2015, subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition.
3 The weighted average option price of executive share options held at 31 December 2006.
38 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Summary remuneration report Short term deferred incentive plan STDIP Messrs Cosslett, Hartman, Porter and Solomons participated in the STDIP during the year ended 31 December 2006, and are expected to receive an award on 26 February 2007.
Directors pre-tax interests during the year were: STDIP STDIP Value shares shares based awarded vested on share STDIPduring Marketduring Market STDIPprice of shares the year price per the year price per Value at shares 1262.0p at held at 1.1.
06 to Vesting share at vesting held at 31.12.06 Directors 1.1.
06 853.67p 61,688 778,505 Total 119,729 1,510,984 1 This special award was made to Andrew Cosslett as part of his overall recruitment terms.
The shares vest in equal portions on the first and second anniversary of the award date, subject to his continued employment until that time.
The first half of the award vested on 3 April 2006.
2 This award was based on financial year 2004 performance where the performance measures were related to earnings per share EPS, earnings before interest and tax EBIT and personal performance.
Total Shares held include matching shares.
3 This award was based on financial year 2005 performance and the bonus target was 50% of base salary.
Andrew Cosslett was awarded 70% of his bonus target for EPS performance, 69.4% of his bonus target for Group EBIT performance and 45% of his bonus target for his personal performance.
Andrew Cossletts total bonus was therefore 184.4% of his bonus target.
One matching share was awarded for every two bonus shares earned.
4 This award was based on financial year 2005 performance and the bonus target was 50% of base salary.
Richard Hartman was awarded 70% of his bonus target for EPS performance, 46.2% of his bonus target for EMEA EBIT performance and 30% of his bonus target for his personal performance.
Richard Hartmans total bonus was therefore 146.2% of his bonus target.
5 This award was based on financial year 2005 performance and the bonus target was 50% of base salary.
Stevan Porter was awarded 70% of his bonus target for EPS performance, 64.4% of his bonus target for The Americas EBIT performance and 45% of his bonus target for his personal performance.
Stevan Porters total bonus was therefore 179.4% of his bonus target.
6 This award was based on financial year 2005 performance and the bonus target was 50% of base salary.
Richard Solomons was awarded 70% of his bonus target for EPS performance, 69.4% of his bonus target for Group EBIT performance and 45% of his bonus target for his personal performance.
Richard Solomons total bonus was therefore 184.4% of his bonus target.
7 These share interests were in InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 10p ordinary shares prior to the share consolidation effective from 12 June 2006.
For every 3 eight existing InterContinental Hotels Group PLC shares held on 9 June 2006, shareholders received seven new ordinary shares of 11 7p each and 118p per existing ordinary share.
As a consequence, shares held at 31 December 2006 have been reduced accordingly.
8 The value of Stevan Porters shares at vesting includes 17,037 that was chargeable to UK income tax.
IHG The facts and figures Summary remuneration report 39 Performance restricted share plan PRSP In 2006, there were three cycles in operation and one cycle which vested.
The awards made to Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2006 in respect of the performance cycles ending on 31 December 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 and the maximum pre-tax number of shares due if performance targets are achieved in full are set out in the table below.
For the cycle ending on 31 December 2006, the Company finished third in the TSR group and achieved ROCE growth of 98.2%.
Accordingly, 62.4% of the award will vest on 21 February 2007.
Maximum Maximum Expected PRSP PRSP value value shares shares based based Maximum awarded vested Maximum on share on share PRSP during Market during Market Actual PRSP price of price of shares the year price per the year price per Value at planned shares 1262.0p at 1262.0p at held at 1.1.
06 to share at vesting vesting held at 31.12.06 31.12.06 Directors 1.1.
09 128,470 1,621,292 Total 450,010 5,679,127 1 This award was based on performance to 31 December 2005 where the performance measure related to both the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR against a group of 11 other comparator companies and growth in return on capital employed ROCE.
The number of shares released was graded, according to a where the Company finished in the TSR comparator group, with 50% of the award being released for first or second position and 10% of the award being released for sixth place: and b growth in ROCE, with 50% of the award being released for 80% growth and 10% of the award being released for 30% growth.
The Company finished in fifth place in the TSR group and achieved ROCE growth of 46%.
Accordingly 42.8% of the award vested on 3 March 2006.
2 This award is based on performance to 31 December 2006 where the performance measure relates to both the Companys TSR against a group of eight other comparator companies and growth in ROCE.
The number of shares released is graded, according to a where the Company finishes in the TSR comparator group, with 50% of the award being released for first or second position and 10% of the award being released for fifth place: and b growth in ROCE, with 50% of the award being released for 141.6% growth and 10% of the award being released for 70% growth.
3 This award is based on performance to 31 December 2007 where the performance measure relates to both the Companys TSR against a group of eight other comparator companies and the relative cumulative annual growth rate CAGR of rooms in the IHG system.
4 This award is based on performance to 31 December 2008 where the performance measure relates to both the Companys TSR against a group of nine other comparator companies and the relative CAGR of rooms in the IHG system.
5 The value of Stevan Porters shares at vesting includes 44,404 that was chargeable to UK income tax.
Pensions UK plans final salary The increases in transfer value over the year less Directors contributions and accrued pensions at the year end were: Directors Age at 31.12.06 Increase in transfer value Accrued pension at 31.12.06 Andrew Cosslett 51 300,100 43,800 Richard Hartman 60 85,900 94,700 Richard Solomons 45 223,900 143,800 US and International plans defined contribution The Company contributions made in respect of Richard Hartman and Stevan Porter during the year were 183,100 and 85,800 respectively.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Registered Office, contains full details of all Directors shareholdings and share interests, including those held by spouses and other connected persons.
40 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 Investor information Registrar Sharegift Enquiries concerning individual shareholdings and notification of The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share a holders change of address should be referred to the Companys donation scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, at the address shown on the the value of which makes them uneconomic to sell.
be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars or the ShareGift website www.
org or by calling ShareGift on 020 7337 0501.
Electronic communication The Company has given e-mail notification, to those shareholders Special dividend and share consolidation 2006 who have requested it, of the availability of this Annual Review and On 22 June 2006, the Company paid a special dividend of 118p Summary Financial Statement, the Annual Report and Financial per ordinary share to shareholders on the Register at the close of Statements and the Notice of Annual General Meeting AGM, on business on 9 June 2006.
As approved by shareholders on 1 June the Companys website at www.
The website 2006, the special dividend was accompanied by a consolidation of contains a link to enable shareholders to register for future the Companys share capital, effective from 12 June 2006, whereby 3 electronic communication, view details of their own shareholding shareholders received seven new ordinary shares of 11 7p each for or appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their behalf on any poll every eight existing ordinary shares of 10p each held on 9 June 2006. that may be held at the forthcoming AGM.
Changes to the base cost of IHG shares Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST may appoint Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service, since April 2003 up to September 2006, for UK Capital Gains Tax for the Companys forthcoming AGM, by using the procedures purposes, may be found on the Companys website at described in the CREST manual.
com cgt Share dealing services These cover changes associated with: Lloyds TSB Registrars offer a postal dealing facility for IHG shares, the separation of Six Continents PLC in April 2003: telephone 0870 242 4244.
They also offer a telephone and internet the share consolidation associated with the special dealing service, Shareview, which provides a simple and convenient dividend paid in December 2004: way of buying and selling shares.
For telephone dealings call the capital reorganisation of the Group completed 0870 850 0852 between 8.00am and 4.30pm Monday to Friday, in June 2005: and and for internet dealings log on to www.
co. uk dealing the share consolidation associated with the special Individual Savings Accounts ISAs dividend paid in June 2006.
Lloyds TSB Registrars offers ISAs in IHG shares.
Further information may be obtained from the address shown opposite, American Depositary Receipts ADRs or through the helpline, telephone 0870 242 4244.
The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs and Dividend services traded under the symbol IHG.
For further information about to JPMorgan, the authorised depositary bank, at the address shown the DRIP, please contact our Registrar helpline on 0870 241 3018. opposite.
ADR holders wishing to view their balance and a range of A DRIP application form is available on the Companys website general information about holding ADRs should visit www.
com investors under Shareholder Services Dividends.
Dividend payments to ADR holders are made in US dollars by the Shareholders who would like their dividends to be paid directly authorised depositary bank.
Payment of the final dividend for the into a bank or building society account or who wish to amalgamate year ended 31 December 2006 will be made on 8 June 2007 to their shareholder accounts in order to avoid duplicate mailing of holders of record on 23 March 2007.
ADR holders should consult shareholder communications should contact the Registrar at their tax advisers with respect to the US tax treatment of dividends.
JPMorgan administer a dividend reinvestment and direct purchase Share price information plan for IHG ADRs, known as the Global Invest Direct Plan.
You can The latest share price is available in the financial press, on Ceefax access Global Invest Direct through www.
com shareholder and and Teletext and also on the Financial Times Cityline Service, click on Direct Purchase.
Form 20-F The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US and files with the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The Form 20-F can be found on the Companys website www.
com corporate or by visiting the SECs website at www.
shtml 40 IHG Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 IHG The facts and figures Investor information and Financial calendar and contacts 41 Investor information Registrar Sharegift Summary forward-looking statement Registered office Enquiries concerning individual shareholdings and notification of The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement contains certain 67 Alma Road a holders change of address should be referred to the Companys donation scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, forward-looking statements as defined under US legislation Section 21E of the Windsor Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, at the address shown on the the value of which makes them uneconomic to sell.
Details can Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
By their nature, such statements involve uncertainty: Berkshire opposite page.
be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars or the ShareGift website as a consequence, actual results and developments may differ materially from those SL4 3HD www.
org or by calling ShareGift on 020 7337 0501. expressed in or implied by such statements.
A more detailed explanation of the risks Telephone 44 0 1753 410 100 Electronic communication and uncertainties related to forward-looking statements is set out on page 95 of the Fax 44 0 1753 410 101 The Company has given e-mail notification, to those shareholders Special dividend and share consolidation 2006 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006, copies of which are available from the For general information about the who have requested it, of the availability of this Annual Review and On 22 June 2006, the Company paid a special dividend of 118p Registered Office of the Company.
Groups business please contact Summary Financial Statement, the Annual Report and Financial per ordinary share to shareholders on the Register at the close of the Corporate Affairs department Statements and the Notice of Annual General Meeting AGM, on business on 9 June 2006.
As approved by shareholders on 1 June and for all other enquiries please the Companys website at www.
The website 2006, the special dividend was accompanied by a consolidation of Financial calendar contact the Company Secretary contains a link to enable shareholders to register for future the Companys share capital, effective from 12 June 2006, whereby 2006 both at the above address.
3 electronic communication, view details of their own shareholding shareholders received seven new ordinary shares of 11 7p each for Payment of special interim dividend of 118p per share 22 June or appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their behalf on any poll every eight existing ordinary shares of 10p each held on 9 June 2006.
Payment of interim dividend of 5.1p per share 5 October Registrar that may be held at the forthcoming AGM.
Financial year end 31 December Lloyds TSB Registrars Changes to the base cost of IHG shares Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST may appoint The Causeway Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held 2007 proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service, Worthing since April 2003 up to September 2006, for UK Capital Gains Tax Preliminary announcement of annual results 20 February for the Companys forthcoming AGM, by using the procedures West Sussex purposes, may be found on the Companys website at Final dividend of 13.3p per share Ex-dividend date 21 March described in the CREST manual.
com cgt Record date 23 March Telephone 0870 600 3957 Announcement of first quarter results 9 May Share dealing services These cover changes associated with: UK callers Lloyds TSB Registrars offer a postal dealing facility for IHG shares, Annual General Meeting 1 June 44 121 415 7034 non-UK callers the separation of Six Continents PLC in April 2003: telephone 0870 242 4244.
They also offer a telephone and internet www.
co. uk Final dividend of 13.3p per share Payment date 8 June the share consolidation associated with the special dealing service, Shareview, which provides a simple and convenient Announcement of interim results 14 August dividend paid in December 2004: For those with hearing difficulties way of buying and selling shares.
For telephone dealings call Interim dividend Payment date October a text phone is available on the capital reorganisation of the Group completed 0870 850 0852 between 8.00am and 4.30pm Monday to Friday, Announcement of third quarter results 6 November 0870 600 3950 for UK callers in June 2005: and and for internet dealings log on to www.
co. uk dealing Financial year end 31 December with compatible equipment.
the share consolidation associated with the special Individual Savings Accounts ISAs dividend paid in June 2006.
2008 ADR depositary Lloyds TSB Registrars offers ISAs in IHG shares.
Further Preliminary announcement of annual results February JPMorgan information may be obtained from the address shown opposite, American Depositary Receipts ADRs JPMorgan Service Center or through the helpline, telephone 0870 242 4244.
The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange PO Box 3408 in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs and South Hackensack For further investor information visit Dividend services traded under the symbol IHG.
NJ 07606-3408 The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
All enquiries regarding USA This provides the opportunity for shareholders to use their cash www.
com investors ADR holder accounts and payment of dividends should be directed Telephone 1 800 990 1135 toll free dividends to buy more IHG shares.
For further information about to JPMorgan, the authorised depositary bank, at the address shown 1 201 680 6630 non-US callers the DRIP, please contact our Registrar helpline on 0870 241 3018. opposite.
ADR holders wishing to view their balance and a range of Email jpmorganadr@mellon.
com A DRIP application form is available on the Companys website Priority Club Rewards general information about holding ADRs should visit www.
If you wish to enquire about, or to join Priority Club Rewards, IHGs loyalty programme Dividend payments to ADR holders are made in US dollars by the for frequent travellers, please go to www.
com or telephone: Shareholders who would like their dividends to be paid directly Stockbrokers authorised depositary bank.
Payment of the final dividend for the into a bank or building society account or who wish to amalgamate JPMorgan Cazenove Limited 44 0 870 607 2582 from Europe, Middle East and Africa : year ended 31 December 2006 will be made on 8 June 2007 to their shareholder accounts in order to avoid duplicate mailing of Merrill Lynch International holders of record on 23 March 2007.
ADR holders should consult 1 888 211 9874 from US and Canada : shareholder communications should contact the Registrar at their tax advisers with respect to the US tax treatment of dividends.
Auditors 1 801 975 3013 from Central and South America : JPMorgan administer a dividend reinvestment and direct purchase Ernst & Young LLP 63 2 857 8788 from Asia Pacific.
Share price information plan for IHG ADRs, known as the Global Invest Direct Plan.
com shareholder and Investment bankers Design and production Corporate Edge www.
com and Teletext and also on the Financial Times Cityline Service, click on Direct Purchase.
Citigroup Photography VisualMedia telephone 0906 003 1772 or 0906 843 1772 calls charged at 60p Print Royle Corporate Print per minute.
Form 20-F Solicitors The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the This report is printed on Revive Uncoated, a recycled paper containing 100% Linklaters post consumer collected waste.
Revive Uncoated is manufactured to the certified Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US and files environmental management system ISO 14001. with the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
shtml INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC Annual review and summary financial statement 2006 67 Alma Road, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 3HD Telephone 44 0 1753 410 100 Fax 44 0 1753 410 101 www.
