94 IHG Annual report and financial statements 2006 Glossary Adjusted excluding the effect of special items, IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
gain loss on disposal of assets and any Interest rate swap an agreement to exchange fixed for floating relevant tax.
interest rate streams or vice versa on a Average daily rate room revenue divided by the number of notional principal.
Also known as average Management contract a contract to operate a hotel on behalf of room rate.
Basic earnings per share profit available for IHG equity holders Market capitalisation the value attributed to a listed company by divided by the weighted average number of multiplying its share price by the number ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Capital expenditure cash expended on purchases of property, Midscale hotel a hotel in the three four star category plant and equipment and purchases of e. g. Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express.
intangible assets, associates and other financial assets.
Net debt borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Cash-generating unit a portfolio of similar assets that are subject Occupancy rate rooms occupied by hotel guests, expressed to the same economic and commercial as a percentage of rooms that are available.
Operating margin operating profit before other operating Comparable RevPAR a comparison for a grouping of hotels that income and expenses expressed as a have traded in all months in both financial percentage of revenue.
Principally excludes Pipeline signed executed agreements, including new hotels, hotels closed for major franchises and management contracts, for refurbishment and hotels sold in either hotels which will enter the Groups system of the two years.
Contingent liability a liability that is contingent upon the Revenue per room revenue divided by the number of occurrence of one or more uncertain available room room nights that are available can be future events.
RevPAR mathematically derived from occupancy Continuing operations operations not classified as discontinued rate multiplied by average daily rate.
and including acquisitions made during Room count number of rooms owned, managed the year.
Currency swap an exchange of a deposit and a borrowing, Room revenue revenue generated from the sale of each denominated in a different currency, room nights.
for an agreed period of time.
Royalty rate the percentage of room revenue that a Derivatives a financial instrument used to reduce risk, franchisee pays to the brand owner for the price of which is derived from an use of the brand name.
underlying asset, index or rate.
Special items items which are disclosed separately Discontinued operations operations that have been sold and assets because of their size or incidence.
classified as held for sale when the results relate to a separate line of business, Subsidiary undertaking a company in which the Group holds an geographical area of operations, or where equity stake and over which it exercises there is a co-ordinated plan to dispose of control.
a separate line of business or geographical System size the number of hotels rooms owned, area of operations.
managed or franchised by IHG.
Extended-stay hotel a hotel designed for guests staying for Total gross revenue total room revenue from franchised hotels periods of time longer than a few nights and and total hotel revenue from managed, tending to have a higher proportion of suites owned and leased hotels.
than normal hotels e. g. Staybridge Suites, Candlewood Suites.
Total shareholder the theoretical growth in value of a return TSR shareholding over a period, by reference to Franchisee operator who uses a brand under the beginning and ending share price, and licence from the brand owner assuming that gross dividends, including e. g. IHG.
special dividends, are reinvested to Franchisor brand owner e. g. IHG who licenses brands purchase additional units of the equity.
Upscale hotel a four five star full-service hotel Gearing net debt expressed as a percentage of IHG characterised by superior service shareholders equity.
e. g. InterContinental, Crowne Plaza.
Goodwill the difference between the consideration UK GAAP United Kingdom generally accepted given for a business and the total of the fair accounting practice.
values of the separable assets and liabilities Weighted average the average of the monthly exchange comprising that business.
exchange rate rates, weighted by reference to monthly Hedging the reduction of risk, normally in relation to operating profit.
foreign currency or interest rate movements, Working capital the sum of inventories, receivables and by making offsetting commitments.
payables of a trading nature, excluding Holidex fees charges to hotels under management and financing items such as corporate taxation.
franchise agreements for the use of Holidex, IHGs proprietory reservation system.
