!-P Independent auditors report to the members of Interserve Plc age Head !-Page Head Secondary We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Interserve Plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 which We conducted our audit in accordance with International comprise the Company balance sheet and the related notes 37 Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing to 52.
These parent company financial statements have been Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an We have reported separately on the Group financial statements assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by of Interserve Plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 and on the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial the information in the Directors remuneration report that is statements, and of whether the accounting policies are described as having been audited.
appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Companys members those matters we are required to state to order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the assurance that the parent company financial statements are free fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, In our opinion: the Directors remuneration report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the parent company financial statements give a true and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Directors Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys responsibility statement.
affairs as at 31 December 2006: Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial the parent company financial statements have been properly statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK the information given in the Directors report is consistent and Ireland.
with the parent company financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors report is Deloitte & Touche LLP consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 12 March 2007 not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual report.
