Parent company accounting policies Basis of accounting Borrowing costs These accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The policies are consistent with the previous year, except for the Debt instruments adoption of the following: Borrowings are stated at net proceeds received after deduction of a FRS 20, Share-based payment: issue costs.
The issue costs of debt instruments are amortised over b FRS 21, Events after the balance sheet date: the life of the instrument using the effective interest rate method.
c FRS 25, Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation: and d FRS 26, Financial instruments: measurement.
Taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that The adoption of FRS 20 has resulted in changes in accounting have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where policy for share-based payment transactions as detailed below.
transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in FRS 20 requires that the fair value of options and shares awarded to an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the employees is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting future, with the following exceptions: period.
The Company previously accounted for share-based payment i provision is made for tax on gains arising from fair value transactions under UITF 17 which did not require any charge to be adjustments of fixed assets or gains on disposal of fixed assets that recorded in respect of share options.
There has been no impact on have been rolled over into replacement assets only to the extent shareholders funds at 31 March 2005 resulting from the adoption that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to of this policy.
dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet Adoption of FRS 21 means that proposed dividends that are not date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled declared before the balance sheet date cannot be accrued as a over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the liability at the year end.
There has been no impact on shareholders replacement assets are sold: funds at 31 March 2005 resulting from the adoption of this policy ii provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance as the Company has no recorded dividends in that year.
of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, There is no impact with respect to the Company adopting FRS 25 dividends have been accrued as receivable: and and FRS 26. iii deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable Foreign currencies taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling can be deducted.
at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet All exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account date.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Share-based payment Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits The Company operates various equity-settled and cash-settled share For defined benefit plans, the service cost of providing retirement schemes.
For equity-settled share options, the services received benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating profit from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the or loss in the year.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date using the benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and recognised in the profit and projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The full cost of loss account, together with a corresponding increase in providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service is also shareholders equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, charged to operating profit or loss in the year.
The expected return based on an estimate of the number of options that will eventually on the assets of the schemes during the year based on the market vest.
Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken value of scheme assets at the start of the financial year is included into account when estimating the fair value.
Market conditions are within other finance charges FRS 17.
This also includes a charge those conditions that are linked to the share price of the Company.
representing the expected increase in liabilities of the schemes during the year, arising from the liabilities of the scheme being one For equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is calculated year closer to payment.
Differences between actual and expected based on the share price at the grant date and, where applicable, returns on assets during the year are recognised in the statement any market vesting conditions, and expensed over the vesting period of recognised gains and losses in the year, together with differences based on the number of shares expected to vest.
No expense is from changes in assumptions.
The net surplus or deficit on defined recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, with the benefit pension schemes is reported on the balance sheet within the exception of awards where vesting is conditional upon a market pension asset or liability.
This is net of related deferred tax.
condition: these are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit performance conditions are met.
and loss account in respect of pension costs is the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in For cash-settled share awards, the services received from employees the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as accruals are measured at the fair value of the liability and recognised in the or prepayments in the balance sheet.
profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting Investments in subsidiary undertakings date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair value Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less recognised in the profit and loss account.
provisions for impairment where a permanent diminution in value has been identified.
112 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006
