Independent auditors report to shareholders of Invensys plc We have audited the Parent company financial statements the Basis of audit opinion Company financial statements of Invensys plc for the year ended We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 31 March 2006 which comprise the Company balance sheet, on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Accounting policies and the related Notes 1 to 13.
These Company An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant financial statements have been prepared under the accounting to the amounts and disclosures in the Company financial statements policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Company financial We have reported separately on the Group financial statements statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2006. to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys information and explanations which we considered necessary in members those matters we are required to state to them in an order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent assurance that the Company financial statements and the part permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to of the Remuneration report to be audited are free from material anyone other than the Company and the Companys members misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of we have formed.
the presentation of information in the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, the Opinion Remuneration report and the Company financial statements in In our opinion: accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting as set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2006: the Company financial statements and the part of the Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements and Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the information given in the Directors report is consistent with Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company financial Ernst & Young LLP statements give a true and fair view and whether the Company Registered Auditor financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to London be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the 24 May 2006 Companies Act 1985 and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Company financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Company financial statements.
This other information comprises the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, Business review, Corporate social responsibility statement, Board of directors, Corporate governance statement, unaudited part of the Remuneration report, Statement of directors responsibilities, Financial summary, listing of Principal subsidiaries as at 31 March 2006 and Shareholder information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatement or material inconsistencies with the Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
110 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006
