Accounting policies Statement of compliance The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as goodwill.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are items of income and expense that are material The financial statements have been presented in accordance with and relevant to an understanding of the Groups financial IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements.
Where IAS 1 does not performance and may be operating or non-operating in nature.
provide definitive guidance on presentation, for example in relation Such items are presented separately on the face of the income to aspects of the income statement, the Group has adopted a statement and analysed in the Notes to the financial statements.
format consistent with previous UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP requirements.
Foreign currencies The presentation currency of the Group and functional currency Basis of preparation of Invensys plc is sterling.
This is the first year in which the Group has prepared its financial statements under IFRSs and the comparatives have been restated The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries from UK GAAP to comply with IFRSs.
The Group issued a press and associates are prepared using their functional currency.
release on 19 May 2005 setting out its preliminary IFRS financial The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic statements for the year ended 31 March 2005. environment in which an entity operates.
The principal effects of changing from UK GAAP to IFRS, including Foreign currency transactions reconciliations between the IFRS and UK GAAP financial information, Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange are set out in note 34 to these financial statements.
rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
The accounting policies which follow set out the policies that have Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet ended 31 March 2006.
Where the Group has applied different date.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in the income policies for part of the period since its transition to IFRSs on 1 April statement unless: 2004, this is explained in note 34. a the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form the The significant measurement bases applied in preparing the financial hedging instrument in a cash-flow hedging relationship that qualifies statements are explained in the accounting policies below.
for hedge accounting: or b the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form part of Basis of consolidation a net investment in a foreign operation: The consolidated financial statements comprise Invensys plc and in which case they are recognised directly in equity.
its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results of its Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in associates for the financial year to 31 March each year.
The financial a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year date of the initial transaction.
as the Parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a All intragroup balances and transactions have been eliminated.
foreign currency are translated at the rates prevailing when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired during the year are included in the income statement for the period, except for consolidated up to, or from, the date control passes.
exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for using where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
the equity method of accounting.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary Financial statements of foreign operations nor a joint venture.
Under the equity method, the investment in an The trading results of overseas subsidiaries and associates are associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition translated into sterling at average rates of exchange ruling changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate, less any during the year.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, impairment in value.
The income statement reflects the share of including goodwill, are translated into sterling at closing rates of the results of operations of the associate.
Where there has been exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All resulting exchange a change recognised directly in the associates equity, the Group differences are recognised directly in a separate component of recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange applicable in the reconciliation of movements in equity.
differences held in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement, as part of the profit or loss on sale.
The financial statements of the associate are used by the Group to apply the equity method.
The financial statements of associates are Translation differences that arose before the date of transition prepared as of the same date as the Groups financial statements to IFRS are presented in equity but not as a separate component.
and use consistent accounting policies.
When the foreign operation is sold, these cumulative exchange differences are not recognised in the income statement.
All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the business combination is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities Revenue incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly Composition of revenue attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and Revenue comprises the invoiced value of goods and services liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business supplied by the Group excluding intragroup transactions, sales combination are measured initially at their fair values at the by associated undertakings and sales taxes.
Revenue relating to acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
construction contracts, including long-term service provision Invensys plc 55 Annual report & accounts 2006 Accounting policies continued contracts, represents the value of work performed during the year Goodwill determined by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
On a business combination, the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is assessed and adjustments Recognition of revenue and profits are made to bring the accounting policies of businesses acquired Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the into alignment with those of the Group.
The excess of the price paid economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be over the Groups interest in the fair value of identifiable net assets reliably measured.
The specific methods used to recognise the acquired is included in intangible assets as goodwill.
Any costs of different forms of revenue earned by the Group are set out below.
integrating the acquired business are taken to the income statement.
Sale of goods Goodwill arising on business combinations before 1 April 2004 has Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount subject to being risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves buyer and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Profit is recognised at the time of sale.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually, or Construction contracts and rendering of services more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that Revenue from construction contracts, including long-term service the carrying value may be impaired, and it is subsequently carried provision contracts, is recognised by reference to the stage of at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The Groups policy completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is on testing assets for impairment is set out under Impairment of normally determined by the proportion that contract costs incurred assets below.
to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
If the Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying nature of a particular contract means that costs incurred do not amount of goodwill relating to the business sold.
accurately reflect the progress of contract activity, an alternative Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset.
approach is used such as the achievement of pre-determined contract milestones.
Other intangible assets Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
On all contracts, amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of full provision is made for any losses in the year in which they are intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair first foreseen.
The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the purchase price Revenue from services provided on a short-term or one-off basis and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use.
is recognised when the service is complete.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use and is calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate the cost less residual Research and development value of assets over their estimated useful lives using the following All research expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Development annual rates: expenditure is expensed as incurred unless it meets the criteria for recognition as an intangible asset see policy on Other intangible Development costs 10 to 25% assets.
Computer software costs 10 to 25% Patents, trademarks and licenses Shorter of period of Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits the agreement or 15 years For defined benefit plans, the service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating profit Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjustments or loss in the year.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined where applicable are made on a prospective basis.
No intangible benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the assets other than goodwill are considered to have indefinite projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The full cost of useful lives.
providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service is also charged to operating profit or loss in the year.
The expected return Expenditure incurred on development projects is capitalised as an on the assets of the schemes during the year based on the market intangible asset if it meets the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38, value of scheme assets at the start of the financial year is included Intangible Assets.
These require it to be probable that the expenditure within other finance charges IAS 19.
This also includes a charge will generate future economic benefits and can be measured reliably.
representing the expected increase in liabilities of the schemes To meet these criteria, it is necessary to be able to demonstrate, during the year, arising from the liabilities of the scheme being one among other things, the technical feasibility of completing the year closer to payment.
Differences between actual and expected intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale.
returns on assets during the year are recognised in the statement Costs incurred in the preliminary stage of a development project are of recognised income and expense in the year, together with considered to be research costs, and are recognised in the income differences from changes in assumptions.
The net surplus or deficit statement as incurred.
These costs are incurred to determine the on defined benefit pension schemes is reported on the balance product concepts and alternatives, evaluate the alternatives and sheet within the pension asset or liability.
related risks, assess the technical feasibility of concepts, make the For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the final selection from the possible alternatives and prepare the high income statement in respect of pension costs is the contributions level design and project planning.
The costs incurred in the payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in following development stage for substantially new or improved the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as accruals products are assessed against the IAS 38 criteria and considered for or prepayments in the balance sheet.
recognition as an asset when they meet those criteria.
These costs are generally incurred in developing the detailed product design, 56 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 software configuration and software interfaces: the coding of Other leases are classified as operating leases.
Lease payments, software, building of prototypes and integration of the software with including any premium paid at the outset of the lease, made under hardware: and testing and releasing the product to manufacture and operating leases are recognised as an expense over the lease term pilot production.
Development expenditure directed towards incremental Inventories improvements in existing products does not qualify for recognition Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net as an intangible asset.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving items.
Cost comprises the cost of raw materials, determined on a In general the costs of developing software products that are sold first-in, first-out cost basis, and an appropriate proportion of labour in packaged form and not integrated and sold with hardware are and manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity, not recognised as intangible assets.
The uncertainties associated with to reflect the costs incurred in bringing the product to its present the functionality of these products mean that technical feasibility location and condition.
is achieved only immediately prior to or after field trial tests at customer sites.
As a result minimal or no costs are considered to Cash and cash equivalents meet the IAS 38 criteria for recognition.
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, call deposits and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three Property, plant and equipment months or less.
Items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cash and short-term deposits at the balance sheet date are The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises purchase price deducted from bank loans and overdrafts where formal rights and directly attributable costs.
Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their Taxation residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are lives at the following rates applied to original cost: measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute Freehold land Nil the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by Freehold buildings 2 to 2.5% the balance sheet date.
Leasehold properties Over the period of the lease Plant and equipment 7 to 35% Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax Useful lives and residual values are examined on an annual basis and bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: Impairment of assets except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset indication that any asset excluding goodwill may be impaired.
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, Goodwill is tested for impairment annually whether or not there at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting is any indication of impairment.
Goodwill was also impairment profit nor taxable profit or loss: and tested at the date of transition to IFRS.
If there is an indication of in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with impairment, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable differences can be controlled and it is probable that the amount and an impairment loss is recognised in the income temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible An assets recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit asset.
If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, independent of those from other assets or groups of assets the and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset can be utilised, except: belongs is determined.
where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset The calculation of an assets value in use uses a discount rate that or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, reflects the asset specific risks and the time value of money.
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and Leased assets in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint property, plant and equipment at fair value or, if lower, the present ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent value of the minimum lease payments.
Capitalised leased assets that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in are subsequently depreciated over the shorter of the lease term the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against or the assets useful life.
Obligations related to finance leases, net which the temporary differences can be utilised.
of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate within liabilities.
Lease payments are apportioned The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Invensys plc 57 Annual report & accounts 2006 Accounting policies continued allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each in which the hedged item affects the income statement on disposal balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it is of the hedged investment in the case of a net investment hedge.
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
financial instruments that do not qualify as hedges are recognised Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to in the income statement.
apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on Derivative instruments held by the Groups pension and posttax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance retirement benefit schemes are accounted for within the schemes sheet date.
themselves and are reflected in the Group financial statements Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and within the amounts reported for those schemes.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement Where borrowings are used to hedge the Groups net investment in except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in foreign operations, the portion of the gain or loss on the borrowings equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
that is determined to be an effective hedge, in accordance with Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally IAS 39, is recognised in equity.
enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity Other financial assets and the same taxation authority.
Other financial assets are measured as follows: a At fair value for available-for-sale financial assets.
Gains and losses are recognised in Financial instruments equity except for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising Derivative financial instruments from these assets which are recognised in the income statement: The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts and and b At amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, interest rate swaps to manage its exposures to fluctuations in for held-to-maturity financial assets.
interest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any accounted for as hedges when designated as hedges at the inception provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are of the contract.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
financial instruments for financial trading purposes.
All derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value in the Debt instruments balance sheet.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the and interest rate swaps are calculated by reference to current consideration received less directly attributable issue costs.
forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are The designation of derivative financial instruments as hedges is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest carried out according to the Groups risk management policies.
This cost is computed as the amount initially Hedges fall into three categories: recognised minus principal repayments, plus or minus the a Fair value hedges, which hedge the exposure to changes in the cumulative amortisation of any difference between the initially fair value of a recognised asset or liability: recognised amount and the maturity amount.
Amortised cost is b Cash flow hedges, which hedge exposure to variability in cash calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a or premium on settlement.
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction: Gains and losses are recognised in net profit or loss when the or the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment: and liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation c Net investment hedges, which hedge exposure to changes in the process.
value of the Groups net investment in foreign operations due to foreign currency exposure.
Derecognition of financial instruments The accounting treatment for these categories is outlined below: A financial instrument is derecognised when the Group no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial Fair value hedges instrument.
When the hedging instrument is remeasured at fair value, any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Any Financial assets gain or loss on the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised where: and similarly recognised in the income statement.
the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, Cash flow and net investment hedges but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that material delay to a third party under a pass-through is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity.
arrangement: or Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised in the the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the income statement.
When a hedged cash flow related to a hedged asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and item results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all transferred control of the asset.
other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in 58 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from Share-based payment an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the The Group operates various equity-settled and cash-settled share risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, schemes.
For equity-settled share options, the services received from the asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date using the Blackof a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of Scholes option pricing model and recognised in the consolidated the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount income statement, together with a corresponding increase in of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
Where shareholders equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, continuing involvement takes the form of a written and or purchased based on an estimate of the number of options that will eventually option including a cash-settled option or similar provision on the vest.
Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken transferred asset, the extent of the Groups continuing involvement is into account when estimating the fair value.
Market conditions are the amount of the transferred asset that the Group may repurchase, those conditions that are linked to the share price of the Company.
except that in the case of a written put option including a cashFor equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is calculated settled option or similar provision on an asset measured at fair based on the share price at the grant date and, where applicable, any value, the extent of the Groups continuing involvement is limited market vesting conditions, and expensed over the vesting period based to the lower of the fair value of the transferred asset and the option on the number of shares expected to vest.
No expense is recognised exercise price.
for awards that do not ultimately vest, with the exception of awards Financial liabilities where vesting is conditional upon a market condition: these are A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are met.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the For cash-settled share awards, the services received from employees same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an are measured at the fair value of the liability and recognised in the existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and vesting period.
The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair carrying amounts is recognised in profit or loss.
value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
New standards and interpretations not applied During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: Effective date financial periods International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs beginning on or after IFRS 1 Amendment relating to IFRS 6 1 January 2006 IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Financial Guarantee Contracts 1 January 2006 IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Assets 1 January 2006 IFRS 6 Amendment relating to IFRS 6 1 January 2006 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007 IAS 19 Amendment Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures 1 January 2006 IAS 21 Amendment to IAS 21 The Effects of Change in Foreign Exchange Rates: Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 1 January 2006 IAS 39 Fair Value Option 1 January 2006 IAS 39 Cash Flow Hedge Accounting 1 January 2006 IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Financial Guarantee Contracts 1 January 2006 Effective date financial periods International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC beginning on or after IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease 1 January 2006 IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds 1 January 2006 IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment 1 December 2005 IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 39 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies 1 March 2006 IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006 The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these the nature and extent of risks that they give rise to.
More standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the specifically the Group will need to disclose the fair value of its Group financial statements in the period of initial application.
financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail.
There will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their significance and Invensys plc 59 Annual report & accounts 2006
