Directors report continued Post balance sheet events Australian superannuation scheme Proposed refinancing The Invensys Australian Superannuation Fund shows a surplus of assets The Group proposes a refinancing including an underwritten rights over actuarial liabilities measured under IAS 19 at 31 March 2006 issue and restructuring of the Groups senior debt facilities, details at 42 million.
Confirmation has been obtained from the Australian of which are to be sent to shareholders.
The refinancing will be Courts that it would be proper for the Trustee to divide the surplus conditional, inter alia, on shareholder approval at an Extraordinary in the fund, after retaining appropriate reserves, between the General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 14 June 2006. members and the sponsor Austrac Investments Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Invensys plc.
An amended Trust deed was executed on Annual General Meeting 5 May 2006 that will provide an augmentation of members benefits The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on of approximately 20 million that will be charged to the income Thursday 3 August 2006 at 11am.
The separate circular including statement as an exceptional item during the year to 31 March 2007 the notice of meeting sent to all shareholders gives full details and the amount to be held in reserves will be determined.
of the meeting and the resolutions to be proposed.
The balance of approximately 21 million will be distributed to Austrac Investments Ltd during the year ending 31 March 2007.
By order of the Board Disposal of IBS On 24 May 2006, Invensys signed an agreement to sell its IBS Victoria Hull business to Schneider Electric SA for a gross cash consideration General Counsel & Company Secretary of 157 million.
24 May 2006 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific the financial statements in accordance with applicable United requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards understand the impact of particular transactions, other events as adopted by the European Union.
and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each state that the company has complied with IFRSs, subject to any financial year which present fairly the financial position of the material departures disclosed and explained in the financial company and of the Group and the financial performance and cash statements.
flows of the Company and of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records select suitable accounting policies and then apply them which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial consistently: position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to present information, including accounting policies, in a manner ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible information: for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
48 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006
