Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the n for the parent company accounts, state whether applicable group and parent company accounts, in accordance with applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any law and regulations.
material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company accounts: and Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company accounts for each financial year.
Under that law the directors The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records are required to prepare the group accounts in accordance with IFRS that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its accounts in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them The group accounts are required by law and IFRS as adopted by to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the and other irregularities.
group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such accounts that references in the relevant part of that Act to accounts giving a Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
responsible for preparing a directors report, directors remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with The parent company accounts are required by law to give a true and that law.
fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of In preparing each of the group and parent company accounts, the corporate and financial information included on the companys the directors are required to: website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and n select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
n make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: n for the group accounts, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: 108 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the accounts www.
com Independent auditors report to the members of AMEC plc AMEC plc annual report 2006 109 4155 AMEC back 06. indd 108 4 4 07 15:28:46
