AMEC in 2006 7 January 2006 The United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority April The European Space Agency ESA selects AMEC for UKAEA, AMEC and CH2MHILL form an important a sustainability project that will use earth observation alliance to speed up decommissioning at the Dounreay technology to assess the health of Florida Bay in the civil nuclear site in Scotland and to target additional Everglades and Cardiff Bay in Wales.
The sustainability opportunities in the UKs annual 2 billion nuclear project will involve the processing of satellite imagery clean-up market.
to measure the impact of aeration systems and other management techniques used to improve AMEC and ALSTOM win a 170 million contract from water quality.
AES Kilroot Power Ltd to fit new environmental technology to two existing 220 MW coal oil-fired generating units at the Kilroot power station in May The US Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence Northern Ireland.
The seawater flue gas selects AMEC for a third major multi-year contract.
desulphurisation air pollution control system will The new Heavy Engineering Repair & Construction reduce sulphur dioxide emissions in line with stringent HERC programme will have an initial spending EU emission requirements.
ceiling of US$6 billion, with a potential to increase up to US$15 billion, for AMEC and 19 other companies BG Group plc BG signs a major contract with an that were awarded HERC contracts.
initial value of 90 million for AMEC to support all of BGs UK upstream natural gas assets and manage the development of the Maria brownfield gas project in June AMEC and the UKAEA sign a Memorandum of the North Sea.
AMEC will also execute any additional Understanding with the Korean Power Engineering future brownfield UK upstream projects that BG Company to work together to target work in nuclear initiates during the contract period, with each being waste management and repository projects, subject to separate and additional financial decommissioning, reactors services and nuclear arrangements.
plants in Korean and international markets.
AMEC is awarded a multi-million pound three-year The AMEC-led InspirED joint venture reaches financial extension to its oil and gas asset support services close on the UKs largest schools PFI project to deliver contract by Shell Philippines Exploration for the 17 new and two refurbished secondary schools for Malampaya gas field in the Philippines.
Under the South Lanarkshire Council.
AMEC will benefit from extended contract AMEC will provide operational multiple income streams together worth more than support to a production platform offshore of Palawan 400 million, including contracts to design, construct island, an onshore gas plant at Batangas near Manila, and refurbish the schools, redevelop surplus land and a 500-kilometre pipeline running between the around 12 of the sites and provide estateplant and the platform.
February An AMEC joint venture is awarded front end work July AMEC completes the disposal of AMEC SPIE to a new defining Petro-Canadas Fort Hills oil sands upstream company controlled by funds managed by PAI Partners facility, whilst under a separate contract AMEC for a cash consideration of approximately e1 billion will provide front end work for the mining portion 684 million.
AMEC is awarded a four-year contract by the University of California, San Diego for water-quality March BAA appoints AMEC to manage the 28 million monitoring at the prestigious Scripps Institution of refurbishment of the main runway at Stansted Airport.
AMEC and its team of sub-consultants Working only at night when the airports operational will conduct monitoring required under a National requirements are at a minimum, AMEC will deliver Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit.
a fully refurbished runway in just nine months, managing a 200-strong workforce that will lay 35,000 August In the Canadian oil sands AMEC is awarded a contract tonnes of asphalt and 14,400 tonnes of concrete, while for programme and project management, engineering, 1000 runway lights will be replaced over the course and procurement services for the Enbridge Southern of the project.
Access and Southern Lights Pipeline projects, signifying a continued partnership between AMEC and Enbridge.
AMEC announces that Samir Brikho, a member of the ABB Group Executive Committee, will succeed Sir Peter Mason as the chief executive of AMEC plc on 1 October 2006.
114 AMEC plc annual report 2006 AMEC in 2006 7 www.
com AMEC in 2006 7 AMEC plc annual report 2006 115 4155 AMEC back 06. indd 114 4 4 07 15:28:48 September An AMEC-led joint venture is appointed preferred December Marks & Spencer appoints AMEC to manage a multibidder for the PPP contract to deliver six new million pound programme to redevelop two stores in secondary schools for East Dunbartonshire Council.
The new work follows the In addition to a return on equity, AMEC expects to successful completion this year of seven remodelled benefit from contracts to design and construct the stores in Bury, Dumfries, Handforth, Blackpool, schools, redevelop surplus land on five sites and Darlington, Workington and Pudsey.
provide estate management services over the AMEC Berca Indonesia, AMECs wholly Indonesian concession period, with a total value over 125 million.
joint venture company with CCM Group, based in AMEC tops the 2006 Dow Jones Sustainability Index Jakarta, wins two oil and gas engineering contracts in the World and European sustainability indices for in Indonesia.
The first is for Premier Oil Natuna the support services sector.
This is the third year in Sea BV, who will be carrying out production capacity succession that AMEC has been named as a sector enhancement and upgrade projects to its West Natuna leader in this prestigious index, which annually facilities.
The second contract is for onshore surveys the worlds 2500 largest companies, with engineering and design work on TOTAL E&P the top 10 per cent best performing, based on their Indonesies Tatun Oily Water Platform.
social, environmental and economic performance, AMEC announces its new vision and strategy to the being listed.
October AMEC is appointed by PetroChina Guangxi January 2007 AMEC signs a two-year contract with Chinas Third Petrochemical Company as its project management Qinshan Nuclear Power Company, owner operator contractor for the development of a US$1.6 billion of two CANDU nuclear power stations to provide grassroots refinery in Qinzhou, south-western China.
operational support services and assist in maintaining AMECs role includes development of the project the plants excellent performance.
management procedures, engineering, project AMEC Developments and its joint venture partner controls, health, safety and environmental management, quality management and several Morley Fund Management selected as preferred developer for the 300 million redevelopment of other operational and commercial functions.
The Exchange site in Swindon town centre by the An AMEC joint-venture is appointed by National Grid New Swindon Company and partners South West as the preferred partner for the West Overhead Lines of England Regional Development Agency, English and Cable Alliance, which will carry out the upgrade Partnerships and Swindon Borough Council.
of overhead power lines and underground cables across the western half of England and all of Wales.
The contract will be worth 500 million AMEC share: February AMEC is appointed by the Shenhua Ningxia Coal Group 237.5 million over an initial five-year period, after to carry out the initial engineering design for the offsite which the contract may be extended for a further and utility facilities on a US$1.5 billion coal-tofive years.
chemical production complex in north west China.
AMEC reaches an unconditional agreement to dispose of its 50 per cent interest in AMEC SPIE Rail Systems November AMEC wins a contract to clean up and demolish a number of redundant research facilities on the Limited to the French infrastructure company Colas SA for an undisclosed sum.
Completion is expected to AWE site at Aldermaston in Berkshire.
The highlyspecialised decommissioning work will be completed take place on 2 April 2007. by AMECs nuclear consultancy AMEC NNC.
The twoyear programme begins with a safety case and risk assessment that will last for up to eight months before the treatment of waste and final demolishing of the buildings.
AMEC in 2006 7 AMEC plc annual report 2006 115 4155 AMEC back 06. indd 115 4 4 07 15:28:48 Shareholder information Financial calendar Shareholders how to register: If you are an AMEC shareholder and wish to receive electronic March Preliminary announcement for the year ended 31 December.
April Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December.
communications, you will need your investor code, which is printed in the bottom right-hand corner of your AMEC share certificates May Annual general meeting.
September Interim report for the half year ended 30 June.
You must register with Capita Registrars to receive electronic Interim and preliminary announcements notified to the London Stock Exchange are available on the internet at www.
shareholder communications as follows: Copies of annual reports and accounts are also available upon written 1 Go to www.
com plantatree request from AMEC at its registered office.
2 Follow the Shareholders how to register instructions Payment of dividends Once you confirm your details, Capita Registrars will e-mail you to Interim ordinary dividend announced in September and paid in January.
Every time Capita Registrars receives a shareholder request to switch from paper to e-communications, we will ask Final ordinary dividend announced in March and paid in July.
The CarbonNeutral Company to plant a tree.
Shareholders who do not have dividend payments made directly into You can opt to return to paper communications at any time by their bank or building society accounts through the Bankers amending your details with Capita Registrars.
Shareholders who Automated Clearing System BACS may do so by contacting the decline to register for e-communications will continue to receive companys registrar, Capita Registrars.
Dividend reinvestment plan If you have any questions about electronic shareholder A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP is available for the convenience communications, contact Capita Registrars.
of shareholders who would prefer the company to utilise their Electronic shareholder information dividends for the purchase, on their behalf, of additional shares of the AMECs web site has a facility whereby shareholders can link to the company instead of receiving cash dividends.
companys registrar, Capita Registrars, via its web site in order to The DRIP provides for shares to be purchased in the market on, or as gain access to general shareholder information as well as personal soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, any dividend payment date shareholding details.
If you wish to access details of your personal at the price then prevailing in the market.
Further details of the DRIP shareholding you will need your investor code, which is printed in may be obtained from Capita Registrars.
the bottom right-hand corner of your AMEC share certificates and dividend tax vouchers.
Electronic communications To access these services: Electronic shareholder communication AMEC is working with The CarbonNeutral Company formerly 1 Select the Investors home page at www.
com Future Forests to reduce the impact of shareholder communications 2 Select Shareholder information from the main menu.
on the environment as well as cutting the cost of printing and 3 Select the Electronic shareholder services link.
For every shareholder that elects to receive 4 Follow the instructions at the Capita Registrars web site.
communications electronically, AMEC will plant a tree on their behalf If you have any questions about electronic shareholder information, at the Donkleywood Forest project in Northumberland.
information on The CarbonNeutral Company and the Donkleywood project is available at www.
com pdfs projects Capita Registrars .
pdf The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU Choosing electronic shareholder information means you will receive United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 870 162 3100 an e-mail every time any new shareholder information is published instead of paper documents in the post.
E-mails will refer to AMEC E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com or visit the web site at www.
com annual and interim reports, documents relating to our annual general meeting and any other shareholder communications and will Registered office normally be from our registrar, Capita Registrars.
E-mails will contain AMEC plc links to the appropriate web site where the documents can be viewed.
Sandiway House, Hartford, Northwich, Cheshire CW8 2YA United Kingdom Registered in England No 1675285 116 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Shareholder information www.
com 4155 AMEC back 06. indd 116 4 4 07 15:28:49 55% This report is printed using vegetable based inks on paper made from 55% recycled fibre and is 45% virgin elemental chlorine free from certified sustainable resources.
Printed by Taylor Bloxham who are totally committed to reducing the impact printing has on the environment.
The printer is registered to the environmental management system ISO 14001:2004 and is accredited with FSC Forest Stewardship Council certification number SA-COC-1487.
Designed and produced by the AMEC Graphic Design department in collaboration with Scott Williams, Johnny Boylan and Saffron Digital Production Ltd. SA-COC-1487 CGD Broch1903 April 2007 AMEC plc 65 Carter Lane London EC4V 5HF United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 7634 0000 Fax: 44 0 20 7634 0001 www.
