To use this service shareholders should contact directed to Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Capita Registrars on 0870 458 4577 or visit www.
ShareGift Alternatively you could email them at: ssd@capitaregistrars.
ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders who may Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of company mailings wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the market value because they have multiple accounts should write to the registrar makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
The scheme to have the accounts amalgamated.
is administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation and further By logging on to www.
com and selecting information can be obtained by calling 020 7337 0501 or from Shareholder Portal you can benefit from a number of online services www.
as follows: Share price information View share price and current value of shareholding.
The current price of ITV plc ordinary shares is available on Ceefax, View shareholding details.
Teletext and on the Company website.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan View details of dividends paid.
The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan to provide UK shareholders with a facility to invest cash dividends by purchasing Apply change dividend mandate instruction.
Further details are available from the registrar.
Apply change dividend reinvestment plan mandate.
Register an email address to receive future shareholder communications and reports via the Internet rather than by post.
You will need your investor code IVC which can be found on your share certificate s to register to use the Shareholder Portal.
103 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Shareholder information Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Financial calendar The Company has corporate sponsored Maxi and Mini ISAs.
The ISAs Annual General Meeting Thursday 17 May 2007 offer UK resident shareholders a simple low-cost and tax efficient way Half year results announcement August 2007 to invest in ITV plc ordinary shares.
Full details together with a form of application are available from HSBC Trust Company UK Limited, Dividends Corporate PEPs & ISAs, 1st Floor, Courtwood House, Silver Street Head, Final Dividend 2006 Sheffield, S1 2BH.
Ex-dividend date Wednesday 18 April 2007 Record date Friday 20 April 2007 The Unclaimed Assets Register The Company participates in The Unclaimed Assets Register, which Final date for return of DRIP mandate forms Wednesday 6 June 2007 provides a search facility for financial assets, which may have been lost Payment date and DRIP purchase Monday 2 July 2007 or forgotten and which donates 10% of its public search fees to a wide Certificates posted and Crest accounts credited Friday 13 July 2007 range of UK charities.
The Company has introduced consolidated tax vouchers.
Shareholders For further information and to obtain a search request form contact: will receive a single tax voucher each year, in time for the tax year end, The Unclaimed Assets Register containing details of dividends paid in that tax year.
If you would prefer Cardinal Place to receive a tax voucher for each dividend payment please contact 80 Victoria Street the registrar.
London SW1E 5JL Telephone 0870 241 1713 Unauthorised brokers Boiler Room Scams Email search@uar.
co. uk Over the last year many companies have become aware that their www.
co. uk shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas Unsolicited mail based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them The Company is legally obliged to make its register of members what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK available to the public.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive As a consequence of this some shareholders might receive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has unsolicited mail.
Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000. mail should write to the Mailing Preference Service MPS, Freepost 29, Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
Alternatively you can register online offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
uk or request an application form by calling More detailed information can be found on the FSA website 0845 703 4599.
MPS will then notify the bodies that support its service www.
that you do not wish to receive unsolicited mail.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Registered office Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
ITV plc Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting 200 Grays Inn Road involved.
London WC1X 8HF Telephone 020 7843 8000 The FSA also maintains a list of unauthorised overseas firms who Company registration number 4967001 are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors.
The list can be found at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
Company website Any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA Investor and shareholder related information can be found on the using the online form so that this list can be kept up to date and any Company website at www.
other appropriate action can be considered.
Inform Capita Registrars contact details given above.
Contacts for corporate governance Executive Chairman Michael Grade If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to Senior Independent Director Sir James Crosby receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director John Cresswell Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses Company Secretary James Tibbitts will only be included in company mailings.
Telephone: 020 7843 8000 Identity theft Tips for protecting your ITV shares: The following documents are available on the website: Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your shares Job descriptions for Executive Chairman, Chief Operating electronically in CREST via a nominee.
Officer and senior independent director Keep all correspondence from the registrar in a safe place, or destroy Terms of engagement for non-executive directors correspondence by shredding.
Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board If you change address inform the registrar in writing or via the Shareholder Portal.
If you receive a letter from the registrar Terms of Reference for Audit, Remuneration, Nomination regarding a change of address but have not recently moved and Management Committees please contact them immediately.
Guidelines for seeking independent advice Consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank.
This will Board performance programme reduce the risk of the cheque being intercepted or lost in the post.
If you change your bank account, inform the registrar of the details Directors Indemnity of your new account.
You can do this via post or online using the Terms of reference for remuneration consultants Shareholder Portal.
Respond to any letters the registrar sends you about this.
If you are buying or selling shares only deal with brokers registered in your country of residence or the UK.
