Electronic communications for shareholders Financial calendar 2006 07 The Company has set up a facility for shareholders to take advantage of electronic communications.
If you would like to: Dividend and interest payments check the balance and current value of your shareholding and view your Ordinary dividend dividend history register your email address so that future shareholder information can Ex-dividend date 24 May 2006 be sent to you electronically Record date 26 May 2006 submit your vote online prior to a general meeting Final dividend payable 21 July 2006 Interim dividend payable January 2007 Log on to www.
co. uk and complete the following steps: 1 click on Investors B Shares 2 click on Shareholder Services 3 click on Computershare Last date for Registrars to receive July B Share 4 enter the required information and click on submit.
redemption notices record date 30 June 2006 You will need your 11 character shareholder reference number located Redemption date 18 July 2006 on your latest tax voucher Interest payment date 18 July 2006 5 click on Electronic Shareholder Communication and register online.
Last date for Registrars to receive January B Share redemption notices record date 2 January 2007 Registered office Auditors Redemption date 18 January 2007 J Sainsbury plc  LLP Interest payment date 18 January 2007 33 Holborn 1 Embankment Place London EC1N 2HT London WC2N 6RH Interest payments Registered number 185647 8% Irredeemable Unsecured Loan Stock 1 March 1 September Solicitors Stockbrokers Linklaters UBS One Silk Street 1 Finsbury Avenue Other dates London EC2Y 8HQ London EC2M 2PP Annual General Meeting 12 July 2006 Hoare Govett Ltd Interim results announced 15 November 2006 250 Bishopsgate London EC2M 4AA Interim report circulated November 2006 104 J S J Sainsbury plc ainsbury plc Annual R Annual Repor eport t and Financial S and Financial St tat atement ements s 2 2006 006 Glossary Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to help inspire Easter adjustment Like-for-like sales are impacted SORIE Statement of recognised income and expense.
school children to take more exercise and to eat more by the timing of the Good Friday trading week none in TtD Taste the Difference Sainsburys premium healthily.
The scheme was launched for the second time 2005 06 and two in 2004 05. sub-brand range of products, featuring circa 900 lines.
in February 2006 and is open to all nursery, primary ESOP Trusts Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts.
and secondary schools in the UK.
TSR Total shareholder return The growth in value www.
co. uk activekids Fairtrade The Fairtrade mark is an independent of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming consumer label that guarantees a fair deal for that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional ADR American Depositary Receipt The over-themarginalised workers and small scale farmers in units of the stock.
Producers receive a minimum Try Something New Today The marketing campaign AGM Annual General Meeting This year the AGM price that covers the cost of production and an extra in support of Making Sainsburys Great Again.
will be held on Wednesday 12 July 2006 at The Queen premium that is invested in the local community.
Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, www.
uk TU Sainsburys own label clothing range.
Fair value The amount for which an asset could be UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting B Shares Preference B Shares issued on 12 July 2004 exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, Principles.
as part of the Return of Capital scheme in 2004 05. willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Underlying basic earnings per share Profit after Basics Sainsburys core sub-brand range of FSA Food Standards Agency.
tax from continuing operations attributable to equity products, featuring circa 500 lines.
holders before any gain or loss on the sale of GDAs Guideline Daily Amounts.
properties, impairment of goodwill, financing fair value BGtY Be Good to Yourself Sainsburys healthier Gearing Net debt divided by total equity.
movements and one off items that are material and alternative sub-brand range of products, featuring circa infrequent in nature, divided by the weighted average 500 products.
Products fall into one of three categories: Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, those with less than 3% fat: those with less calories, IAS International Accounting Standard.
excluding those held by the ESOP Trusts, which are salt and saturated fat than standard lines: or plus treated as cancelled.
products that are fortified with added ingredients IFRIC International Financial Reporting including pre-biotics, pro-biotics and Omega 3.
Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations Profit before tax from continuing Business Review The Groups review which Justin Income statement Formerly known as the profit operations before any gain or loss on the sale of King announced on 19 October 2004, called Making and loss account under UK GAAP.
properties, impairment of goodwill, financing fair Sainsburys Great Again.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard s. value movements and one off items that are material Category review The re-ranging and simplification of and infrequent in nature.
IGD Institute of Grocery Distribution.
ranges to ensure the best choice of products is in place Underlying net debt Net debt before IAS 32 and and displayed appropriately in store.
Kids Sainsburys childrens sub-brand range Underlying operating profit loss Underlying featuring 100 products.
Sainsburys was the first CR Corporate responsibility The need to act profit loss before tax from continuing operations retailer to provide GDAs for children aged five to ten responsibly in managing the impact on a range before finance income and finance costs.
of stakeholders customers, colleagues, investors, Wheel of Health Symbol on 1,300 Sainsburys suppliers, the community and the environment.
Like-for-like sales The measure of year on year same own-brand products providing customers with store sales growth.
Debt restructuring On 24 March 2006 the Group accurate and easy to read labelling featuring five raised new long-term financing secured on 127 of LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Organic Organic farming prohibits the use of artificial Deflation Percentage reduction in price of fertilisers, pesticides, growth regulators and additives products sold.
The International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements IFOAM accredits Dividend cover Underlying profit after tax from national organic certifying bodies.
continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders divided by total dividends declared during the year.
Pipeline Sites which the Group has an interest in Annual review Financial statements 51 developing in the future.
DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan Allows Group performance 2 Independent Auditors report shareholders to reinvest their cash dividend in shares Revenue Sales through retail outlets and, in the of the Company through a specially arranged share case of Sainsburys Bank, interest receivable, fees Chairmans statement 3 to the members of J Sainsbury plc 51 dealing service.
Chief Executives operating review 4 Group income statement 52 EPS Earnings per share Earnings attributable to ROCE Return On Capital Employed.
Our commitment to communities 24 Statements of recognised ordinary shareholders divided by the weighted average RPI Retail Price Index.
Board of Directors 26 income and expense 53 number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, Operating Board 27 Balance sheets 54 excluding those held by ESOP Trusts, which are treated Sainsburys SO organic Sainsburys organic subas cancelled.
brand range of products, featuring circa 300 products.
Cash flow statements 55 Financial review 29 Notes to the financial statements 56 Five year financial record 101 Governance 35 Additional shareholder Report of the Directors 35 information & glossary 102 Statement of corporate governance 37 Remuneration report 41 Shareholder information 102 Statement of Directors responsibilities Financial calendar 104 in respect of the financial statements 50 Glossary 105 Design by sasdesign.
Printed by royle corporate print.
We would like to thank the ten photographers featured on page 1 for their energy and enthusiasm in helping us illustrate this report.
Other photography by James Bell, Grace Pattison, Chris Moyse and Dean Belcher.
This report is printed on paper from elemental chlorine free pulps.
These have been made using mainly eucalyptus fibre from fully sustainable commercial forests in Portugal, Spain and Chile.
In addition, the mill recycles all its own paper waste and this forms up to 30 per cent of the total fibre content.
The mill operates under the strictest environmental standards and holds ISO 14001 accreditation for its environmental management systems.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 www.
co. uk Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 One day on our journey Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 One day on our journey Annual review Summary financial statement Group performance 2 Summary Directors report 28 Chairmans statement 3 Summary financial review 32 Chief Executives operating review 4 Independent Auditors statement 37 Our commitment to communities 24 Shareholder information 37 Board of Directors 26 Financial calendar 39 Operating Board 27 Glossary 40 The Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 does not contain sufficient information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company and the Group.
For further information the separate publication, entitled J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006, containing the financial review, the Report of the Directors, the Statement of corporate governance, the Remuneration report, the financial statements and the Independent Auditors report on those financial statements, which is unqualified, should be consulted.
Copies may be obtained through our website www.
co. uk or by calling freephone 0800 0154 330.
Shareholders wishing to receive a free copy of the Annual Report and Financial Statements in future years should write to the Company Secretarys Office, J Sainsbury plc, 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT.
In last years review I said lots of little things can make for big change.
Since then weve been working hard to improve hundreds of things every day that, added together, are giving customers a much better shopping experience.
Weve won back customers, weve increased sales and weve grown market share.
Well tell you more about our performance over the following pages, but we also wanted to show you what were doing.
I gave ten photographers one roll of film each and asked them to capture Sainsburys in action on one day on our journey.
In this Review you can see the results theirs and ours.
Justin King, Chief Executive The photographers briefing at Sainsburys Store Support Centre, London, the day before the shoot.
Back row, left to right: Anders Hald, Iain Crockart, James Bell, Slater King, Charlie Fawell, Nick Dawe.
Front row, left to right: Nick David, Victoria Nightingale, Justin King, Stuart Franklin, Matt Stuart.
Group performance Continuing operations 2006 2005 Sales inc VAT 17,317m 16,364m Sales ex VAT 16,061m 15,202m 2 Underlying operating profit 342m 325m 3 Underlying profit before tax 267m 238m Profit loss before tax 104m 238 m Profit loss after tax 58m 187 m 4 Underlying basic earnings per share 10.50p 8.30p Basic earnings losses per share 3.80p 17.40p 5 Proposed dividend per share 8.00p 7.80p Our businesses Market share by region % J Sainsbury plc comprises Sainsburys Supermarkets, convenience Total market stores, an internet-based home delivery shopping service and Sainsburys share 14.7% Bank.
Sainsburys stands for great products at fair prices.
The Group Source: TNS continually improves and develops its product ranges and is committed to giving customers an ever improving shopping experience.
It aims to 5.7 ensure that all colleagues have opportunities to develop their abilities Scotland and are well rewarded for their contribution to the business.
At the end of the 2005 06 financial year, Sainsburys employed 153,000 people.
6.6 Sainsburys Supermarkets is Britains longest standing major food retailing 14.2 North East Northern chain.
A large Sainsburys store offers around 30,000 products, 50 per 9.0 Ireland Lancashire cent of which are Sainsburys own brand products including fresh produce.
8.4 In addition to a wide range of quality food and grocery products many Yorkshire stores also offer a range of complementary non-food products and services.
15.1 15.5 11.4 East Midlands Wales England Sainsburys Bank, owned by J Sainsbury plc and HBOS, aims to make finance & West 24.7 easier to understand and manage.
It offers excellent value products with London 20.1 extra benefits, delivered in a simple and accessible way.
The current product South 14.8 South West range includes savings and loan products, credit cards and a number of insurance products.
Sainsburys Online is the Groups internet-based home delivery shopping Colleagues service which currently operates from 97 stores.
In addition to food and grocery products, the service also offers over 250,000 books, CDs, DVDs 153,000 colleagues videos and computer games.
Flowers, wine, gifts, kitchen appliances and electricals are also available online.
32% 68% 58% 42% full time part time female male 1 Includes 26 stores over 55,000 sq ft. 2 Underlying operating profit: underlying profit before tax from continuing operations before finance income and finance costs.
3 Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations: profit before tax from continuing operations before Store estate any gain or loss on the sale of properties, impairment of goodwill, financing fair value movements and one off items that are material and infrequent in nature.
In the current financial year, these one off items were 000 sq ft 40 25-40 15-25 -15 Total the Business Review costs, IT insourcing costs and debt restructuring costs.
In the prior financial year, these one off items were the Business Review and Transformation costs.
4 Underlying basic earnings per share: profit after tax from continuing operations attributable to equity Convenience - - - 297 297 holders before any gain or loss on the sale of properties, impairment of goodwill, financing fair value 1 movements and one off items that are material and infrequent in nature, divided by the weighted average Supermarkets 166 168 88 33 455 number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by the ESOP Trusts, which are 1 treated as cancelled.
Total stores 166 168 88 330 752 5 Proposed dividend per share: total proposed dividend per share in relation to the financial year.
2 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Chairmans statement Philip Hampton This has been a strong year of recovery for Sainsburys Last year we introduced a long-term incentive plan with a continued focus on the implementation of the plans specifically to support the recovery plan launched in outlined in October 2004.
Our performance in the last October 2004.
It was a one-time arrangement and no year has increased confidence in Sainsburys prospects further incentives can be awarded from it.
among customers, colleagues and, I believe, shareholders.
At our AGM in July we will be proposing a new incentive 3 Our underlying profit for the year was 267 million.
The framework for arrangements to be put in place over the Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.85 pence per next ten years, starting with the 2006 07 financial year.
It share, an increase of 3.5 per cent.
This will take the full year will build on last years plan applying to around 1,000 senior dividend to 8.00 pence per share, an increase of 2.6 per managers in order to retain and motivate key talent beyond cent compared to last year, covered 1.3 times by earnings.
the 2008 09 milestone set last year.
We will also propose The Board does not wish to see the dividend eroded in a new deferred bonus plan for top managers where the real terms and the increase broadly equals inflation in the proposed measure is based on TSR.
However, we continue to expect to rebuild dividend aligned with UK best practice and offers strong incentives cover to at least 1.5 times.
for top performance and no rewards for failure.
Details are set out later in this report.
The key to recovery is to increase sales.
We are on track to hit our target of 2.5 billion additional sales in our recovery Bridget Macaskill will be stepping down as a Non-Executive period.
As we move forward, we expect to see financial Director at our AGM in July and June fide Moller retired rewards to shareholders arising from improved sales from the Board in September 2005.
I would like to take performance and our continued focus on cost reductions.
this opportunity of thanking them for their hard work and commitment over the past few years, especially their The Board is determined to work towards a successful help in the introduction of recovery initiatives.
financial recovery, while maintaining the ethical approach and commitment to high business standards that are a This year we have again strengthened the Board with fundamental part of Sainsburys heritage.
There are arguably significant additional knowledge and diversity of experience.
few business sectors where customer demands for In August 2005, Darren Shapland joined the executive team value and quality have to be so constantly balanced with as Chief Financial Officer and John McAdam was appointed their concerns for health, the environment and the local Senior Independent Director in September 2005.
Pages 24 and 25 detail our approach to this 2006 we welcomed Anna Ford as a Non-Executive Director.
as does Justin Kings operating review.
The Competition Commission has announced that it is to In March 2006 we completed a major refinancing raising conduct an investigation into the UK grocery market.
This provided cost effective long-term finance We have established a dedicated team to deal with this by recognising the value in our property portfolio.
At the to ensure it will not distract us from our continued same time we retain ownership of these valuable assets.
In commitment to serve customers in the best possible way.
conjunction with the refinancing we agreed with Sainsburys The many activities that have taken place this year give pension schemes trustees that some of the new funds encouraging signs that our recovery plan is well on course.
raised would be used to make a one off contribution of Once again there has been great change for colleagues 350 million into the pension schemes.
Annual contributions but there is a real sense now around the business that by Sainsburys into the schemes will also be increased by Sainsburys has renewed vigour and ambition.
This view 18 million to 38 million per annum.
Our defined benefit is also being echoed by many stakeholders and I would like schemes remain in place for existing members but to provide to thank them, as I did last year, for their continued support a more balanced sharing of risk and cost between members and the part they are playing in our recovery plan.
and the Company, changes such as increased contributions and controls on future benefits are being introduced to improve the funding of the schemes and increase security of benefits.
Colleague contributions for those in the defined benefit schemes will increase from September 2006 with options to maintain current contribution levels or move to career average or a new scale of retirement benefit.
Philip Hampton Chairman J S J Sainsbury plc ainsbury plc Annual R Annual Re evie view and S w and Summary Financial S ummary Financial St tat atement 2 ement 2006 006 3 3 Chief Executives operating review Justin King was cited as our number one performance issue, but Were now serving 16 million customers weve improved significantly.
Our night shift colleagues each week which is 1.5 million more than are the unsung heroes of this change.
Together with this time last year.
Competition between our new store processes, theyve helped reduce the retailers is intense, so this is a big step gaps on our shelves by 75 per cent, and our availability is now back in line with other supermarkets.
Were now working on the other 25 per cent as we want This year we increased sales inc VAT by 5.8 per cent to improve even further.
In March 2006, for example, to 17,317 million and we increased like-for-like sales we completed the roll-out of a new hand-held stock by 3.7 per cent, delivering a fifth consecutive quarter and sales system.
This provides up-to-the-minute sales of like-for-like sales growth.
We also increased our and supply data to colleagues on the shop floor, helping market share.
These results are the clearest measure them to monitor and respond to stock levels faster.
I can think of to show that customers are responding At the same time we have a more accurate picture of to the changes were making.
the stock we have versus the stock we need and this If we exclude revenue from our petrol and banking has helped reduce our wastage and therefore cost.
businesses, we achieved total sales growth of 722 Weve also made considerable investments in pricing million.
This is a solid start towards achieving an this year, and it is now very competitive across all extra 2.5 billion in sales the goal we announced in ranges.
Great food at fair prices is a strong tradition October 2004 in our Making Sainsburys Great Again at Sainsburys, and our aim to generate 1.4 billion recovery plan.
extra sales from core grocery products is dependent I wanted to show you some examples of the many on getting the right balance of price and quality.
things weve done to improve our offer, so I asked ten Grocery deflation the percentage reduction in price photographers to go out and look at our business in of products sold of 1.5 per cent last year was largely action on just one day 19 April 2006.
I briefed them the result of the 8,500 price reductions we made, and to each provide one picture capturing an aspect of underlines how competitive we have become on price.
Sainsburys, and to tell us a little about their experience We now highlight price reductions under the Ways of our business.
to save logo, like the one in the picture opposite, which The first picture was taken at 2.30am at our Moortown we launched in August 2005.
This reinforces our store in Leeds.
Like the majority of our supermarkets, competitiveness by helping customers to identify offers, this store now has a night shift in operation to replenish promotions and price-checked products those that shelves ready for the morning.
Back in 2004 availability are the same price or cheaper than competitors.
Thinking on our feet These handsets give colleagues accurate real-time information about stock and sales wherever they are in the store.
The result: faster decision-making, fewer empty shelves, less wastage.
4 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 2.30am Night shift, Moortown store, Leeds Everyone here said the same thing - the night shift has made the store much more efficient and customers love it.
You just have to look at the shelves, they said: more empty spaces at night, more full shelves in the morning.
Photographer: Matt Stuart 7.20am The bakery, Fosse Park store, Leicester It may be early but hundreds of trays of hot bread, buns and doughnuts are whizzing around, all of it baked here in the store.
Delicious aromas waft into the aisles, drawing in the customers.
Photographer: Nick David subjects such as nutrition.
We also run food master Passion for food remains at the heart classes on everything from Thai cookery to onions of our brand.
We understand that quality and British cheese to chocolate.
The classes provide food, and fresh and seasonal products, an opportunity for product developers to learn are as important to customers as fair more about individual ingredients so that they can improve the taste and variety of the products we sell.
Thats why sales of our food products have outpaced the market Were obsessed with ingredients and have developed clear and exacting product standards for all ranges, over the past year.
together with a new tracking system that ensures these We would say that, but theres growing recognition for are adhered to.
At depots weve improved the way we our commitment to quality.
At the industrys leading check the quality of products before accepting them retail Quality Food and Drink Awards last December, into our supply chain, and customers are now giving 30 Sainsburys products were short-listed, the most us their highest rating for healthy, fresh and tasty food from any retailer.
Every nomination in the fresh since we set out on our recovery programme.
produce category was a Sainsburys product.
We won This year we improved or introduced around 3,000 nine category awards, and for the third year running food products, and we re-ranged and simplified every were given the overall award for quality.
product category to ensure the best choice of products Our bakery departments demonstrate what our focus is in place for customers.
on food means in practice.
We bake fresh bread Basics, our fastest growing own-brand range, appeals throughout the day.
In fact, by the time the photograph to everyone and covers many different products.
It has opposite was taken at 7.20am the bakery team at our generated incremental sales, and research shows that Fosse Park store in Leicester had already been in action around 50 per cent of customers buy from both for over two hours.
Basics and our premium range, Taste the Difference.
We encountered a growing problem this year as we New brand standards, such as only using free-range expanded our bakery departments bakery skills are eggs and British-sourced chicken and pork, and the dying out in the UK.
Our response was to launch an removal of hydrogenated vegetable oils, have been apprenticeship scheme for new recruits to develop applied to Taste the Difference products this year.
the required expertise and skills.
The scheme is being Hydrogenated vegetable oils, or more precisely trans piloted in ten stores in the North East of England.
fatty acids sometimes contained in them, have been Weve strengthened our product quality and innovation associated with health issues such as heart disease.
team considerably this year, and introduced new They will be removed from all Sainsburys products training and development for store colleagues in by January 2007 and we will be the first major supermarket to achieve this.
Salad days Weve started to wash and rinse bagged salads in natural spring water.
Customers tell us they prefer their food to be prepared with the minimum of fuss.
Using spring water is a simple and natural way to wash the salad, and a first for any supermarket in the UK.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 7 our full range of over 700 Sainsburys and branded Health and vitality are at the heart of what organic products and sales are up 20 per cent, we offer.
In January we updated our Be with particularly good sales in fresh food areas.
Good to Yourself range, evolving it from In the UK rising demand for organic milk currently a diet brand to a broader health brand.
outstrips supply, so we are working with farmers to cover the costs involved in conversion, as well as The new Be Good to Yourself range provides customers offering 12-month supply contracts once the milk with low fat diet products as well as healthier options, is organic.
and plus meals with added ingredients such as Our commitment to sourcing products from the UK prebiotics, probiotics and Omega 3.
There are around whenever we can inspired us to find a local solution 500 products in the range, of which 100 were new this to the supply issue, rather than simply import organic year.
Many of these were the first product of their kind milk from abroad.
We are the only supermarket that in any UK supermarket.
So in May 2006 we achieved another What weve done with bread shows that you can offer market first by selling milk from British farms like healthy choices without affecting taste.
We invested Chalder Farm, shown here that are in conversion 2 million to produce a bread with higher fibre and 15 to organic standards.
We call it Farm Promise and per cent less salt.
It tasted just the same as our existing it means we pay a premium to cover all the extra best-selling bread, but with healthier ingredients.
And we sell it to customers at the same price as before, In February we launched Active Kids for the second despite the significant investment weve made.
This provides schools with activity worry about what goes into our products so our equipment and experiences in return for vouchers customers dont have to.
Last year the scheme attracted In February we introduced our Kids range and became 80 per cent of all UK primary and secondary schools, the first retailer to provide Guideline Daily Amounts and we donated equipment worth more than 17 million.
GDAs for children aged five to ten years on packaging.
On average, each school received around 700 of Were now rolling out childrens GDAs across other rewards, a substantial contribution given that the ranges because customers tell us they welcome help annual primary school budget for such equipment in making healthy food choices for their children, is estimated at around 200. and many parents want their children to eat the same Over 30,000 schools and nurseries have registered meals as them.
to take part in Active Kids in 2006.
Around 95 per This year we re-launched around 300 organic products cent of our customers are aware of the scheme and under the Sainsburys SO organic brand, which sets believe it is providing a valuable contribution for the very high organic standards.
Our larger stores carry local community.
In February we became the first UK supermarket to include Guideline Daily Amounts GDAs for children aged five to ten years on our product packaging.
Now parents can judge the content of their childrens food, rather than rely on guesswork.
8 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 11.40am Converting to organic, Chalder Farm, Chichester Theres clearly an excellent understanding between Alison, from Sainsburys, and Chris, the farmer.
Both seem interested in the long-term.
And the cows seemed pretty interested too.
Photographer: Nick Dawe 12.15pm Active kids, Fleetdown Junior School, Dartford A recipe for active kids... take one school, choose from over 30,000.
Add 700 worth of activity equipment, mix with 12 excited school children, photograph and enjoy, immediately!
Photographer: Iain Crockart 1.55pm Food Standards Agency, London What was obvious from the meeting between Erica from Sainsburys and the FSA was a shared desire to make food labelling as clear and honest for customers as possible.
There is something about this photograph that captures the way the two organisations are working together.
Photographer: James Bell of approval from customers, who found it easy to Were leading standards in UK food understand and helpful when deciding which products labelling and have really improved our to buy.
The traffic light colours of green, amber and understanding of what people want red were universally understood.
The Wheel of Health and whats important to them.
Were is now on over 1,300 of our products and we continue to add more.
listening to customers and responding.
Research conducted in April 2006 found that around We are the only large-scale supermarket chain that 80 per cent of customers have noticed the labelling places its priority on food.
Our focus on fresh food and believe it influences what they buy.
Products really sets us apart, as does the way we help customers with greens and ambers on the Wheel of Health are to understand more about the food they buy and the generally showing positive sales trends in comparison choices they have.
Were proud of the work we do in to similar products with ambers and reds.
this area and our customers rate Sainsburys approach to healthy eating above that of every one of our We are convinced that colour coding the salt, fat, competitors.
saturated fats, total sugars and calories in a serving of each product in grams goes much further in helping Good, healthy food is part of our DNA at Sainsburys.
customers than simply moving GDA information Weve cared about food quality issues ever since from the back of packaging to the front.
Taking the Sainsburys opened its very first store in 1869, and bold step of putting red on a product shows you weve gone further than any other supermarket in care more about your customers than short-term communicating with customers about the food they sales.
Our approach was endorsed by the FSA when buy and eat.
it announced its recommendations for nutritional There is a clear trend of customers wanting more labelling in March 2006.
We continue to share our information about what they eat, and well continue research and findings with the FSA.
to innovate and lead in this area.
We are also receiving external recognition for our Heres an example of these commitments in action.
commitments to the wellbeing of colleagues.
In In January 2005 we led the industry on nutritional March Sainsburys was voted Londons Healthiest labelling by introducing a multiple traffic light system Large Employer as part of the BBCs Big Challenge called the Wheel of Health.
This was developed Healthworks initiative, a nationwide search to find following extensive consumer research, together with the healthiest employers across the UK.
We were input from the Food Standards Agency FSA.
It was commended for the health initiatives we run for reviewed after six months and received a huge vote colleagues throughout the UK.
On your marks, get set... Providing a very clear colour code for the salt, fat, saturated fats, total sugars and calories in a product is much more helpful than bringing information already on the back to the front of the pack.
Using green, amber and red is a bold and open way to help customers make the right choice for themselves.
It shows we care more about our customers than sales of an individual product.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 13 3.52pm Trying something new, Brighton Beach, Sussex Someone shouts Action!
and suddenly the entire beach area comes alive.
Its a great British scene the pier, the people, and Jamie Oliver being passionate about spinach in an ice cream van as he encourages people to try something new.
Photographer: Stuart Franklin Colleagues now get to try products and recipes so they Our new branding, Try Something New can experience them first hand and recommend ideas Today, is much more than a slogan.
More than seven million customers are The spirit and success of the campaign collecting our tip cards, and weve given out more has inspired our entire business, and than 100 million cards so far.
Clearly, the relationship between colleagues and customers can make an enormous difference and we The idea for Try Something New Today came about take it very seriously.
Every store colleague received because we wanted to encourage people to visit new customer service training last autumn.
their local store to experience the improvements we had made.
The insight behind the campaign was My Board colleagues and I also piloted a two-day that although an average supermarket stocks around training course focused on embedding new ways to 30,000 products, customers tend to purchase from lead our business, and helped to then deliver that around the same 150 products each week and often training to 1,000 of our managers from stores and dont notice whats going on around them in the store.
They, in turn, are delivering that training to a further 9,000 managers.
We tested this idea by reworking research originally carried out by Harvard University.
We dressed someone We try to be innovative with training and development, in a gorilla suit and sent them into store.
We then and our Scan School is an example of that.
The school asked customers if they had noticed anything unusual is actually two specially fitted double-decker buses while doing their shopping.
The vast majority had not that visit our stores to train our training colleagues.
and the concept of sleep-shopping was born.
Colleagues have to go no further than the store car So Try Something New Today aims to inspire customers park to receive the training.
The buses have travelled to think beyond their normal range of products.
around the country so that 90,000 colleagues at The campaign provides simple ways to make small around 500 stores can give customers a faster and but significant changes to the food we buy and eat.
The campaign has been incredibly well received by We track how engaged with our goal and values colleagues and customers.
colleagues are, and marked improvements have Our advertising, featuring Jamie Oliver, has publicised been achieved since September 2005.
Im delighted the campaign to an even wider audience, and sales that 117,000 colleagues will receive a share of a of whole nutmeg increased from 1,400 jars to 6,000 52 million bonus pot a just reward for the huge a week after Jamie used it as seasoning for pasta.
effort they have made this year.
Fresh ideas Weve applied the thinking behind Try Something New Today to the way we work.
For example, we now have an email free day in our Store Support Centre, to encourage colleagues to get up from their desks and communicate in person.
16 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 4.47pm Scan bus colleague training, Coldhams Lane, Cambridge Colleagues from the store were inside the bus, busily learning the best ways to work with the store technology.
What a great idea to take the school to the students, rather than the other way round.
Photographer: Anders Hald 5.14pm Every customer counts, Castle Lane West, Dorset Sainsburys has a lot more customers now than a year ago and two things really stood out.
Every time I asked someone if I could photograph them they were excited to take part.
And everyone at Sainsburys talks about customers, not consumers.
I think both things say a lot.
Photographer: Victoria Nightingale we grew sales of non-food items by eight per cent Research shows a marked improvement which was ahead of the market.
This is the Our Bank is an important part of our customer offer but result of the many changes we are it had a difficult year, making an underlying operating making every day.
loss of 10 million due to additional charges for bad debt.
The debt relates largely to loans made two and In addition to our core offer weve also been working three years ago when the Bank was taking on lots of on non-food ranges which currently account for new customers seeking loans.
Sainsburys Bank has around ten per cent of our total sales.
We concentrate been particularly affected because the type of products on things customers now want to find in a supermarket in its offer were those most likely to be affected as the like greetings cards, DVDs and clothes and accessories.
consumer credit environment worsened this year.
The Our target is to generate 700 million of additional position is now stabilising and we have put processes sales from non-food products.
The focus this year was in place to tighten our credit policy and associated to make the space already dedicated to these products risk controls.
work harder and we tested new products, fixtures On a more positive note, customer numbers are growing and layouts in 20 stores.
and accounts were up eight per cent to 2.5 million and The results were pleasing and were now introducing we continue to grow the part of the business for which more space for non-food products as stores are we receive commission.
extended and reformatted, and we estimate that Tim Pile stepped down as Chief Executive of the Bank around 50 stores will be altered in this way over the in March 2006 and we appointed Rob Walker as our next 12 months.
new Chief Executive in May 2006.
We believe that the TU, our own label clothing range has been incredibly supermarket banking model is robust and the move successful this year, with sales up by more than 40 to more commission-based products is appropriate per cent.
As part of our refurbishment and extension for long-term growth and profitability.
programme we plan to introduce TU into around Together with our partner, HBOS, were committed 40 more stores in 2006 and extend the current TU to the Bank and on working together to return it to offer in around 60 stores.
Our target is for the Bank to breakeven in We have also added 41 pharmacies during the year the 2006 07 financial year and return to profitability taking the total number in our stores to 169.
In fashion Our TU range of adult and childrens clothing and accessories is now available in 202 stores.
Its very popular with customers and sales are up over 40 per cent this year J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 19 We now have 297 convenience stores, trading under Working with local communities is key the brands Sainsburys Local, Sainsburys @ Bells to our search for new stores.
Its not just and Sainsburys @ Jacksons.
Last year we opened what we sell but how and where we sell it 20 stores, refurbished 34 Sainsburys Locals and thats important.
We want to ensure our 60 Sainsburys @ stores.
stores complement the local environment.
We achieved another good year in our convenience stores and expect this part of our business to generate The store environment affects everything from the 400 million of the 2.5 billion of additional sales customers experience to the efficiency with which we set out in our recovery plan.
can manage stock, so upgrading stores is an expensive but critical activity.
In October we earmarked 131 Refurbished and converted stores are generating stores for investment and by the end of March 2006 substantial sales increases, and were improving our we had refurbished 37 of these.
Ten stores were existing stores and integrating acquisitions as quickly extended and 14 new stores were opened, including and effectively as we can.
Customers particularly nine Safeway stores purchased from Morrisons.
By the value our fresh food offer and sales of these products end of 2005 we had 455 supermarkets in our portfolio.
following store conversions have increased by around 100 per cent.
We were able to refurbish and re-open the new Safeway stores in time for Christmas trading.
In the 14 stores Customers are also more satisfied with our online home we acquired from Morrisons earlier in 2005 sales delivery service, where our investment in enhancements are up, on average, by around 20 per cent, which has improved sales by more than 25 per cent.
We put demonstrates the appeal of Sainsburys when we expansion plans on hold while we fixed the basics introduce our brand to new locations.
of the operation, and we re-launched the website in September 2005.
The service, now fully integrated Were now pursuing new sites for supermarkets under with our stores, has much better product availability.
the leadership of Peter Baguley who joined in August 2005 as Property Director.
Early indications from We carried out little marketing activity for the online councils and developers are encouraging.
We believe service this year, yet managed to attract many new our commitments to food, quality and the wider customers.
We think this demonstrates the power community are helping to set us apart from other of word of mouth, with customers responding to our large retailers when seeking and developing sites.
In improved service by recommending us to friends.
Maidenhead, pictured opposite, we are building a new At the start of 2006 we added new post codes to 55,000 sq ft store as part of the overall regeneration our delivery areas and we plan to extend the service of the town centre.
to a further 200,000 households this year.
Our focus on food sets us apart We believe our commitments to food, quality and the wider community help to set us apart from other large retailers when seeking and developing sites.
20 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 6.10pm Maidenhead town centre regeneration The thing is, you cant hide a development.
Its right bang in the middle of the community and everyone knows whats being built.
People here seemed pleased it was going to be a Sainsburys.
Photographer: Charlie Fawell In January 2006 Roger Burnley joined us as Supply Weve made big changes in the supply Chain Director and Lawrence Christensen moved into chain, reorganising processes to ensure a part-time consulting role.
Roger will now concentrate we get the right products to the right on consolidating the numerous changes already made.
Replenishment orders are being delivered faster and in a store-friendly way, with products already sorted Ultimately, our recovery is dependent on how we according to the aisles in which they are found in store, perform here in the engine room of the business.
and were working with suppliers to help us improve What goes on inside somewhere like our Hams Hall availability even further and reduce costs.
depot makes an enormous difference to our customers experience, and so to the Sainsburys brand and We completed the insourcing of IT systems and the ultimately to our financial performance.
I hope the transfer of 470 colleagues, all assets and third party photograph here gets across a flavour of the energy contracts back into Sainsburys in April, just six months and momentum behind the scenes at Sainsburys.
after announcing our decision to terminate our contract with Accenture.
We expect to recoup the costs Getting the supply chain right has required decisive involved in ending this outsourcing agreement within action.
We transferred our operation at Charlton to the next two years.
a third party operator, closed our depots at Northfleet and Rotherham and reorganised our Basingstoke and Its appropriate we finish this review by showing our St Albans depots into multi-purpose facilities, providing supply chain as this is where the Sainsburys day chilled, ambient and fresh products to stores.
We have really starts and ends.
At 10.37pm were working on used our Buntingford facility to provide additional tomorrows deliveries and the day after that to capacity at Christmas for the past two years, but replenish our stores for another very busy 24 hours will now keep it open to help us keep pace with sales within Sainsburys.
We worked successfully to win support for Weve made hundreds of small changes as I mentioned our actions from colleagues and unions.
at the beginning, here in the supply chain and Our Waltham Point and Hams Hall depots are now throughout the entire business, and were beginning processing an average of two million cases a week, to see the effect of these changes.
Our recovery is on track, but were not complacent.
The many changes weve made have saved the We know we have to keep improving things for business substantial amounts of money.
We identified customers, increasing sales and reducing costs as we 400 million of cost reductions in October 2004 and continue to work on Making Sainsburys Great Again.
delivered more than 110 million this year, primarily in the areas of stock loss and central costs.
We expect to deliver a further 175 million savings in the current year bringing the cumulative total to 285 million and stretching our original target to 440 million.
Justin King Chief Executive Delivering a profit At the start of 2006 new post codes were added to the area served by our online home delivery operation as more and more people recommend the service to family and friends.
22 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 9.47pm Hams Hall depot, near Birmingham What Ill never forget is the size of the place.
Id never thought about the scale of a supermarket distribution system before.
Photographer: Slater King Our commitment to the communities in which we operate Corporate responsibility isnt new for us.
When we opened our first store in 1869 the guiding principle was to offer good quality products to everyone, including those who had never had access to healthy and safe food before.
Today, our commitment to the communities in which we operate is still every bit as important and the five principles below underpin our activities.
Customers trust us to take care of their concerns, and that sets us apart from competitors as you will have seen in this Review.
In many areas we already lead our industry, but were committed to innovating and setting even higher standards.
Weve provided some examples of our activities but our full corporate responsibility report can be found at www.
co. uk cr The Best for Food and Health Making a Positive Difference Our goal is to provide customers with healthy, to your Community safe, fresh and tasty products.
We want to We believe were part of your community, not make healthy eating easier, enjoyable and more apart from it.
That belief goes back almost 140 affordable for everyone.
years when we had just one shop located right in the heart of the local area.
The quality of the information we provide is an important part of this commitment.
We work closely Weve been involved in all sorts of community with organisations such as the Food Standards Agency initiatives, from encouraging customers to Grin and to develop clear and honest labelling.
during wartime rationing to todays Active customers balance their diet by providing a wide Kids scheme and our investment in charitable range of food choices and help people learn more activities.
Our policy is to consult the local community about ingredients, cooking and nutrition.
when we open a store, and to keep talking to local people once its built.
Sourcing with Integrity A Great Place to Work Weve a long tradition of working with suppliers Sainsburys isnt just a collection of stores, its a to source, produce and provide excellent food for group of committed, hard-working people the customers.
Our suppliers are partners we rely colleagues who provide the products, services, on them and respect their expertise.
advice and help customers need.
Weve been working with some of our suppliers for decades.
Successful relationships are based on open Colleagues are more than employees: theyre members dialogue and a shared understanding of customers of the wider community, they are customers, and nine concerns and changing tastes and needs.
We also out of ten live within a mile of their store.
Many are demand high ethical standards.
Were committed to providing a safe, healthy and productive working environment.
We want colleagues to benefit from their time at work Respect for our environment and provide a range of training and development Ten years ago we were the first major British opportunities.
food retailer to publish a comprehensive report on our environmental performance.
Weve built This year, donations to charitable organisations on that commitment, reporting regularly on and other community projects totalled 5.6 million.
In addition, we made significant contributions to other The environment is integrated into our commercial community-related initiatives and our Active Kids decision-making and we always work to minimise scheme donated 12.5 million at cost to schools.
any potentially adverse effects of our operations.
Sainsburys colleagues, customers and suppliers Were as committed to investing in improving impacts raised 3.25 million for charities such as Home-Start such as emissions and energy use, as we are about and the Childrens Society, through events supported more tangible things like carrier bags and packaging.
24 24 J S J Sainsbury plc ainsbury plc Annual R Annual Re evie view w and S and Summary Financial S ummary Financial St tat atement 2 ement 2006 006 Taste of Success, supported by the Department for Last year, customers recycled around 100 million Education & Skills, teaches children about food and plastic bags through our recycling collection points.
It includes awards, teacher training sessions They also buy 120,000 of our Bag for Life each week, and an interactive website.
We provided more than saving an estimated 50 million standard bags a year.
Were re-branding the In 140 stores were trialling fully compostable GM-free scheme Active Kids, Get Cooking to combine healthy wrap on organic apples and potatoes, the first of its eating with the healthy lifestyle concept of Active Kids.
We'five donated food since 1998 to charities such as the In a market first, we started selling milk from British Salvation Army, FareShare and Food For All.
The food farms converting to organic standards in May 2006. is safe, edible and nutritious, beyond its display-by Demand for organic milk outstrips UK supply so were date but within its use-by date.
By March 2006, 270 working with farmers to cover additional associated stores were donating surplus food.
This year we aim costs during conversion and offering 12-month supply to link all supermarkets with a charity.
contracts once the milk is organic.
We led the industry in January 2005 with our Wheel Weve invested extensively in energy efficiency of Health - a multiple traffic light nutritional labelling projects for many years and have trialled state of the system.
Developed after extensive research and following art recycling banks in six London sites which recycle input from the Foods Standards Agency, around 80 per products such as CDs and clothes as well as plastic cent of customers have noticed the labelling and believe and glass.
Were now rolling them out to around it influences what they buy.
Were a long-standing supporter of the Fairtrade mark and We have industry-leading fish sustainability plans, the UKs leading Fairtrade supermarket.
Weve introduced supported by the Marine Conservation Society Marine many new products such as the UKs first Fairtrade MCS, which included the removal of skate Conservation baby food.
In February we placed the UKs single largest and huss in February 2006.
We were also Society MCS Fairtrade cotton order for 200,000 T-shirts to support first to sell Marine Stewardship Council MSC Sport Relief.
approved cod, one of the most endangered fish species.
Our new healthy apple stamp is the symbol of health We sold over 6 billion of British products in our at Sainsburys.
A sales increase of almost 15 per cent stores last year and encouraging local producers is a for products carrying the apple stamp indicates the key part of our sourcing strategy.
Buying from smaller underlying concept of encouraging healthier choices suppliers can stimulate local economies and we currently has worked in 2005 06. stock 3,500 locally produced products.
Active Kids provides schools with activity equipment Our Local Heroes awards recognise colleagues who in return for vouchers earned in store.
In 2005 we attracted donate time and effort to good causes outside work 80 per cent of all UK primary and secondary schools, and and donated 250,000 in 2005 06.
We match funds donated activity equipment worth over 17 million.
The raised with between 200 and 500.
Colleagues who 2006 scheme has over 30,000 schools and nurseries volunteer in their own time receive 200 for their now registered.
Weve supported Comic Reliefs Red Nose Day since Talkback is our internal colleague feedback survey 1999 and now also support Sport Relief as part of a which now operates on a rolling basis.
It provides us six-year deal which runs until 2011.
Money raised helps with a monthly snapshot of colleague engagement talkback take part and help make your future!
poor and disadvantaged people in the UK and some across all areas of our business.
We have seen marked of the poorest countries in the world to help make improvements in the scores we have achieved during long-term changes to their lives.
J S J Sainsbury plc ainsbury plc Annual R Annual Re evie view and S w and Summary Financial S ummary Financial St tat atement 2 ement 2006 006 25 25 J Sainsbury plc: Board of Directors Philip Hampton Justin King Darren Shapland Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman Appointed 29 March 2004.
Chairman of the Appointed 1 August 2005.
Philip Hampton was Operating Board and Director of Sainsburys Finance Director of Carpetright plc 2002-2005, Group Finance Director of Lloyds TSB Group plc Bank plc.
Formerly Director of Food, Marks & and Finance Director of Superdrug Stores 2002-2004, Group Finance Director of BT Spencer.
Between 1988-2000 carried Group plc 2000-2002, Group Finance Director at ASDA Wal-Mart in Trading, HR and Retail.
out a number of positions at Arcadia plc of the BG Group plc formerly British Gas plc Previously Managing Director of Haagen Dazs formerly Burton Group including Joint 1995-2000, Group Finance Director of British UK.
Early career with Mars Confectionery and Managing Director, Arcadia Home Shopping: Steel plc 1990-1995, Executive director of Pepsi International.
Age 44 Finance Director of Arcadia brands: Finance Lazards 1981-1990, Non-Executive Director Director, Top Shop Top Man Burton Group of RMC Group plc 2002-2005.
He led the and Director of Supply Chain Programme, Hampton Review for HM Treasury.
Age 39 a Non-Executive Director of Belgacom the Belgian telecom group since 2004.
Age 52 Jamie Dundas Gary Hughes Bridget Macaskill Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 September 2000.
Currently a Chief Executive of MEPC plc which he joined of CMP Information a division of United Director of the Federal National Mortgage as Finance Director in 1997, and prior to that Business Media plc.
Formerly Group Finance Association and a Non-Executive Director Finance Director of the Hong Kong Airport Director of Emap plc, Group Finance Director of Prudential plc since 2003.
Non-Executive Director of SMG plc, Deputy Finance Director of Forte Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of of Standard Chartered PLC and Drax Group plc.
plc, and prior to this held a number of senior OppenheimerFunds and Non-Executive Chairman of Macmillan Cancer Relief.
Age 55 management positions with Guinness plc in Director of Prudential plc 1999-2001 and the UK and in North America.
Age 57 Bob Stack Dr John McAdam Anna Ford Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 January 2005.
Retired from the BBC Beverages in the US in 1990 and joined the Executive of ICI plc, having joined Unilever as in April 2006 after 30 years of service.
Cadbury Schweppes plc Board in May 1996 a management trainee in 1974 where he held She has been a trustee of the Royal Botanical as Group Human Resources Director.
In a number of senior positions in Birds Eye Walls, Gardens in Kew, London: is Chancellor of March 2000 he was appointed Chief Human Quest, and Unichema, before the sale of the Manchester University: a Fellow of the Royal Resources Officer and took on responsibility Specialty Chemical Businesses to ICI in 1997.
Geographical Society and an Honorary for communication and external affairs in He is also a member of the University of Surrey Bencher of Middle Temple.
Age 55 Business Advisory Board and the University of Cambridge Chemistry Advisory Board.
Formerly Non-Executive Director of Severn Key to Committee Members Trent plc 2000-2005.
Age 58 Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Denotes Chairman of Committee Life President Note: Gary Hughes became Chairman of the Audit Lord Sainsbury of Preston Candover KG Committee on 10 May 2006 taking over from Jamie Dundas.
26 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 The Operating Board is responsible for the daytoday running of the business.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer are also part of this team.
Mike Coupe Tim Fallowfield Ken McMeikan Trading Director appointed to the Operating Company Secretary since 2001.
Tim joined Retail Director appointed to the Operating Board in October 2004.
Joined Sainsburys from Exel plc, formerly NFC plc, the global Board in February 2005.
Ken joined Sainsburys from Big Food Group where he was a Board logistics company where he was Company from Tesco plc where he worked for 14 years.
Director of Big Food Group plc and Managing Secretary and Head of Legal Services 1994 He was appointed Chief Executive for Tesco Director of Iceland Food Stores.
Prior to this worked at Clifford Chance Japan having previously been appointed worked for both Asda and Tesco plc.
Chief Executive of Admin Stores following its acquisition by Tesco.
Before joining Tesco Gwyn Burr Imelda Walsh he worked for Sears plc for four years.
Joined the HR Director since October 2001 and appointed Operating Board in 2004.
Gwyn has over to the Operating Board when it was formed Roger Burnley 20 years business experience, including in May 2004.
Before this was a member of Supply Chain Director appointed to the five with Nestle Rowntree and over 13 with the Board of Sainsburys Supermarkets Ltd Operating Board in March 2006.
At Asda, she held various from March 2003.
Prior to joining Sainsburys, was previously Supply Chain Director at Board level positions across Own Brand, worked as the HR Director for Barclays Retail Matalan.
He spent his early career in retail Marketing, Customer Service and Retail.
Previous roles within the management and buying at B&Q before joining Barclays Group included Group Employee Policy ASDA Wal-Mart, where he held a number and Planning Director, HR Director, Corporate of positions before becoming Supply Chain Darren Shapland See page 26.
Banking and Group HR Development Director.
Previously worked for Coca-Cola and Justin King See page 26.
Photo taken at the Food Centre at Sainsburys Store Support Centre, London, where the Operating Board carries out regular sampling of products.
From left to right: Mike Coupe, Gwyn Burr, Darren Shapland, Justin King, Tim Fallowfield, Imelda Walsh, Ken McMeikan and Roger Burnley.
Summary financial statement Summary Directors report The Board Annual General Meeting The Board is chaired by Philip Hampton, who was appointed The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday 12 July Chairman on 19 July 2004.
At 16 May 2006, the Board 2006 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad consisted of two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The Notice of Directors, in addition to the Chairman.
Dr John McAdam, Meeting and the proxy card are enclosed with this Review.
Chief Executive of ICI plc, was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 September 2005.
Darren Shapland was appointed Remuneration policy to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 1 August 2005, The Remuneration report is set out on pages 41 to 49 of the replacing Roger Matthews who retired from the Board on Annual Report and Financial Statements.
June fide Moller retired from the Board with It is the intention of the Committee that Executive and effect from 1 September 2005.
Anna Ford joined the Board Operating Board Directors remuneration should be on 2 May 2006.
Bridget Macaskill will retire from the Board competitive, both in terms of base salary and total after this years Annual General Meeting AGM.
remuneration, taking into account the individual Directors Biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 26. role, performance and experience.
This approach is designed to promote the Companys short and long-term success Corporate governance through securing high calibre executive talent.
Basic salary During the year, the Company has complied with the provisions is targeted around the median of the market with an of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code opportunity to earn above median levels of total reward in except that, at the start of the year, there was a vacancy in return for exceptional performance.
A significant proportion the role of Senior Independent Director which was filled when of the total remuneration package is performance related, John McAdam was appointed on 1 September 2005. aligning managements and shareholders interests.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the The Committee determined at the time of the Business Review Chairman and Chief Executive which is set out in writing and in October 2004 that new long-term incentive arrangements has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman satisfied the were required in order to address the lack of effective independence criteria of the Code on his appointment and all incentives in place for all management levels, including of the Non-Executive Directors who have served during the supermarket store managers, and to incentivise the year are considered independent according to the principles management team to deliver the major sales led recovery.
During the year the Board has undertaken In 2005, shareholders approved the J Sainsbury plc Share a formal evaluation of its performance and effectiveness, Plan 2005, which provided for the grant of a single cycle and of its Committees and individual Directors.
incentive specifically designed to drive the delivery of the recovery strategy.
During the consultation with shareholders The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the and institutions on the design of this plan, the Committee Audit and Remuneration Committees, each of which consists indicated its intention to carry out a more general review of exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors, and remuneration arrangements during 2005 06, with the aim of to the Nomination Committee, which is chaired by Philip formulating a longer term incentive strategy for the future.
Hampton and comprises each of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the The total remuneration review, conducted with the assistance Companys website www.
of Deloitte and Touche LLP, assessed the competitiveness of the Companys existing executive remuneration arrangements against UK retail companies of a similar size.
A secondary Performance and dividend benchmarking group comprising around 50 FTSE 100 A review of the performance of the Company and its principal companies excluding financial services companies of a operating subsidiaries during the year is set out on pages similar size to Sainsburys in terms of market capitalisation 29 to 34 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
was used as an additional reference of market practice.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend This analysis included all elements of remuneration including of 5.85 pence per share 2005: 5.65 pence, making a pensions.
The review showed that total remuneration levels total dividend for the year of 8.00 pence per share for Executive Directors were below median against all 2005: 7.80 pence.
Subject to shareholders approving comparator groups, and it was concluded that the existing this recommendation at the AGM, the dividend will be long-term incentive arrangements the Executive Share paid on 21 July 2006 to shareholders on the register Option Plan and Performance Share Plan were no longer at the close of business on 26 May 2006. aligned to the Companys policy to provide competitive levels of reward to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executive talent.
No further grants will be made under these plans.
As a result, the Committee formulated a new incentive framework the Value Builder framework, which supports the business strategy over the medium to longer term and is consistent with current best practice.
28 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 The Committee agreed that the new incentive strategy should The key terms of these plans are in line with best practice and be based upon a number of key principles so as to: have been designed to safeguard against rewards for failure.
Full details of each plan are set out in the Notice of Annual build on the sales led turnaround by embedding key General Meeting accompanying this review.
measures of financial and capital efficiency: support strong performance of the core business and Performance graph delivery of shareholder value by generating quality The graph below shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR earnings, growing profits and generating cash for future performance of an investment of 100 in J Sainsbury plc investments and or return to shareholders: shares over the last five years compared with an equivalent investment in the FTSE 100 Index.
This has been selected to provide a common focus for the top 1,000 managers provide an established and broad based index.
from Chief Executive to supermarket store managers on critical business measures: retain and motivate talent for the longer term: and 130 120 provide competitive reward opportunities for delivering exceptional performance.
110 100 The new incentive framework, which will be put to shareholders at the 2006 AGM, consists of two elements, a deferred annual 90 bonus plan with a performance related share match and a 80 long-term incentive plan.
These plans have been formulated 70 following consultation with around 20 major shareholders, the 60 Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
March March March March March March 01 02 03 04 05 06 J Sainsbury plc FTSE 100 Index The remuneration of the Directors for the year was as follows: Cash 12 12 payment Pension Total Total 7 9 10 Salary fees Bonus on joining Benefits supplement 2006 2005 Note 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Justin King 1 700 590 - 32 149 1,471 1,131 Darren Shapland 2,8 261 180 120 10 48 619 - Philip Hampton 395 - - 3 - 398 274 Jamie Dundas 55 - - - - 55 47 Gary Hughes 3 45 - - - - 45 11 Bridget Macaskill 45 - - - - 45 37 John McAdam 4 31 - - - - 31 - Bob Stack 55 - - - - 55 13 Directors who have left the Company during the year Roger Matthews 5 148 - - 5 - 153 690 June fide Moller 6 20 - - - - 20 37 1 Highest paid Director.
9 Benefits include company car benefits and medical insurance.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 August 2005.
10 Justin King and Darren Shapland are members of the Executive Stakeholder Pension Plan.
They receive a cash pension supplement equal to 25 per cent in the case of 3 Gary Hughes fees were paid to Emap plc until 25 May 2005.
Justin King and 20 per cent in the case of Darren Shapland of the amount by 4 Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2005. which their salaries exceed the earnings cap 2005 06: 105,600.
11 As previously disclosed in last years report, under the settlement agreed with 6 Left the Board on 1 September 2005.
Sir Peter Davis in 2004, the Company made periodic payments to him in 2005 06 7 Includes performance bonuses earned in the period under review, but not paid in lieu of salary until 31 July 2005 totalling 166,667. in the financial year.
12 The totals for 2004 05 and 2005 06 do not include deductions made from basic 8 As previously disclosed Darren Shapland received a payment of 120,000 as salary for Saving Money and Reducing Tax SMART pensions.
he gave up valuable entitlements worth approximately 300,000 arising from 13 The aggregate remuneration and compensation of the Directors for the year the Carpetright Executive Incentive Plans when he joined the Company.
received restricted shares to the value of 180,000 see page 31.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 29 Summary financial statement Summary Directors report continued Options over ordinary shares Directors options under the Companys Executive Share Option Scheme and Savings Related Share Option Scheme are summarised below: Total Granted Exercised Lapsed Total 26 March during the during the during the 26 March 2005 year year year 2006 Executive Share Option Plan Roger Matthews 1,388,666 - - 331,661 1,057,005 Savings Related Share Option Scheme Justin King - 6,969 - - 6,969 Justin King surrendered 1,007,607 options granted to him under the Executive Share Option Plan when he joined the J Sainsbury plc Share Plan 2005.
The options outstanding under the Companys Executive Share Option Plan and Savings Related Share Option Scheme are exercisable at prices between 231.00 pence and 427.00 pence.
Performance Share Plan Under the Plan, shares conditionally allocated to individuals are released to them in the form of options if the performance condition is met at the end of the three-year performance period.
The conditional allocations for 2003 and 2004 are shown below: Conditional Conditional award award 22 May 2003 20 May 2004 Justin King 184,762 Roger Matthews 90,820 47,613 The above figures for 2003 and 2004 show the maximum award that would be released provided that the Company achieves first position within the comparator group at the end of the threeyear performance period.
The comparator group comprises 12 other companies.
Shares to the value of 30 per cent of salary will be released at median performance.
Awards will be pro rated at every position between the median and first position in the comparator group.
The conditional awards for Roger Matthews show the awards following pro rating.
Since the end of the financial year it has been confirmed that, as a result of the TSR calculation for the 2003 allocation, 45,410 will be released to Roger Matthews on 17 May 2006.
On joining the Company, Justin King received a cash equivalent award, which will be pro rated on a time basis over the performance period, as if he had received a conditional award under the grant made in May 2003.
Based on performance and pro rated time he will receive a cash amount in respect of 65,789 shares at the end of May 2006.
J Sainsbury plc Share Plan 2005 The table below shows the awards which would be released if the Company achieves maximum vesting.
Date of Core share Personal Maximum First exercise Last exercise 1 2 grant award investment share award date date Justin King 24.03.05 237,508 118,754 1,662,556 14.05.08 23.03.10 Darren Shapland 01.08.05 102,558 70,224 793,686 14.05.08 23.03.10 1 The maximum share award excludes the personal investment shares acquired by Justin King and Darren Shapland, which must be held for the duration of the plan.
2 Depending on performance, partial vesting may occur following the Preliminary Results announcement in 2008.
3 The maximum award is targeted towards sales growth of 2.5 billion, and compound annual growth in EPS of at least 21 per cent over a fouryear period.
Vesting will be calculated by applying a performance multiplier to the core award and personal investment: this is on a sliding scale from 0.5 times to 5 times and is plotted in a matrix format.
4 The J Sainsbury plc Share Plan is a nil cost option plan.
30 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Restricted Share Plans As previously disclosed, both Justin King and Darren Shapland gave up valuable entitlements arising from the Marks and Spencer Executive Incentive plans and Carpetright Executive Incentive Plans respectively when they joined the Company.
The Committee agreed to compensate them for these lost entitlements, but rather than making a cash payment, awards of restricted shares were made.
As the awards compensate them for lost entitlements there are no performance conditions.
Shares will be released on the vesting dates if they remain employees of the Company on the relevant dates.
The awards will vest before the release dates if their service contracts are terminated by the Company other than for cause, in the event of death or on a change of control, unless the awards are replaced by the acquiring company.
If they leave employment for any other reason, the awards will be forfeited.
Notional gains on release at Number of Number Number 286.00 pence restricted Date of Date of of shares of shares per share Vesting shares award release released lapsed 000 date Justin King 191,204 27.03.04 01.06.05 191,204 - 546.8 - 70,746 27.03.04 ---- 01.06.06 Justin King retained 112,810 shares arising out of the 2005 release: the remainder was used to fund the income tax and national insurance charge relating to the release.
Notional Number of Number Number gains on restricted Date of Date of of shares of shares release Vesting shares award release released lapsed 000 date Darren Shapland 32,200 01.08.05 ---- 01.08.06 32,200 01.08.05 ---- 01.08.07 In the period from 26 March 2005 to 25 March 2006, the highest mid-market price of the Companys shares was 335.00 pence and the lowest mid-market price was 271.75 pence and as at 25 March 2006 was 330.75 pence.
Directors interests Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and shares held in trust on behalf of Directors are as follows: 2,3 Ordinary shares 26 March 25 March 16 May 6 2005 2006 2006 Justin King - 231,915 231,984 Philip Hampton - 25,000 25,000 Darren Shapland - 51,243 51,243 Jamie Dundas 1,050 1,050 1,050 Gary Hughes - 15,100 15,100 Bridget Macaskill 2,187 2,187 2,187 John McAdam - 1,000 1,000 5 Bob Stack 2,800 2,800 2,800 1 The above table has not been audited.
2 Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the Directors personal holdings and those of their spouses and minor children.
They also include the beneficial interests in shares which are held in trust under the Sainsburys Share Purchase Plan.
3 The Executive Directors are potential beneficiaries of the Companys employee benefit trusts, which are used to satisfy awards under the Companys employee share plans, and are therefore treated as interested in the 23.8 million shares 2004 05: 24.7 million held by the Trustees.
4 The Companys Register of Directors interests contains full details of Directors interests, shareholdings and options over ordinary shares of the Company.
5 Held in the form of 700 American Depositary Receipts.
6 Includes shares purchased under the Sainsburys Share Purchase Plan between 25 March 2006 and 16 May 2006.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 31 Summary financial statement Summary financial review Summary Group income statement for the 52 weeks to 25 March 2006 2006 2005 m m Continuing operations Revenue 16,061 15,202 Operating profit loss 229 151 Finance income 30 44 Finance costs 155 132 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures - 1 Profit loss before taxation 104 238 Analysed as: 1 Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations 267 238 Business Review and Transformation operating costs 51 497 IT insourcing 63 - Profit on sale of properties 1 21 Financing fair value movements 12 - Debt restructuring costs 38 - 104 238 Income tax expense credit 46 51 Profit loss from continuing operations 58 187 Discontinued operations Profit attributable to discontinued operations - 375 Profit for the financial year 58 188 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 64 184 Minority interests 6 4 58 188 Earnings losses per share pence pence Basic 3.8 4.1 Diluted 3.8 4.1 From continuing operations: Basic 3.8 17.4 Diluted 3.8 17.4 1 Profit before tax from continuing operations before any gain or loss on the sale of properties, impairment of goodwill, financing fair value movements and one off items that are material and infrequent in nature.
In the current financial year, these one off items were the Business Review costs, IT insourcing costs and debt restructuring costs.
32 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Income statement Sales inc VAT from continuing operations increased by 5.8 per cent to 17,317 million 2004 05: 16,364 million.
Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations improved 12.2 per cent to 267 million 2004 05: 238 million.
Profit before tax from continuing operations was 104 million 2004 05: 238 million loss.
Sales and underlying operating profit were as follows: 2006 2005 % Continuing operations m m change Sales inc VAT Retailing Supermarkets and Convenience 16,987 16,076 5.7 Financial services Sainsburys Bank 330 288 14.6 Total sales inc VAT 17,317 16,364 5.8 1 Underlying operating profit from continuing operations Retailing Supermarkets and Convenience 352 308 14.3 Financial services Sainsburys Bank 10 17 158.8 Total underlying operating profit from continuing operations 342 325 5.2 1 Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations before finance income and finance costs.
Retailing Sales inc VAT increased by 5.7 per cent to 16,987 million 2004 05: 16,076 million and 6.1 per cent on an Easter adjusted basis, with significant contributions from like-for-like growth, new space and petrol.
Easter adjusted like-for-like sales excluding petrol were up 3.7 per cent, with strong performances delivered within food, non-food and Convenience.
The positive sales growth during the year was achieved with increased volumes, being offset by grocery price deflation of 1.5 per cent, as a result of continued investment in the customer offer.
Sales inc VAT before petrol and Sainsburys Bank increased 722 million.
This is a key indicator of underlying supermarket performance and the sales measure used within the J Sainsbury plc Share Plan 2005.
This performance is an important first step towards the commitment to grow these sales by 2.5 billion as part of the Making Sainsburys Great Again recovery plan.
New space provided a significant contribution to sales growth during the year, with 367,000 square feet of floor space added, an increase of 2.2 per cent, of which 0.6 per cent was from extensions.
During the year 14 new supermarkets, including a further nine Safeway branded stores purchased from Morrisons, and 20 new convenience stores were opened, five of which related to the acquisition of SL Shaw Ltd.
The Group made further investment through the completion of nine extensions, 28 refurbishments and one downsize in the supermarket estate and 94 refurbishments and conversions of convenience stores.
Underlying retailing operating profit increased to 352 million 2004 05: 308 million.
Higher sales volumes and cost efficiencies helped mitigate the impact of investment in price and increased store labour costs as improved pricing and service remain core to maintaining focus on what is right for the customer.
Gross margin during the year continued to reflect the commitment to invest 400 million in the customer offer in both price and quality, outlined in the Making Sainsburys Great Again plan.
This helped drive the sales led recovery by ensuring that Sainsburys continues to offer great food at fair prices.
In 2005 06 the operating efficiencies which underpin the Making Sainsburys Great Again plan began to emerge.
Significant improvements were noted in the overall level of stock loss, which given that it coincided with improved availability within stores was even more significant.
Following the completion of the Store Support Centre reorganisation further savings were also realised within the Groups central costs.
In the second half of the year the Group started to see the early benefits of process efficiency in store and supply chain coming through in lower costs.
The Group is on track to deliver the target cost savings identified as part of the recovery plan and plans are in place to deliver the expected level of savings in 2006 07.
However, the Group remains sensitive to increasing external cost pressures on the retail industry, principally relating to increases in rent, rates and general wage pressures.
Additionally, the Groups fixed energy contract is due to expire in October 2006.
This will add an estimated 55 million to energy costs in the second half of 2006 07 and an additional 20 million in the first half of 2007 08.
Financial services Sainsburys Bank Sainsburys Bank increased total income by 14.6 per cent to 330 million 2004 05: 288 million, continuing to expand its customer base through the sale of its core products: personal loans, savings accounts, credit cards, and general and life insurance.
Customer accounts grew by 8.3 per cent during the year and net operating income was up by 14.3 per cent to 215 million, primarily driven by an increase in fee and commission income as the Group looks to expand and increase revenue streams.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 33 Summary financial statement Summary financial review continued During a more challenging year for the financial services industry, Sainsburys Bank delivered an underlying operating loss of 10 million 2004 05: 17 million profit.
This was driven by provisions for bad and doubtful debts, which increased in the year to 106 million 2004 05: 64 million.
The increase reflects the high volume of business written in 2003 and 2004 which, linked to a more indebted economic environment and with weaker levels of consumer confidence, has required additional provisions to be made.
Steps have been taken during the year to tighten credit policy on unsecured lending and significant progress has been made in credit management of Sainsburys Banks lending portfolio.
The prior year comparative has been restated to reflect a reclassification of interest expense from operating profit into finance costs to ensure it is consistent with the treatment for the year ending 25 March 2006.
The impact of this reclassification is to increase Sainsburys Bank 2004 05 underlying operating profit and the Groups finance costs by 4 million.
Underlying net finance costs Underlying net finance costs net finance costs pre financing fair value movements and debt restructuring costs decreased by 13 million to 75 million 2004 05: 88 million, with a 27 million reduction in underlying finance costs being offset by lower finance income of 14 million.
Finance income fell due to a reduction in interest receivable in the year as in the prior year interest was earned from the cash proceeds realised from the disposal of Shaws Supermarkets in the first half.
This was partially offset by an increase in the net return on pensionable assets recognised in the year.
Underlying finance costs were down as a result of lower average net debt during the second half of the year, improved working capital management and higher capitalised interest reflecting an increase in expenditure on long-term new developments.
Debt restructuring costs On 24 March 2006 the Group repurchased all its outstanding unsecured bonds totalling 1.7 billion with the proceeds from an issue of 2.1 billion of secured debt the debt restructuring.
The long-term financing arrangement has been secured over 127 freehold and leasehold supermarkets and is repayable over 12 and 25 year terms.
This transaction has enabled the Group to borrow at lower interest rates and provides a flexible financing platform for the future.
Interest savings of 12 million are expected in 2006 07, although no benefit has been realised within 2005 06.
The one off charge associated with the debt restructuring was 38 million.
IT insourcing costs On 28 April 2006 the Group successfully completed the migration of IT services previously provided by Accenture, as announced on 27 October 2005.
This involved the transfer of all assets, third party contracts and approximately 470 colleagues back into the Group, resulting in a one off charge during the year of 63 million, which future cost savings are expected to pay back in less than two years.
Business Review and Transformation costs Business Review costs of 51 million were incurred during the year, in line with guidance at the last year end.
This represents the final tranche of costs bringing the total operating charges associated with the Business Review and Transformation over the two years to 548 million.
Profit on sale of properties Surplus assets were sold in the year generating total cash proceeds of 164 million 2004 05: 266 million and an overall profit on sale of 1 million 2004 05: 21 million.
This is a result of aligning the asset base to the future needs of the business by disposing of trading and non-trading assets that were deemed surplus to requirements.
The Group will continue to dispose of surplus assets but expect proceeds to return to more modest levels of around 50 million.
Financing fair value movements The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes.
However, certain swaps, while providing effective economic hedges, do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 and changes in the fair value of non-qualifying derivative instruments are recognised in the income statement.
These are non-cash and inherently volatile movements and are therefore excluded from the definition of underlying profit.
Fair value movements for the year resulted in a 12 million loss, of which 4 million relates to the Bank.
The Group took the option to defer the implementation of IAS 32 and IAS 39 to the 2005 06 year end and these standards are not applied to the results of the prior year.
Taxation The income tax charge was 46 million 2004 05: credit of 51 million, with an underlying rate of 35.5 per cent 2004 05: 37.4 per cent and an effective rate of 44.2 per cent 2004 05: 21.4 per cent.
34 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Earnings per share and dividends Underlying basic earnings per share from continuing operations increased from 8.3 pence to 10.5 pence.
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations increased to 3.8 pence 2004 05: 17.4 pence loss as the previous year was impacted by the higher level of one off costs.
A final dividend of 5.85 pence per share is proposed 2004 05: 5.65 pence and will be paid on 21 July 2006 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 26 May 2006.
The total proposed dividend for the year is 8.00 pence 2004 05: 7.80 pence.
Underlying dividend cover increased in the year to 1.3 times 2004 05: 1.1 times.
As outlined in 2004 05, it remains the medium-term objective to restore dividend cover calculated as underlying post-tax earnings divided by dividends to at least 1.5 times.
Summary cash flow statement for the 52 weeks to 25 March 2006 2006 2005 m m Operating cash flows 780 946 Net interest 156 83 Taxation 3 71 Cash flow before appropriations 627 792 Purchase of fixed assets operations 561 823 Sale of fixed asset operations 151 1,383 Bond buy back costs 22 - Proceeds from issue of shares 22 5 Dividends paid 131 254 B share dividends paid - 113 Repayment of short-term borrowings 299 130 Increase repayment of long-term borrowings 364 176 Capital redemption 9 549 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 142 135 Increase decrease in debt 65 306 Loans and finance leases disposed with subsidiaries - 230 1 Movement in underlying net debt 77 671 Closing IAS 32 and IAS 39 adjustments 51 - Foreign exchange adjustments - 24 Movement in net debt 26 647 Opening net debt 1,441 2,088 Closing net debt 1,415 1,441 1 Underlying net debt: net debt before IAS 32 and IAS 39 adjustments.
On an underlying basis Group net debt has improved by 77 million with 41 million attributable to Retailing and 36 million to Financial services.
The improvement in Retailing is despite the impact to net debt resulting from the 110 million pension contribution made during the year and the unwinding of the benefit noted in 2004 05 as a result of Easter falling at the year end.
This reflects closer management of working capital and underlying profit growth.
This performance highlights that the Group has achieved the objective of positive cash flow in 2005 06, which is ahead of the expectation set out within the Making Sainsburys Great Again plan.
The Group is working towards a cash neutral position in 2006 07, before the additional one off pension contribution of 240 million and the 93 million cash impact of 2005 06 one off items.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 35 Summary financial statement Summary financial review continued Summary Group balance sheet at 25 March 2006 2006 2005 m m Non-current assets 8,902 8,630 Current assets 3,845 2,988 Total assets 12,747 11,618 Current liabilities 4,810 5,036 Net current liabilities 965 2,048 Non-current liabilities 3,972 2,470 Net assets 3,965 4,112 Equity shareholders funds 3,886 4,027 Minority interests 79 85 Total equity 3,965 4,112 Shareholders funds decreased by 141 million in the year to 3,886 million, with gearing increasing to 36 per cent 2004 05: 35 per cent.
Pensions At the time of the debt refinancing, the Group made a commitment to make a one off contribution of 350 million into the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
110 million of this was paid into the scheme on 24 March 2006, with a further 240 million in May 2006.
In addition, the Group has agreed to increase annual contributions by 18 million to 38 million from March 2007.
These contributions along with the 350 million one off contribution are expected to fund the reported deficit calculated under IAS 19 as at 8 October 2005 over the next eight years.
An actuarial valuation of the UK defined benefit pension schemes as at 29 March 2003 indicated a deficit of 161 million: the next actuarial valuation is currently in progress.
At the 25 March 2006, the IAS 19 deficit after deferred tax is 431 million 2004 05: 375 million.
The increase in the IAS 19 deficit is primarily a result of bond yields falling, impacting the discount rate by 60 basis points during the year, partially offset by the one off contribution of 110 million and the rise in the value of investments during the same period.
Capital expenditure Capital expenditure reduced in the year to 525 million 2004 05: 901 million which included the acquisition of stores from Morrisons, down on the 550 million previously forecast.
Retail capital expenditure excluding the acquisition and development of Safeway Morrisons stores and the acquisition of subsidiaries was 479 million 2004 05: 457 million, an increase of 22 million on the prior year.
This capital expenditure included 133 million 2004 05: 128 million on new stores, 53 million 2004 05: 51 million on extensions, and 193 million 2004 05: 109 million on refurbishments, which includes 28 of the 131 stores that have received limited investment for a number of years.
Further expenditure of 100 million 2004 05: 169 million was incurred in relation to IT investments, supply chain and central projects.
Capital expenditure in 2006 07 is expected to increase to between 650 million and 700 million as a result of the carry over from the prior year, additional extensions, the extra refurbishments to be completed as part of the Making Sainsburys Great Again plan and the development of the new store pipeline.
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These are the Groups first consolidated financial statements under IFRS and therefore IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has been applied.
Overall there are no material differences between underlying profit on an IFRS or UK GAAP basis and the impact of the IFRS adjustments to underlying profit before tax are consistent with guidance given on 16 November 2005.
Darren Shapland Chief Financial Officer 36 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Independent Auditors report We have examined the Annual Review and Summary Basis of opinion Financial Statement of J Sainsbury plc.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The Auditors statement on the summary financial Respective responsibilities of Directors statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for and Auditors use in the United Kingdom.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement in accordance Opinion with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you In our opinion the Annual Review and Summary Financial our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the Annual Report and Statement within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Financial Statements, the Report of the Directors and Statement with the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Remuneration report of J Sainsbury plc for the year the Report of the Directors and the Remuneration report, ended 25 March 2006 and complies with the applicable and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained  LLP in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors consider the implications for our report if we become aware London of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
16 May 2006 This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 1 The maintenance and integrity of the J Sainsbury plc website is the responsibility and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, of the Directors: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements any other person to whom this statement is shown or into since they were initially presented on the website.
whose hands it may come, save where expressly agreed by 2   our prior consent in writing.
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Notice of the Meeting and For further information contact: The Share Centre, PO Box the proxy card for the meeting are enclosed with this Review.
Telephone: 01296 414141 or free phone 08000 282812 and quote Sainsburys.
Company website J Sainsbury plc interim and annual reports and results announcements are available via the internet on our Company Tax information Capital Gains Tax CGT website at www.
As well as providing For CGT purposes, the market value of ordinary shares share price data and financial history, the site also provides on 31 March 1982 adjusted for all capital adjustments was background information about the Company, regulatory and 91.99 pence and B Shares 10.941 pence.
news releases and current issues.
Shareholders can receive email notification of results and press announcements as they Share capital consolidation are released by registering on the page called Email news The original base cost of shares apportioned between ordinary 4 service in the Investor section of the website.
shares of 28 7 pence and B Shares is made by reference to the market value of each class of shares on the first day for which Registrars a market value is quoted after the new holding comes into For information about the AGM, shareholdings, dividends and existence.
The market value for CGT purposes of any share to report changes to personal details, shareholders should or security quoted on the Stock Exchange Daily Official List is contact: Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, generally the lower of the two quotations on any day plus one The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH.
quarter of the difference between the values.
On Monday 19 July 2004 the values were determined as follows: New ordinary shares 257.50 pence Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP B Shares 35 pence The Company has a DRIP, which allows shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys shares bought in the market through a specially arranged share dealing Deferred shares service.
No new shares are allotted under this plan and some The 320,050,073 deferred shares created on 19 July 2004 33,843 shareholders participate in it.
Full details of the plan were redeemed and cancelled by the Company at the close and its charges, together with mandate forms, are available of business on 13 May 2005 for a total consideration of one from the Registrars.
pence in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Return of Capital circular issued to shareholders in June 2004.
Key dates for the final dividend are as follows: Last date for return or revocation Investor relations For investor enquiries please contact: Lynda Ashton, Head of plan mandates 30 June 2006 of Investor Relations, J Sainsbury plc, Store Support Centre, Plan shares purchased for participants 21 July 2006 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT.
Plan share certificates issued 3 August 2006 American Depositary Receipts ADRs Individual Savings Account ISA The Company has a sponsored Level I ADR programme for A corporate ISA is available from The Share Centre Ltd and which The Bank of New York acts as depositary.
offers a tax efficient way of holding shares in the Company.
Both a Maxi and Mini ISA are available.
For further information The ADRs are traded on the over-the-counter OTC market contact: The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Oxford Road, in the US under the symbol JSYNSY, where one ADR is equal Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire HP21 8ZB.
Telephone: 01296 414141 or free phone 08000 282812 All enquiries relating to ADRs should be addressed to: and quote Sainsburys.
The Bank of New York, Investor Relations, PO Box 11258, Church Street Station, New York, NY 10286-1258.
Toll Free Telephone # for domestic callers: 1-888-BNY-ADRS.
38 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Electronic communications for shareholders Financial calendar 2006 07 The Company has set up a facility for shareholders to take advantage of electronic communications.
If you would like to: Dividend and interest payments check the balance and current value of your shareholding Ordinary dividend: and view your dividend history register your email address so that future shareholder Ex-dividend date 24 May 2006 information can be sent to you electronically Record date 26 May 2006 submit your vote online prior to a general meeting Final dividend payable 21 July 2006 Interim dividend payable January 2007 Log on to www.
redemption notices record date 30 June 2006 You will need your 11 character shareholder reference Redemption date 18 July 2006 number located on your latest tax voucher Interest payment date 18 July 2006 5 click on Electronic Shareholder Communication Last date for Registrars to receive January B Share and register online.
redemption notices record date 2 January 2007 Redemption date 18 January 2007 Registered office Auditors Interest payment date 18 January 2007 J Sainsbury plc  LLP 33 Holborn 1 Embankment Place London EC1N 2HT London WC2N 6RH Interest payments Registered number 185647 8% Irredeemable Unsecured Loan Stock 1 March 1 September Solicitors Stockbrokers Linklaters UBS One Silk Street 1 Finsbury Avenue Other dates London EC2Y 8HQ London EC2M 2PP Annual General Meeting 12 July 2006 Hoare Govett Ltd Interim results announced 15 November 2006 250 Bishopsgate London EC2M 4AA Interim report circulated November 2006 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 39 Glossary Active Kids Our nationwide Category review The re-ranging Easter adjustment Like-for-like scheme to help inspire school children and simplification of ranges to ensure sales are impacted by the timing of to take more exercise and to eat more the best choice of products is in place the Good Friday trading week none healthily.
The scheme was launched and displayed appropriately in store.
in 2005 06 and two in 2004 05. for the second time in February 2006 Company J Sainsbury plc.
ESOP Trusts Employee Share and is open to all nursery, primary Ownership Plan Trusts.
co. uk activekids The need to act responsibly in Fairtrade The Fairtrade mark is managing the impact on a range an independent consumer label that ADR American Depositary of stakeholders customers, guarantees a fair deal for marginalised Receipt The over-the-counter colleagues, investors, suppliers, the workers and small scale farmers traded US security.
Producers AGM Annual General Meeting receive a minimum price that covers Debt restructuring On 24 March This year the AGM will be held on the cost of production and an extra 2006 the Group raised new long-term Wednesday 12 July 2006 at The premium that is invested in the local financing secured on 127 of its Queen Elizabeth II Conference community.
Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, Fair value The amount for which London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
Deflation Percentage reduction an asset could be exchanged, in price of products sold.
B shares Preference B shares or a liability settled, between issued on 12 July 2004 as part of the knowledgeable, willing parties Dividend cover Underlying profit Return of Capital scheme in 2004 05. in an arms length transaction.
after tax from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders Basics Sainsburys core sub-brand FSA Food Standards Agency.
divided by total dividends declared range of products, featuring circa during the year.
DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan Gearing Net debt divided by BGtY Be Good to Yourself Allows shareholders to reinvest total equity.
Sainsburys healthier alternative their cash dividend in shares of the sub-brand range of products, featuring Group The Company and its Company through a specially circa 500 products.
into one of three categories: those with less than 3% fat: those with less IAS International Accounting EPS Earnings per share calories, salt and saturated fat than Standard.
Earnings attributable to ordinary standard lines: or plus products that shareholders divided by the weighted are fortified with added ingredients IFRIC International Financial average number of ordinary shares including prebiotics, probiotics Reporting Interpretations Committee.
in issue during the year, excluding and Omega 3. those held by ESOP Trusts, which Income statement Formerly known are treated as cancelled.
Business Review The Groups as the profit and loss account under review which Justin King announced UK GAAP.
on 19 October 2004, called Making Sainsburys Great Again.
40 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 IFRS International Financial SORIE Statement of recognised Underlying net debt Net debt before Reporting Standard s. income and expense.
TtD Taste the Difference Underlying operating profit loss Sainsburys premium sub-brand range Underlying profit loss before tax ISA Individual Savings Account.
of products, featuring circa 900 lines.
from continuing operations before finance income and finance costs.
Kids Sainsburys childrens subTSR Total Shareholder Return range brand featuring 100 products.
The growth in value of a shareholding Wheel of Health Symbol on 1,300 Sainsburys was the first retailer to over a specified period, assuming Sainsburys own-brand products provide GDAs for children aged five that dividends are reinvested to providing customers with accurate to ten years on packaging.
purchase additional units of the stock.
and easy to read labelling featuring five key colour coded nutrients.
Like-for-like sales The measure of Try Something New Today year on year same store sales growth.
The marketing campaign in support of Making Sainsburys Great Again.
TU Sainsburys own label Organic Organic farming prohibits clothing range.
the use of artificial fertilisers, pesticides, growth regulators UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted and additives in livestock feed.
The International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements Underlying basic earnings per share IFOAM accredits national organic Profit after tax from continuing certifying bodies.
operations attributable to equity holders before any gain or loss on Pipeline Sites which the Group has the sale of properties, impairment an interest in developing in the future.
of goodwill, financing fair value movements and one off items that Revenue Sales through retail are material and infrequent in nature, outlets and, in the case of Sainsburys divided by the weighted average Bank, interest receivable, fees number of ordinary shares in issue and commissions.
during the year, excluding those held by the ESOP Trusts, which are treated ROCE Return On Capital Employed.
Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations Profit before Sainsburys SO organic tax from continuing operations Sainsburys organic sub-brand before any gain or loss on the sale range of products, featuring circa of properties, impairment of goodwill, 300 products.
financing fair value movements and one off items that are material and infrequent in nature.
