The Operating Board is responsible for the daytoday running of the business.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer are also part of this team.
Mike Coupe Tim Fallowfield Ken McMeikan Trading Director appointed to the Operating Company Secretary since 2001.
Tim joined Retail Director appointed to the Operating Board in October 2004.
Joined Sainsburys from Exel plc, formerly NFC plc, the global Board in February 2005.
Ken joined Sainsburys from Big Food Group where he was a Board logistics company where he was Company from Tesco plc where he worked for 14 years.
Director of Big Food Group plc and Managing Secretary and Head of Legal Services 1994 He was appointed Chief Executive for Tesco Director of Iceland Food Stores.
Prior to this worked at Clifford Chance Japan having previously been appointed worked for both Asda and Tesco plc.
Chief Executive of Admin Stores following its acquisition by Tesco.
Before joining Tesco Gwyn Burr Imelda Walsh he worked for Sears plc for four years.
Joined the HR Director since October 2001 and appointed Operating Board in 2004.
Gwyn has over to the Operating Board when it was formed Roger Burnley 20 years business experience, including in May 2004.
Before this was a member of Supply Chain Director appointed to the five with Nestle Rowntree and over 13 with the Board of Sainsburys Supermarkets Ltd Operating Board in March 2006.
At Asda, she held various from March 2003.
Prior to joining Sainsburys, was previously Supply Chain Director at Board level positions across Own Brand, worked as the HR Director for Barclays Retail Matalan.
He spent his early career in retail Marketing, Customer Service and Retail.
Previous roles within the management and buying at B&Q before joining Barclays Group included Group Employee Policy ASDA Wal-Mart, where he held a number and Planning Director, HR Director, Corporate of positions before becoming Supply Chain Darren Shapland See page 26.
Banking and Group HR Development Director.
Previously worked for Coca-Cola and Justin King See page 26.
Photo taken at the Food Centre at Sainsburys Store Support Centre, London, where the Operating Board carries out regular sampling of products.
From left to right: Mike Coupe, Gwyn Burr, Darren Shapland, Justin King, Tim Fallowfield, Imelda Walsh, Ken McMeikan and Roger Burnley.
Contents Financial review 29 Governance 35 Report of the Directors 35 Statement of corporate governance 37 Remuneration report 41 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements 50 Financial statements 51 Independent Auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc 51 Group income statement 52 Statements of recognised income and expense 53 Balance sheets 54 Cash flow statements 55 Notes to the financial statements 56 Five year financial record 101 Additional shareholder information & glossary 102 Shareholder information 102 Financial calendar 104 Glossary 105 28 J S J Sainsbury plc ainsbury plc Annual R Annual Repor eport t and Financial S and Financial St tat atement ements s 2 2006 006
