JKX IBC Sect5 AW 11 4 07 13:39 Page 85 85 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE is given that the Annual General Meeting of JKX Oil & Gas plc the Company will be held at the offices of Cardew Group, 12 Suffolk Street, London SW1Y 4HG on Thursday 24 May 2007 at 11.00 am for the following purposes: As ordinary business 1.
To receive the accounts of the Company, the Directors Report, and the Auditors Report thereon for the year ended 31 December 2006.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2006.
To reelect Lord Fraser of Carmyllie Q. C. who retires and whose biographical details are included at page 27 of the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts, as a Director of the Company.
To reelect Viscount Asquith who retires and whose biographical details are included at page 27 of the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts, as a director of the Company.
To reelect Dr Paul Davies who retires and whose biographical details are included at page 27 of the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts, as a director of the Company.
To reelect Bruce Burrows, who retires by rotation and whose biographical details are included at page 27 of the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts, as a director of the Company.
To reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts of the Company are laid before the members are to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
To declare the dividend recommended by the directors of the Company.
As special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution, which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
That the Company may send or supply documents or information to members by making them available on a website or other electronic means.
Special resolutions To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, which will be proposed as special resolutions.
That, in substitution for any existing authority pursuant to section 166 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company be and is hereby generally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act pursuant to and in accordance with section 166 of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares in the capital of the Company upon and subject to the following conditions but otherwise unconditionally: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 15,469,010 representing just under 10% of the ordinary share capital of the Company as at 24 May 2007: b the maximum price which may be paid for each such ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary share is contracted to be purchased exclusive of expenses and the minimum price which may be paid for such ordinary share shall be the nominal value of such ordinary share at the time of such purchase exclusive of expenses : and c unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire on the earlier of the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution and at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed, provided that the Company may before such expiry date enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of such contract.
That article 142 of the Companys articles of association be deleted and replaced by the following: The Company may give any notice to a member either personally or by sending it by post in a prepaid envelope addressed to the member at his address in the Register or by leaving it at that address or by electronic mail to an address notified by the shareholder in writing or via a website the address of which shall be notified to the member in writing.
In the case of joint holders of a share, all notices and other documents shall be given to the joint holder whose name stands first in the Register in respect of the joint holding and notice so given shall be sufficient notice to all the joint holders.
That article 147 of the Companys articles of association be amended by adding the following at the end of that article: Any notice or other document sent by electronic mail, shall be deemed as being delivered at the time it was sent.
Any notice or other document sent by a website shall be deemed as being delivered when the material was first made available on the website, or if later when the recipient received or is deemed to have received notice of the fact that the material was available on the website.
B J Burrows Secretary Registered office: 6 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PD Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is also entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy, together with the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power of authority must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, Lloyds Bank Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the Meeting.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending or voting at the Meeting if they wish.
Copies of the Directors service contracts and the terms of engagement for Nonexecutive Directors, together with the register of Directors share interests, are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on each business day until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and will also be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting from at least 15 minutes prior to the Meeting until its conclusion.
JKX Oil & Gas plc Report and Accounts 2006 JKX IBC Sect5 AW 11 4 07 13:39 Page 87 87 Notes
