Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance Company 117 117 Notes to the company financial statements for the year to 31 December 2006 Accounting Policies The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom.
A summary of the principal accounting policies which have been consistently applied, is set out below.
Reporting currency The Companys transactions are primarily US dollar denominated and the principal functional currency is the US dollar.
The following sterling to US dollar exchange rates have been used in the preparation of these accounts:- Average rate Closing rate 1 US$ 1 US$ Year ended 31 December 2005 1.8170 1.7168 Year ended 31 December 2006 1.8427 1.9572 Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are included in the balance sheet of the Company at cost less any provision for impairment.
Impairment The Company performs impairment reviews in respect of xed asset investments whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount of an asset, which is the higher of the assets net realisable value and its value in use, is less than its carrying amount.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date, with the following exceptions:- provision is made for gains on disposal of xed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets only where, at the balance sheet date, there is a commitment to dispose of the replacement assets.
provision is made for the tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been declared or there is a binding commitment.
on the basis of all available evidence deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable pro ts from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
118 118 John Wood Group PLC John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Annual Report 2006 Notes to the company financial statements for the year to 31 December 2006 Accounting Policies Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction or, where forward contracts have been arranged, at the contractual rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet dates or at a contractual rate if applicable and any exchange differences are taken to the pro t and loss account.
The directors consider it appropriate to record sterling denominated equity share capital in the accounts of John Wood Group PLC at the exchange rate ruling on the date it was raised.
Financial instruments The accounting policy for financial instruments is consistent with the Group accounting policy as presented in the notes to the Group financial statements with the exception of the policy on net investment hedges which does not apply to the Company.
The Companys financial risk management policy is consistent with the Groups financial risk management policy outlined in note 18 to the Group financial statements.
Operating leases As lessee Payments made under operating leases are charged to the pro t and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Use of estimates The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Employee share ownership trusts The Company is deemed to have control of the assets, liabilities, income and costs of its employee share ownership trusts ESOP trusts.
They have therefore been included in the financial statements of the Company.
Under UITF 38 the cost of shares held by the ESOP trusts is deducted from shareholders funds.
Share based charges The Company has a number of share schemes as detailed in the Group accounting policies and notes 21 and 22 to the Group financial statements.
Details relating to the calculation of share based charges are provided in note 21 to the Group financial statements.
In respect of the Company the charge is shown as an increase in the Companys investment, as the employees to which the charge relates are employed by subsidiary companies.
Disclosure of impact of new and future accounting standards The Company has not yet adopted FRS 29 Financial Instruments : Disclosures which is only effective for periods commencing on or after 1 February 2007.
This standard consolidates FRS 13 and the disclosure requirements of FRS 25 relating to financial instruments.
We do not anticipate that this standard will have any material impact on the Companys financial statements.
Energy Supporting Energy Energy Supporting Energy
