12 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Energy supporting energy 2006 Highlights January March May Cairn India awards Mustang a Wood We develop our footprint in the North Africa Following on from our contract with Sevan Group company a multi-million dollar region with the acquisition of Somias Spa, Marine in Brazil, we are appointed by onshore engineering contract in Rajasthan.
a maintenance support provider to the Venture Production as Duty Holder for See p. 15 Algerian oil & gas industry and the award of Sevan Marines new SSP300 FPSO in the an 18-month engineering and construction Chestnut Field, central North Sea.
modi cations contract for the In Amenas See p. 27 project, whose partners are BP, Statoil and Sonatrach.
See p. 26 February April June Our track record in the power operations We extend our relationship with Statoil in A major US operator awards us a fivebusiness wins us a multi-million dollar the Norwegian sector of the North Sea, year, offshore contract for the supply of operations and maintenance contract with signing a contract for engineering on the electric submersible pumps in Bohai Bay, LS Power in the US.
See p. 29 Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Group overview Operational r Operational review and eview and Financial r Financial review and eview and Financial statements Financial statements CSR CSR gover governance finance 13 Our energy delivers: better solutions for our clients, rewarding work for our people, and superior returns to our shareholders.
July September November Trunkline LNG is using our LNG Smart Air We are awarded a major operations and We sign a sixteen-year contract worth Vaporisation process, the first commercial maintenance contract to help enhance $92 million with Suez Energy, to operate application of our patented regasi cation asset integrity for BP in Trinidad.
and maintain gas turbines at the former technology.
See p. 40 See p. 14 Al-Rusail Power Company in Oman.
See p. 32 August October December We open a new of ce in Glasgow to utilise We commit to an investment of $15 million American Electric Power awards us three the resource pool of world-class engineers.
in Saudi Arabia, following the award of new power solutions contracts worth This new of ce is supporting our operations in a major contract with the national oil approximately $195 million in total, to Aberdeen as well as the Middle East, Europe company, Saudi Aramco.
See p. 14 create three new peaking facilities during and North Africa.
