76 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Notes to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2006 Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act, 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modi ed by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of income and expenses during the year.
These estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Signi cant accounting policies The Groups signi cant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements are the result of the consolidation of the financial statements of the Groups subsidiary undertakings from the date of acquisition or up until the date of disposal as appropriate.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies and generally accompanies a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The Groups interests in joint ventures are accounted for using proportional consolidation.
Under this method the Group includes its share of each joint ventures income, expenses, assets, liabilities and cash ows on a line by line basis in the consolidated financial statements.
All Group companies apply the Groups accounting policies and prepare financial statements to 31 December.
Functional currency The Groups earnings stream is primarily US dollars and the principal functional currency is the US dollar, being the most representative currency of the Group.
The Groups financial statements are therefore prepared in US dollars.
Foreign currencies Income statements of entities whose functional currency is not the US dollar are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange for the period and assets and liabilities are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of net assets in such entities held at the beginning of the year, together with those differences resulting from the restatement of pro ts and losses from average to year end rates, are taken to the currency translation reserve.
In each individual entity, transactions in overseas currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The directors consider it appropriate to record sterling denominated equity share capital in the accounts of John Wood Group PLC at the exchange rate ruling on the date it was raised.
