Glossary of technical terms Aero-Derivative Turbine E!CEMS Midstream An industrial gas turbine, the design of which A Mustang proprietary data management Industry activities that fall between exploration is derived from aerospace turbines, generally system that provides an automated, & production upstream and re ning & between 1050 megawatts.
secure and certi able system for capturing, marketing downstream.
Usually refers to calculating and reporting regulatory air the storage and transportation of oil & gas, Arti cial Lift emissions data for a wide range of gases in but in some cases describes the further A technique, which enhances oil recovery, in the environment.
processing of oil & gas from upstream reservoirs that do not have suf cient pressure processing facilities to allow for storage and to produce uid to the surface.
Front End Engineering Design FEED transportation see LNG The stage of design between concept Brown eld evaluation and detailed design during which Pipe Recovery Operations An existing onshore or offshore facility, eg the chosen concept is developed such that Services provided by Wood Group Logging brown eld modi cation is an upgrade to an most key decisions can be taken.
Output of Services which recover equipment and other existing facility.
FEED includes estimate of total installed cost obstructions from drilling wells.
Clean Fuel PSi Pounds per Square Inch Fuel that has been modi ed such that, on FPSO A unit of measurement of pressure.
combustion, it produces lower emissions.
A Floating Production, Storage and Of oading vessel is a oating tank system Slickline Mechanical Services Compliant Piled Tower CPT designed to receive oil or gas produced from Services that lower special tools into the A bottom founded structure viable for a nearby platform, process it, and store it well bore to place or retrieve equipment or installation in water depths to 3,000 feet.
until the oil or gas can be of oaded, or sent to measure and record bottom hole data to through a pipeline.
They are typically used in determine the condition of producing wells.
Debottlenecking deeper waters and often in conjunction with The process of increasing the production subsea facilities.
Subsea Tiebacks capacity of existing facilities through the A method of connecting new discoveries to modi cation of existing equipment to remove Green eld existing production facilities, improving the throughput restrictions.
A new eld development requiring new economics of offshore oil & gas production.
facilities, either onshore or offshore.
Decommissioning Topsides The process for removal of a plant or piece of Heavy Industrial Gas Turbine The surface deck of a platform containing equipment from an operational state.
A gas turbine with a power level generally oil & gas drilling, production and processing greater than 50 megawatts.
Downstream The processing, re ning and distribution of Light Industrial Gas Turbine Upgrade Projects oil & gas.
A gas turbine with a power level generally less Various projects that are undertaken both than 10 megawatts.
onshore and offshore to upgrade or replace Electric Submersible Pump ESP the existing facilities to ensure continued An arti cial lift technique.
An ESP consists Lique ed Natural Gas LNG production over a long period of time.
of a pump, an electric motor and an A natural gas that is lique ed under extremely interconnecting power cable which is lowered cold temperatures and high pressures to Upstream into the well and controlled from the surface.
facilitate storage or transportation in specially The development and production of oil & gas.
Electric Wireline Water Injection Recording services which measure The process where water is injected back LNG Smart Air Vaporisation the physical properties of underground into the oil reservoir to maintain or increase An LNG regasi cation process process that formations, determine the location of pressure and stimulate production.
captures the natural heat in ambient air to completion hardware & perforate the vaporise LNG.
Wellhead The system of spools, valves and assorted LNG Regasi cation adapters that provide surface control of a The process where LNG is reheated and production well.
John Wood Group PLC John Wood House 17420 Katy Freeway Greenwell Road Suite 300 East Tullos Houston Aberdeen AB12 3AX TX 77094 UK USA Tel 44 1224 851000 Tel 1 281 828 3500 www.
