76 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Notes to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2006 Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act, 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modi ed by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of income and expenses during the year.
These estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Signi cant accounting policies The Groups signi cant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements are the result of the consolidation of the financial statements of the Groups subsidiary undertakings from the date of acquisition or up until the date of disposal as appropriate.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies and generally accompanies a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The Groups interests in joint ventures are accounted for using proportional consolidation.
Under this method the Group includes its share of each joint ventures income, expenses, assets, liabilities and cash ows on a line by line basis in the consolidated financial statements.
All Group companies apply the Groups accounting policies and prepare financial statements to 31 December.
Functional currency The Groups earnings stream is primarily US dollars and the principal functional currency is the US dollar, being the most representative currency of the Group.
The Groups financial statements are therefore prepared in US dollars.
Foreign currencies Income statements of entities whose functional currency is not the US dollar are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange for the period and assets and liabilities are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of net assets in such entities held at the beginning of the year, together with those differences resulting from the restatement of pro ts and losses from average to year end rates, are taken to the currency translation reserve.
In each individual entity, transactions in overseas currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The directors consider it appropriate to record sterling denominated equity share capital in the accounts of John Wood Group PLC at the exchange rate ruling on the date it was raised.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance Group 77 Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
Revenue is recognised only when it is probable that the economic bene ts associated with a transaction will ow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are rendered, including where they are based on contractual rates per man hour in respect of multi-year service contracts.
Incentive performance revenues are recognised upon completion of agreed objectives.
Revenue from product sales is recognised when the signi cant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, which is normally upon delivery of products and customer acceptance, if any.
Where revenue relates to a multi-element contract, then each element of the contract is accounted for separately.
Revenues are stated net of sales taxes and discounts.
Revenue on lump-sum contracts for services, construction contracts and xed price long term service agreements, is recognised according to the stage of completion reached in the contract by reference to the value of work done.
An estimate of the pro t attributable to work completed is recognised once the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably.
Expected losses are recognised in full as soon as losses are probable.
The net amount of costs incurred to date plus recognised pro ts less the sum of recognised losses and progress billings is disclosed as trade receivables trade payables.
Goodwill The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for acquisitions.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Intangible assets are recognised if it is probable that there will be future economic bene ts attributable to the asset, the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, the asset is separately identi able and there is control over the use of the asset.
Where the Group acquires a business, other intangible assets such as customer contracts are identi ed and evaluated to determine the carrying value on the acquisition balance sheet.
Other intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Computer software 3 5 years Other intangible assets 1 10 years Property plant and equipment Property plant and equipment PP&E is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
No depreciation is charged with respect to freehold land and assets in the course of construction.
Transfers from PP&E to current assets are undertaken at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method over the following estimated useful lives of the assets: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 25 50 years Short leasehold buildings period of lease Plant and equipment 3 10 years When estimating the useful life of an asset group, the principal factors the Group takes into account are the durability of the assets, the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used and the expected rate of technological developments.
78 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Notes to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2006 Accounting policies Impairment The Group performs impairment reviews in respect of PP&E and other intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
In addition, the Group carries out annual impairment reviews in respect of goodwill.
An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount of an asset, which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, is less than its carrying amount.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash generating unit CGU.
The CGUs are aligned to the business unit and sub-business unit structure the Group uses to manage its business.
Cash ows are discounted in determining the value in use.
Inventories Inventories, which include materials, work in progress and nished goods and goods for resale, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Product based companies determine cost by weighted average cost methods using standard costing to gather material, labour and overhead costs.
These costs are adjusted, where appropriate, to correlate closely the standard costs to the actual costs incurred based on variance analysis.
Service based companies inventories consist of spare parts and other consumables.
Serialised parts are costed using the speci c identi cation method and other materials are generally costed using the first in, first out method.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and estimated selling expenses.
Allowance is made for obsolete and slow-moving items, based upon annual usage.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and other short-term bank deposits with maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts where there is a right of set-off.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings in current liabilities where there is no right of set-off.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The provision is determined by reference to previous experience of recoverability for receivables in each market in which the Group operates.
Deferred consideration Where it is probable that deferred consideration is payable on the acquisition of a business based on an earn out arrangement, an estimate of the amount payable is made at the date of acquisition and reviewed regularly thereafter, with any change in the estimated liability being re ected in goodwill.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance Group 79 Taxation The tax charge represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Tax currently payable is based on the taxable pro t for the year.
Taxable pro t differs from the pro t reported in the income statement due to items that are not taxable or deductible in any period and also due to items that are taxable or deductible in a different period.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided, using the full liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation on PP&E, tax losses carried forward and, in relation to acquisitions, the difference between the fair values of the net assets acquired and their tax base.
Tax rates enacted, or substantially enacted, by the balance sheet date are used to determine deferred income tax.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro ts will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a rm commitment fair value hedge : 2 hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash ow hedge : or 3 hedges of net investments in foreign operations net investment hedge.
Where hedging is to be undertaken, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the inception of the transaction, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of the hedged items.
The Group performs effectiveness testing on a quarterly basis.
a Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
b Cash ow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
80 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Notes to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2006 Accounting policies Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled through the income statement in periods when the hedged item affects pro t or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or liability, the cost of the asset or liability is adjusted by the gains or losses previously held in equity.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
c Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
d Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Certain derivatives, whilst providing effective economic hedges under the Groups treasury policy are not designated as hedges.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not designated for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value estimation The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of their estimated future cash ows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward foreign exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The carrying values of trade receivables and payables approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash ows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Operating leases As lessee Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Bene ts received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the period of lease.
As lessor Operating lease rental income arising from leased assets is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Finance leases As lessee Assets held under finance leases are capitalised as PP&E and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the assets useful life.
The capital element of the future lease obligation is recorded as a liability, with the interest element charged to the income statement over the period of the lease so as to produce a constant rate of charge on the capital outstanding.
As lessor Finance lease rental income arising from leased assets is recognised in the income statement so as to produce a constant rate of return on the net cash investment.
Amounts receivable under finance leases represent the outstanding amounts due under these agreements less amounts allocated to future periods.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance Group 81 Retirement bene t liabilities The Group operates a fide ned bene t scheme and a number of fide ned contribution schemes and these are accounted for under IAS 19 Employee Bene ts.
The liability recognised in respect of the fide ned bene t scheme represents the present value of the fide ned bene t obligations less the fair value of the scheme assets.
The assets of this scheme are held in separate trustee administered funds.
The fide ned bene t schemes assets are measured using market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured annually by an independent actuary using the projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities of the Groups fide ned bene t pension scheme expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged to operating pro t. The expected return on the scheme assets and the increase during the period in the present value of the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in finance income expense.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense in full in the period in which they occur.
The fide ned bene t schemes surpluses, to the extent that they are considered recoverable, or fide cits are recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
The Groups contributions to fide ned contribution schemes are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
Provisions Provision is made for the estimated liability on all products and services still under warranty, including claims already received, based on past experience.
Other provisions are recognised where the Group is deemed to have a legal or constructive obligation, it is probable that a transfer of economic bene ts will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
Share based charges relating to employee share schemes The Group has a number of employee share schemes:- i Share options granted under Executive Share Option Schemes ESOS are granted at market value.
A charge is booked to the income statement as an employee bene t expense for the fair value of share options expected to be exercised, accrued over the vesting period.
The corresponding credit is taken to retained earnings.
The fair value is calculated using an option pricing model.
ii Share options granted under the Long Term Retention Plan LTRP are granted at par value.
The charge to the income statement for LTRP shares is also calculated using an option pricing model and, as with ESOS grants, the fair value of the share options expected to be exercised is accrued over the vesting period.
The corresponding credit is also taken to retained earnings.
iii The Group also has a Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS for directors and key senior executives.
Participants are awarded shares dependent on the achievement of certain performance targets.
The charge to the income statement for shares expected to be awarded under the LTIS is based on the fair value of those shares at the grant date, spread over the vesting period.
For those awards that have a market related performance measure, the fair value of the market related element is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
Proceeds received on the exercise of share options are credited to share capital and share premium.
82 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Notes to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2006 Share capital John Wood Group PLC has one class of ordinary shares and these are classi ed as equity.
Dividends on ordinary shares are not recognised as a liability or charged to equity until they have been approved by shareholders.
The Group is deemed to have control of the assets, liabilities, income and costs of its employee share ownership trusts ESOP trusts.
They have therefore been consolidated in the financial statements of the Group.
Shares acquired by and disposed of by the ESOP trusts are recorded at cost.
The cost of shares held by the ESOP trusts is deducted from shareholders equity.
Segmental reporting The Groups primary reporting segments are its three operating divisions, namely Engineering & Production Facilities, Well Support and Gas Turbine Services.
Engineering & Production Facilities provides a broad range of life-ofeld engineering, modi cations, maintenance and operations services to oil and gas customers worldwide.
Well Support supplies solutions, products and services to increase production rates and recovery from oil and gas reservoirs.
It is among the market leaders worldwide in arti cial lift using electric submersible pumps, in the provision of surface wellheads and valves and, in the Gulf of Mexico and in parts of South America, in the provision of electric wireline and slickline services.
Gas Turbine Services is a world leading independent provider of maintenance, repair and overhaul services for industrial gas turbines and related high speed rotating equipment used for compression, transmission and power generation in the oil and gas and power generation industries.
Disclosure of impact of new and future accounting standards The following standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards were mandatory for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The application of these standards did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
IAS 21 Amendment Net investment in a foreign operation IAS 39 Amendment Cash ow hedge accounting of forecast intragroup transactions IAS 39 Amendment The fair value option IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Amendment Financial guarantee contracts IFRS 1 Amendment First time adoption of international financial reporting standards IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease The Group has not yet adopted the following standards which are only effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures This standard consolidates IAS 30 and the disclosure requirements of IAS 32 relating to financial instruments.
We do not anticipate that this standard will have any material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments This standard replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting and proposes that entities adopt a management approach to reporting financial performance.
