Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance Company 117 117 Notes to the company financial statements for the year to 31 December 2006 Accounting Policies The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom.
A summary of the principal accounting policies which have been consistently applied, is set out below.
Reporting currency The Companys transactions are primarily US dollar denominated and the principal functional currency is the US dollar.
The following sterling to US dollar exchange rates have been used in the preparation of these accounts:- Average rate Closing rate 1 US$ 1 US$ Year ended 31 December 2005 1.8170 1.7168 Year ended 31 December 2006 1.8427 1.9572 Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are included in the balance sheet of the Company at cost less any provision for impairment.
Impairment The Company performs impairment reviews in respect of xed asset investments whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount of an asset, which is the higher of the assets net realisable value and its value in use, is less than its carrying amount.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date, with the following exceptions:- provision is made for gains on disposal of xed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets only where, at the balance sheet date, there is a commitment to dispose of the replacement assets.
provision is made for the tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been declared or there is a binding commitment.
on the basis of all available evidence deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable pro ts from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
