22 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 A year of good growth: operational review Strong oil & gas and improving power markets led to a year of strong growth across our three divisions.
In Engineering & Production Facilities, we have increased our presence around the world and broadened our range of projects and services.
In Well Support, we have extended our business in Chad and Russia and are increasing our manufacturing capabilities around the world, including in China, Mexico and Saudi Arabia.
In Gas Turbine Services we have increased our activity in markets anticipated to see the greatest future growth in the demand for power, including the Middle East, South America and Asia Paci c. 2006 Divisional Highlights Engineering & Well Support Gas Turbine Production Facilities Services Signi cant expenditure in new offshore and Increased drilling activity and growing The strong requirement for gas turbine onshore developments, and increasing demand for arti cial lift using electric maintenance, repair and overhaul in the oil expenditure on integrity and production submersible pumps led to higher demand & gas industry, combined with a recovery enhancement of existing producing assets for our Well Support services.
We have in the power market led to an increase in led to excellent revenue growth in the year.
successfully maintained our focus on revenue, with the start of some large Power The stronger engineering performance training, career development and exible Solutions contracts in the final quarter contributed to the increased EBITA margin.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 23 We offer life-ofeld support, from Engineering & green eld engineering design, construction management and commissioning, to Production Facilities brown eld engineering, through production enhancement, operations management, Trevor Noble, Group Director maintenance management and 61% abandonment services.
Les Thomas, Group Director increase in EBITA See page 24 for full Review Well Support offers services, products and Well Support solutions designed to maintain and enhance production rates from oil elds and gas Wendell Brooks, Group Director reservoirs, and to control pressure at the well.
26% See page 28 for full Review increase in EBITA We are a leading world-wide independent Gas Turbine Services provider of operations, maintenance and repair services for gas turbines, steam Mark Papworth, Group Director turbines, generators, and other high-speed rotating equipment, including pumps and compressors.
We also repair 16 % gas turbine accessories and components See page 31 for full Review and provide power plants on a turnkey increase in EBITA basis.
