A Brief History of Johnson Matthey Percival Norton Johnson FRS George Matthey FRS PERCIVAL NORTON JOHNSON FOUNDED HIS GOLD ASSAYING ST BUSINESS ON 1 JANUARY 1817.
He also married on the same day!
In 1822 he moved his business to number 79 Hatton Garden, the centre of Londons jewellery district.
Having been apprenticed to Johnson in 1838, George Matthey became a partner in the business in 1851 which was renamed Johnson & Matthey.
Johnson & Matthey had established a reputation for the accuracy of its assays and the honesty and integrity with which it conducted business and in 1852 the company was appointed as official assayers and refiners to the Bank of England.
Following Percival Norton Johnsons retirement in 1860 George Johnson Matthey became a limited company in 1891 and its Matthey was joined in partnership by John Scudamore Sellon, the ordinary shares were first listed on the London Stock Exchange nephew of Johnsons wife Lydia, however the Johnson name was in 1942. maintained and the business became Johnson Matthey & Co.
While Johnson Matthey now has its headquarters in Royston, George Matthey, John Scudamore Sellon and Edward Matthey, Hertfordshire, its City Office and Registered Office is at 40-42 Georges younger brother, ran the company throughout the Hatton Garden opposite the site where Percival Norton Johnson remaining four decades of the 19th century and indeed up to the established the business in 1822 and where Johnson Matthey time of the First World War.
Over this time the business grew as a continued to refine and manufacture precious metal products world leading refiner and manufacturer of precious metal products until the late 1950s.
Johnson Matthey carried out pioneering work in Johnson and Mattheys legacy lives on in todays company: a world the refining and manufacturing of platinum and the other platinum leader in platinum group metals which have exceptional catalytic group metals and played a key role in the development of their properties.
Our catalysts play a central role in reducing harmful industrial applications.
George Matthey was created a Chevalier in emissions and are at the heart of new technologies to support the Legion dHonneur by the French government for his work in the transition to a low carbon world.
the field of platinum fabrications.
