Operating and Financial Review An impairment charge of 6.0 million has been included in Operations the results for 2005 06 for the write down of process assets no longer required in the platinum group metal refining business Johnson Matthey has operations in over 30 countries and following the successful restructuring of that business.
It is organised into four global the impairment charge, profit before tax was 213.8 million divisions: Catalysts, Precious Metal Products, Pharmaceutical which was 28% up on the equivalent figure for 2004 05 which Materials and Ceramics.
included a charge of 36.7 million for restructuring costs.
Underlying earnings per share rose by 9% to 72.7 pence, Catalysts Division benefiting from the accretive effect of buying back shares.
Including impairment, restructuring and disposal costs total Description of the Business earnings per share rose by 33% to 70.8 pence.
Catalysts Division consists of three global businesses: The board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend Environmental Catalysts and Technologies ECT of 21.0 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 30.1 pence, ECT comprises Johnson Mattheys global autocatalyst, heavy duty an increase of 9%, which is in line with the growth in underlying diesel and stationary source emissions control businesses.
are a world leading manufacturer of catalysts for vehicle exhaust emission control and a leader in catalyst systems for the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from industrial processes.
Outlook Manufacturing takes place in the USA, UK, Belgium, Mexico, Argentina, South Africa, Japan, Malaysia, India and China.
R&D The outlook for the next few years continues to be very facilities are in the USA, UK, Sweden, Japan and Brazil.
We expect the group to achieve strong top line Process Catalysts and Technologies PCT growth from the introduction of new products and generate PCT manufactures base and precious metal process catalysts, fine good growth in earnings.
Manufacturing facilities New legislation on HDD vehicle emissions in Europe will are in the UK, USA, Germany, India and China.
Davy Process apply to all new vehicles in October 2006.
New legislation in Technology develops chemical process technologies and licenses the US starts in January 2007 and will impact our sales in the them to customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical industries.
final quarter of the financial year.
By the end of 2008 we expect It is headquartered in London and has an extensive R&D centre the market for catalysts for new HDD vehicles to reach in Stockton-on-Tees, UK.
Our Research Chemicals business is US$700 million higher than our previous estimate reflecting based in the USA and UK.
the use of more expensive substrates and filters.
Johnson Matthey is expecting to achieve a leading share of this market.
Fuel Cells In addition, demand for CSFs for light vehicles is strong and Johnson Matthey is the world leader in catalysts and catalysed sales are expected to grow steadily in 2006 07. components for fuel cells.
The markets for PCTs catalysts have also improved in the last year as a result of high energy prices and increased Performance in 2005 06 environmental concerns.
The acquisition of Davy Process Catalysts Divisions sales rose by 28% to 1,477 million, partly Technology has enhanced Johnson Mattheys technological as a result of higher prices for platinum, palladium and rhodium.
position in this market and medium term growth prospects Excluding the value of precious metals, sales rose by 17% to are very good.
This increase was driven by good volume growth In 2006 07 Precious Metal Products Division should continue and the impact of higher material costs, such as the cost of to benefit from the favourable conditions in the platinum group substrates for catalysed soot filters, which is a pass through for metal markets.
Pharmaceutical Materials growth will depend on Johnson Matthey.
the timing of customers new product launches.
Ceramics is The divisions operating profit increased by 10% before expected to trade at similar levels to 2005 06 and be strongly acquisition integration costs included in the results for 2004 05 cash generative.
The US dollar has weakened again in the current to 134.2 million, with most of the growth coming in the financial year which will adversely affect exchange translation second half of the year.
if it remains at current levels.
Overall, we expect growth in earnings to be stronger in the second half of 2006 07 than the Environmental Catalysts and Technologies first driven by increasing demand for diesel catalyst products.
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies was well ahead of We will continue to increase our investment in R&D to last year with good growth in Europe, particularly for diesel maintain Johnson Mattheys technology leadership positions.
catalysts, and increasing autocatalyst sales in Asia more than We believe that many of the existing and emerging markets for offsetting a further decline in North America.
catalysts will show significant growth over the next decade and In Johnson Mattheys financial year to 31st March 2006 Johnson Matthey is well placed to benefit from these new global light duty vehicle sales increased by 3.6% to 65.6 million.
Car production rose by 3.3% with a small overall reduction in inventories.
Most of the growth in production came in Asia, which was 11% up on last year.
Europe and North America were 2% ahead.
Demand for diesel vehicles continues to be strong in Europe where they represent just under half the total car market.
Johnson Matthey has a leading position in the light - Johnson Matthey 8 Figure 1 Figure 2 HDD On Road Regulation Development Light Duty Petrol-engined Vehicle NOx Emission Standards 0.20 0.75 Japan 2003 Current Standards 0.15 0.50 US 2002 3 4 EU III 0.10 0.25 Japan 2009 0.05 US 2010 Japan 2005 EU V EU IV US 2007 0 0 1992 1997 2002 2006 2010 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 5.5 6.0 NOx g kw-hr California US Federal Japan Europe China duty diesel catalyst market which has seen good growth due to standards for HDD vehicles came into force in Europe in strong sales of diesel oxidation catalysts DOCs to meet Euro October 2005 for new models.
As yet, less than 10% of the IV emissions regulations.
new vehicle fleet is fitted with catalysts.
The major growth in this market will occur from October 2006 when all new vehicles sold in Europe will need to meet the new standards.
Johnson Estimated Light Vehicle Sales and Production Matthey is supplying several of the OEMs with products to Year to 31st March 2006 2005 change meet the new legislation and expects to have a leading share millions millions % of the market when the legislation applies to all new vehicles.
North America Sales 19.7 19.5 1.0% In the United States similar legislation comes into force at the Production 15.9 15.6 1.9% beginning of January 2007 and Johnson Matthey is again well Europe Sales 18.3 18.0 1.7% placed to take a leading market share.
A major expansion Production 19.3 18.9 2.1% programme is underway at our facility near Philadelphia, USA Asia Sales 15.2 13.7 10.9% to install capacity to meet demand for catalysts for both heavy Production 23.0 20.7 11.1% duty diesel vehicles and diesel powered SUVs, which are also Global Sales 65.6 63.3 3.6% Production 66.3 64.2 3.3% affected by this legislation.
Following closely behind these first waves of on road Source: Global Insight heavy duty diesel emissions regulations are a series of tighter standards which will come into effect in Europe, Japan and We are also seeing increasing demand from many of the the United States over the next four years.
These are leading car companies in Europe for catalysed soot filters CSFs illustrated in figure 1 and require major reductions in the to remove particulates from diesel exhaust emissions.
Although emissions of both particulate matter PM and oxides of legislation requiring such emission control devices does not nitrogen NOx.
This presents significant challenges to the come into force in Europe until 2010 many manufacturers are manufacturers of HDD engines and vehicles and will require starting to fit these devices much earlier due to public the use of highly sophisticated catalyst systems.
Johnson awareness of the environmental and health benefits that they Matthey is working with many of the worlds leading HDD provide.
In 2005 06 we commissioned a new factory in Royston, engine and vehicle manufacturers on systems to meet these UK to manufacture CSFs and we are putting in new capacity at much tighter standards.
our South African facility which also supplies the European In addition to on road HDD emissions legislation, which market.
Demand for CSFs increased in the second half of the will undoubtedly continue to tighten beyond 2010, there is year and we expect to see further growth in 2006 07. also legislation in place in the European Union and the United During the year we announced plans to build a new States that will take effect from 2011 requiring off road or autocatalyst manufacturing facility in the Russian Federation.
This non road vehicles such as construction, mining and agricultural plant will produce catalysts to meet demand from both local equipment to meet the same tight emissions standards.
This is and global original equipment manufacturers OEMs following an additional new market that will be of a similar size to the the introduction of emissions legislation in Russia in the spring on road HDD market and will have similar technology of 2006. requirements.
Again Johnson Matthey is well positioned to The market for heavy duty diesel HDD catalysts for new benefit from this legislation.
vehicles is also beginning to grow.
New emission control Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - 9 PM g kw-hr NOx g mile Operating and Financial Review Emissions standards for light duty gasoline and diesel Process Catalysts and Technologies Process Catalysts and Technologies also achieved good growth vehicles also continue to tighten around the world.
Figure 2 on page 9 illustrates legislated limits for emissions of NOx in sales and profits in 2005 06.
The Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and Gas AMOG business was well ahead of 2004 05 with strong in the worlds major car markets.
Emission standards for hydrocarbons HC and carbon monoxide CO are also demand for catalysts and purification materials for industries where hydrogen or synthesis gas are key intermediates.
Sales of following this worldwide trend and, as outlined above, there is increasing focus on particulate emissions from diesels in Europe.
edible oil catalysts were also ahead of last year but catalyst sales to the polymer market declined.
This will undoubtedly spread to other parts of the world as the use of light duty diesel engines increases.
Continuously tightening On 1st February 2006 we purchased Davy Process Technology Limited DPT for a net cost of 24.6 million.
DPT emissions standards bring new technical challenges to our customers which require innovative, high performance catalysts develops chemical process technologies and licenses them to customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical industries.
This will drive the growth of our autocatalyst business well into the next decade.
is generated through the licensing of its proprietary technologies and from the sale of associated basic engineering packages, Our business in Asia is performing very well.
Over the next decade we expect that most of the growth in world car catalysts, specialist equipment and other services.
In the two months of Johnson Matthey ownership DPT made an operating production will take place in the Asian region.
In the financial year 2005 06 we have achieved strong volume growth in China profit of 0.8 million.
The acquisition of DPT will provide Johnson Matthey with and Japan and our operations in India and Malaysia also continued to perform well.
During the year we further expanded our additional opportunities to grow its sales of catalysts and technologies into emerging markets.
The high oil price, coupled autocatalyst manufacturing facility in Japan in order to serve growing demand for our products from Japanese car companies.
with the depletion of known reserves, makes the winning of more difficult oil deposits economic.
This, along with increasing We are also seeing good growth in sales to Japanese transplant operations in the United States, which is helping to offset some demand for cleaner fuels, is transforming the market for catalysts and purification materials used in oil, gas and of the impact on our North American business of the decline in the domestic manufacturers market share.
It has generated investment in the economic use of natural gas and coal, both as precursors for transport In early September we announced plans to build a new autocatalyst factory in South Korea, our fifth in the Asian region.
fuels and in manufacturing petrochemical intermediates.
For example industry experts forecast that the gas to liquids This new plant is being built in Gyeonggi province, 50 kilometres south west of Seoul, where we plan to manufacture catalysts process, which converts natural gas into sulphur free hydrocarbons, including diesel fuel, is viable at oil prices of for both diesel and petrol powered vehicles and also to carry out research and development activities to support the rapidly greater than $25 to $35 per barrel.
Coal to chemicals processes are estimated to be viable at oil prices of greater than $40 to growing Korean motor industry.
Our HDD business in Asia continues to make good $50 per barrel in countries like China and the USA where coal resources significantly exceed oil reserves.
We have significantly progress, gaining share of the OEM market to meet both current and upcoming Japanese legislation and achieving good increased our R&D expenditure on the development of catalysts for the production of clean synthetic liquid products sales into the large retrofit programme underway in Seoul.
- Johnson Matthey 10 from a wide range of hydrocarbon feedstocks which will be a Precious Metal Products Division substantial growth market for PCT in the medium term.
World Description of the Business attention to the subject of low carbon energy inevitably involves the use of hydrogen as a fuel and here Johnson Matthey is Precious Metal Products Division is organised into three groups: already developing a range of appropriate new technologies.
Platinum, Colour Technologies and Gold and Silver and The high price of oil also benefits Tracerco, PCTs oil incorporates Johnson Mattheys precious metals marketing, processing services business, which saw record demand for fabrication and refining activities as well as its business services and equipment from production platforms and manufacturing functional and decorative coatings for glass refineries in 2005 06. and ceramics.
The divisions Research Chemicals business achieved good Platinum growth, successfully integrating the operations of Lancaster Consists of our worldwide platinum marketing and fabrication Synthesis which was acquired in 2004 05.
Marketing is headquartered in Royston, UK with catalogue was issued during the year which should provide a support facilities in Philadelphia and Hong Kong.
We are the further boost to growth.
During 2005 06 the business has worlds leading distributor of platinum group metals pgms and pursued opportunities for expansion in the key Chinese and the sole marketing agent for Anglo Platinum, the worlds largest Indian markets.
A joint venture has been established in China producer of platinum.
Our platinum fabrication business makes that provides a full service to this rapidly growing market and a wide range of platinum group metal products primarily in the investigations are underway into expanding the business UK and USA.
Our Pgm Refining business recovers pgms from warehousing and distribution facilities in India.
spent catalysts and other secondary materials and refines Fuel Cells primary pgms from global mining operations.
It has refining The same trends that are increasing demand for new catalysts facilities in the UK and USA.
in PCT have also increased interest in fuel cells technologies Colour Technologies and 2005 06 witnessed significant developments in the fuel cell Headquartered in the Netherlands, our Colour Technologies market, particularly in Europe and Asia.
One consequence of business manufactures black obscuration enamels and silver these trends has been renewed interest in the use of phosphoric conductive materials for automotive glass.
It also makes colours, acid fuel cells PAFCs for stationary applications.
Johnson enamels and decorative precious metal products for other glass Matthey has well established technology for components in this applications such as bottles and architectural glass as well as area and is collaborating with fuel cell manufacturers on new for tableware and other ceramic applications.
Another recent development is the emergence of small prototype direct methanol fuel cells used Gold and Silver Comprises our worldwide gold and silver refining and bullion as chargers for mobile phones or power sources for laptop computers.
The future development of this new market is still manufacturing operations.
Johnson Matthey is a market leader in the refining of gold and silver.
The business serves the worlds uncertain but the Fuel Cells business is working with a number of major consumer electronics companies to supply catalysts mining industries and recycles secondary scrap material.
We are also a leading manufacturer of high purity small gold bars for and membrane electrode assemblies MEAs for their development programmes.
Gold and silver refining operations are located in the USA, Canada and Hong Kong.
There has also been increased activity in the development of fuel cell powered buses for low carbon transport demonstrations in major cities around the world.
In the long term the need for Performance in 2005 06 fuel cell cars remains as compelling as ever as the cost of pollution Precious Metal Products Divisions sales fell by 7% to control from conventional vehicles grows and concerns about 2,962 million.
The fall reflected the withdrawal from gold global warming and energy security become more pressing.
refining in the UK in 2004 05 and a reduction in trading activity In 2005 06 the annual cost of our Fuel Cells business on in the first half of the year compared with the first half of an IFRS basis fell by 0.5 million to 8.1 million.
Operating profit before impairment and restructuring accounting rules 1.6 million of the annual R&D cost was costs rose by 20% to 62.2 million.
Much of the growth in capitalised in 2005 06 1.5 million in 2004 05 which lowered operating profit was generated by the manufacturing businesses.
the reported cost compared with UK GAAP.
The business benefited from an expanded range of customers and initial sales Platinum of prototype products to the direct methanol fuel cells market.
Profits from the divisions marketing and trading operations During the year it has continued to develop its supply chain by were better than in 2004 05 particularly in the second half establishing development relationships and supply agreements of the year.
Higher average pgm prices and increased price for key materials for manufacturing MEAs and other fuel cell volatility, especially in the rhodium market, provided more components.
The price of platinum reached its peak for 2005 06 of $1,084 oz in March 2006, an all time high in dollar terms.
The rise in the platinum price gathered pace as the year progressed with speculative buying, particularly in Japan, adding to the strong supply and demand fundamentals that have been seen for a number of years.
The average price for the year was $942 oz, an 11% increase on 2004 05.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - 11 Operating and Financial Review Supply of Platinum 2001-2005 Demand for Platinum 2001-2005 Supply of Palladium 2001-2005 Demand for Palladium 2001-2005 Million oz Million oz Million oz Million oz South Africa Russia Others Autocatalyst Jewellery Industrial Investment South Africa Russia Others Autocatalyst Electronics Dental Other net net 7 7 9 8 8 7 6 6 7 6 5 5 6 5 4 4 5 4 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Total consumption of platinum increased once more in strong demand for medical device components.
Demand for 2005 06, a pattern unbroken since 1992.
Demand for platinum core industrial products, such as catalytic gauzes, high specification in autocatalysts increased by 9% with much of the growth wires and complex fabrications, grew strongly as our market generated in Europe where diesel vehicles, which predominantly share improved.
This increased activity has necessitated an use platinum catalysts, accounted for nearly 50% of light duty expansion of our manufacturing plant at West Chester, USA vehicle registrations.
However, usage in jewellery fell as the which will be completed in the first half of 2006 07.
Our rising price of platinum encouraged fide-stocking and recycling of medical parts business, based in California, had an excellent old jewellery.
Supplies of platinum increased, although at a lower year, led by our modern San Diego plant which enjoyed record rate than anticipated as South African producers had a number sales of precision machined components.
of unforeseen difficulties in reaching their expansion targets.
Pgm Refining was transferred from Catalysts into Precious Overall, supplies fell short of demand for the seventh consecutive Metal Products Division at the beginning of the financial year.
year, contributing to the trend of rising platinum prices.
In 2005 we announced a plan to restructure the business in The palladium price also reached a peak for 2005 06 in the UK and reduce the quantity of precious metals held in the March, touching $345 oz.
Supply and demand fundamentals refinery.
This was achieved by improved intake management became increasingly irrelevant as hedge funds and institutional which refocused the business on refining pgm materials whilst investors extended already substantial long positions in the exiting the market for materials which contain predominantly market.
The average price for the year was $228 oz, a modest gold and silver.
As a result of the successful completion of this increase of 4% on 2004 05.
Physical demand for palladium plan over 20 million of net cash has been generated from increased in 2005 06, a third successive year of rising metal reduction.
Some parts of the process have been changed consumption after a slump in 2002 03.
Autocatalyst demand and 6.0 million of fixed assets, which will no longer be used, was broadly flat whereas demand from the burgeoning market were written off in 2005 06. for palladium jewellery in China grew by more than 50%.
Colour Technologies Palladium supplies were slightly lower than in 2004 05 due to Colour Technologies, which was transferred into the division a reduction in Russian stock sales.
Although the physical market following the restructuring of the former Colours & Coatings was once again in surplus, this was overshadowed by activity in Division, achieved good growth in profits benefiting from cost the investment market.
reductions undertaken last year and good sales of automotive The price of rhodium rose sharply in 2005 06, reaching a glass enamels particularly in the North American and Asian peak of $4,350 oz in March.
The average price of $2,544 oz was markets.
Also, its new range of unleaded products for more than double the average for 2004 05.
Strong demand from architectural and appliance glass applications, which was the automotive and glass industries coupled with speculative launched in 2004 05, received full market acceptance and interest left little metal to be offered in the spot market.
This contributed strongly to growth in 2005 06.
The Tableware additional pressure on a market which was already tight and business improved, benefiting from earlier cost reductions, the illiquid inevitably caused prices to rise dramatically.
last of which was its exit from the unprofitable decal business.
The divisions pgm fabrication businesses also achieved Following these changes, Tableware and Glass have been fully good growth with increasing sales to the industrial sector and integrated into a single Colour Technologies organisation.
- Johnson Matthey 12 Gold and Silver Despite carboplatin going off patent the outlook for The divisions gold and silver businesses also had a good year platinum anticancer drugs remains encouraging.
The market benefiting from the closure, in 2004 05, of its UK bullion continues to grow and Johnson Matthey is the leading supplier refinery which had been loss making and the transfer of some of platinum containing APIs to the US market.
Johnson Matthey of its business to our North American refineries.
Despite the originally discovered Satraplatin, a potential new drug to treat higher gold price, volumes of secondary gold scrap refined by prostate cancer which is currently in Phase III clinical trials, and our Hong Kong refinery were down on the prior year and the company will receive royalty and manufacturing income if profit from this activity fell.
However, sales of Johnson Matthey this product is successfully launched.
group products into the South East Asian market, which are Macfarlan Smith coordinated through Hong Kong, continued to grow.
Macfarlan Smith, which is based in Edinburgh, UK, performed well in the year with sales and profits ahead of 2004 05.
Sales Pharmaceutical Materials Division were up in most product areas with good growth in both bulk opiates and low volume, high potency products, mainly analgesics, Description of the Business where new capacity was installed in 2004 05.
The major Pharmaceutical Materials Division is a global, integrated supplier expansion programme to increase capacity to manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients APIs, which provides specialist opiates oxycodone, hydromorphone and services to pharmaceutical companies through every phase buprenorphine, demand for which is growing rapidly, was of the development and commercial manufacture of a completed on time and has now been commissioned.
world market for opiate drugs, which are primarily used to The divisions Macfarlan Smith UK and West Deptford treat pain, continues to grow.
Use of these products increases USA businesses provide a full range of commercial scale as the worlds population ages and people are generally less manufacturing services for APIs to both generic and branded tolerant of pain.
Growth is also driven by the introduction of pharmaceutical companies.
Both businesses specialise in the new applications and new dosage forms which enable broader, manufacture of low to medium volume, high value products, more controlled use of these medications.
Pharma Services Pharma Services USA provides contract research and Pharma Services performance in 2005 06 was disappointing.
development and manufacturing services to pharmaceutical Revenue declined in the first half of the year as several major companies from pre-clinical through to commercial launch.
projects were wound up by customers earlier than projected.
The Pharmaceutical Materials Ireland business specialises Performance in the second half improved, benefiting from new in the manufacture of prostaglandin APIs, which are very low business and a reduced cost base.
volume, high value, chemically complex molecules.
In addition to performing contract research and development for third parties, Pharma Services has continued Performance in 2005 06 to use its broad capabilities to support product development Pharmaceutical Materials Divisions sales rose by 2% to for other businesses in the division.
In 2005 06, Pharma Services 134 million with a recovery in the second half of the year.
successfully developed manufacturing processes for new generic Operating profit fell by 15% to 33.8 million as a result of products which will be marketed by the West Deptford and reduced income from carboplatin, which went off patent in Ireland businesses.
October 2004, and lower revenues in the divisions contract Ireland research business.
The fall in profits all occurred in the United The performance of Pharmaceutical Materials Ireland improved States, although trading improved in the second half.
The in 2005 06 and the business continued to expand its customer divisions European businesses performed well in the year.
The development of new generic products West Deptford containing our prostaglandin APIs continues to make good Our active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturing business progress and several have been submitted for regulatory in the US, which is based in West Deptford, NJ, saw its profits approval.
decline in 2005 06 following the expiry of the carboplatin patent.
Much of the future growth in the US business is Ceramics Division expected to come from the launch of new generic products by our customers.
These product launches can be subject to delays Description of the Business in the US courts, which occurred in 2005 06 when we had Headquartered in Spain, our Ceramics Division is a leading hoped to benefit from the launch of a significant new generic global supplier of raw materials and intermediate products to controlled drug.
We still hope to benefit from the launch of the tile and sanitaryware industries.
The business has a presence that product in 2006 07 but timing remains uncertain.
There in all the major geographical regions with core manufacturing are several other attractive generic products in the late stages facilities in Spain, Italy, UK, Brazil, USA, Malaysia, India and China.
of development which are expected to gain commercial approval over the next few years.
Commercialisation of opiate drugs continues to progress with a number of customers working to obtain regulatory approvals to market products containing APIs manufactured at West Deptford.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - 13 Operating and Financial Review Above: Precision components used in medical devices.
Left: Active pharmaceutical ingredient API manufacture.
Right: Colours for decorating ceramic tiles.
- Johnson Matthey 14 Performance in 2005 06 JMTC also works in close collaboration with an extensive network of technology centres and development groups within Ceramics is shown as a stand alone division this year following Johnson Mattheys global businesses and participates in the restructuring of our Colours & Coatings Division.
That collaborative research and development programmes restructuring included the sale of our Pigments & Dispersions worldwide.
Examples of two long term projects currently business, transfer of the Colour Technologies business to underway at JMTC are described below followed by a review Precious Metal Products Division and closure or consolidation of R&D activities within the operating divisions.
of a number of smaller manufacturing units.
The net impact has been to significantly reduce the cost Core Science Projects Advanced Modelling base which has improved operating profit and margins.
Ceramics Division also successfully grew its sales in 2005 06 by Johnson Matthey invests in the development and application 10% to 182 million.
Operating profit increased by 13% to of leading edge multi-scale modelling skills to study catalyst 21.3 million.
performance from atomic to plant scale.
Modelling is a valuable The division is a global supplier of decorative materials tool for the prediction of catalyst performance and to the ceramic industries particularly tile manufacturing.
It is understanding of limitations that helps us to design experiments realising the benefits of the investments made in recent years to and concepts leading to the next generation of catalysts.
position it as one of the lowest cost global producers.
Dedicated Optimising Chemical Processes sales and technical teams work closely with the tile producers In many areas of process catalysis, we have been using chemical and this, combined with world class research and development engineering modelling techniques to predict reactor facilities at strategic locations around the world, have earned performance.
These predictions can provide a reasonably the Ceramics business an excellent reputation for product accurate overview of reactor behaviour and allow optimisation quality and customer support.
More advanced modelling techniques are now Sales were strong in China, which has a large and growing providing us with a much more detailed view of what happens tile market and where the division has a factory to supply local inside the reactor, allowing us to study catalysts and reactors consumption.
Growth in Europe was less strong, with our Italian from scales of nanometres to metres.
For example we are using and Spanish customers, who export around 50% of their state of the art computational fluid dynamics to explore the production outside the euro zone, continuing to suffer relationships between flow behaviour, heat transfer and catalyst downward pressure on volumes and prices, due to the strength performance during steam reforming of hydrocarbons, while of the euro.
However, sales into Eastern Europe, especially molecular modelling codes allow us to gain insight into the Poland and Russia, showed good growth as the regions nanoscale phenomena that are taking place at the active sites manufacturing base continued to expand.
Research & Development Aftertreatment Design Experiments alone do not always provide a route to solving Research and development is the lifeblood of Johnson Mattheys emission problems.
At JMTC we often start with thermodynamic high technology businesses.
We maintain a high level of R&D calculations which are a mathematical way of posing the expenditure to ensure the continuous flow of new products question is this reaction possible?
If the answer is yes then we and technologies to provide our customers with cost effective can start looking for the right catalyst.
solutions to legislated and technical requirements.
In 2005 06 Part of the search involves modelling the possible Johnson Matthey spent 62.7 million gross on research and interactions of exhaust gas molecules with the surfaces of development.
This approach, called atomistic modelling, allows us to identify the most likely active site and Johnson Matthey Technology Centre reaction pathway on each surface based on the energy changes The Johnson Matthey Technology Centre JMTC, located at that can take place.
Our aim is to find the surface that provides Sonning Common, UK is the groups main centre for longer the fastest pathway to the thermodynamically favoured products.
It employs over 140 scientists, specialists in the At this point we enter a predominantly experimental phase.
fields of catalysis, precious metals, materials science and many The catalytically active surface has to be transformed from an other disciplines in which Johnson Matthey operates.
JMTC has image on a computer screen into a highly durable material that state of the art facilities for preparing and testing catalysts and can survive the hostile and variable conditions that prevail in other products as well as a world class analytical science group, an exhaust pipe.
It can take many cycles of development and equipped with the latest tools to characterise and understand laboratory testing before a real catalyst emerges.
the materials with which Johnson Matthey works.
In the final phase which determines whether the catalyst is In addition to projects directly sponsored by the operating suitable for vehicle trials, we predict how it will perform when divisions to meet their long term objectives, JMTC also runs a integrated into a catalytic converter.
This process of reactor set of core science projects to extend the groups knowledge of modelling takes into account several long range effects which the science at the heart of many of its businesses, particularly in cannot be considered in atomistic modelling.
These include the the fields of catalyst engineering, modelling, preparation and rates at which the reactants diffuse from the fast flowing characterisation.
This knowledge can then be applied to accelerate exhaust gas to the catalyst surface and the transfer of heat and improve product development across the group.
of how advanced modelling techniques are used to underpin the groups catalyst development programmes are described below.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - 15 Operating and Financial Review Membrane Electrode Assemblies We are also a participant in the EU Framework 6 Membrane Electrode Assemblies MEAs form the heart of a fuel Hydrosol II project which aims to generate hydrogen directly cell system as they contain the electrochemically active catalyst from water using concentrated solar energy at a cost that is layers that convert fuel and oxygen to electricity and water.
Each competitive with the US Department of Energys goals.
The layer of an MEA has a different set of functions and must excel at project utilises a number of Johnson Mattheys core skills that each of these for maximum performance and durability.
All layers are applicable to the development of hydrogen generation except the central proton conducting membrane are porous and technology.
must allow the simultaneous ingress of reactants and egress of Direct Methanol Fuel Cells products.
Even subtle changes in the structural arrangement of JMTC carries out long term fundamental research on fuel cells the layers can affect performance and for this reason a and a key area of research is the development of new catalysts structurally realistic approach to modelling the layers is used.
and MEAs for direct methanol fuel cells DMFCs.
DMFCs are Advanced imaging techniques capture the micro and nanoscopic already emerging as a solution for standby and off-grid power structure of real MEA layers which can then be simulated and applications and we are working closely with customers to probed within computer models to quantify the properties of ensure that their performance targets are met.
DMFCs are also that layer.
Within the model new structures can be designed to being developed as a replacement for lithium-ion batteries for achieve the best balance of properties and then used to direct portable electronic devices such as mobile phones and laptops, experimental work to realise these structures in practice.
and prototype demonstrations are expected to be trialled by the major electronic companies within the next 12 months.
Long Term Research Projects The demanding targets of this application include compactness, simplicity and high reliability and will require continued Low Carbon Technologies improvements in catalyst and membrane materials and new The newly formed Low Carbon Technologies group at JMTC is approaches to MEA design and construction.
addressing the opportunities and challenges that will arise from the increased demand for clean energy supply and use.
The group acts as a focus for activities across Johnson Matthey and Catalysts Division has interests in carbon capture and storage, distributed Environmental Catalysts and Technologies continues to invest in hydrogen generation, biofuels, solar thermal technologies and scientists and state of the art equipment for the development energy storage.
and testing of catalysts to meet our customers needs for Johnson Matthey is an active participant in collaborative products which meet ever tightening emissions legislation research programmes worldwide allowing us to evaluate the around the world.
Through this investment, Johnson Matthey practical applications and market potential of these new has become a leader in diesel emission control technologies for technologies.
These include next generation hydrogen storage both heavy and light duty diesel applications including catalysed where we are working with a range of leading academic and soot filter technology for removal of soot from diesel exhausts.
industrial partners to apply our catalyst, materials and In addition, Johnson Matthey continues to invest in the engineering expertise to translate fundamental advances into development of improved products for the treatment of exhaust real life hydrogen storage solutions.
- Johnson Matthey 16 Following the significant expansion of our R&D facility Significant progress has already been made by the Noble at Kitsuregawa, Japan in 2004 05, this year we have expanded Metals business on developing new catalysts for the ammonia the sites autocatalyst manufacturing facility.
This combined oxidation industry and more work is planned for 2006 07. expansion in R&D and manufacturing capability has generated This is targeted to address customers desire for catalysts new business during the year and allowed us to meet the which require less pgm and which minimise the production growth in demand for our products from Japanese car of nitrous oxide, one of five greenhouse gases listed under manufacturers.
Johnson Matthey continues to expand its ECT R&D facilities to cater for the demands of planned new emissions Pharmaceutical Materials Division regulations around the world and the business opportunities Pharmaceutical Materials Divisions research and development this represents.
Investments in 2006 07 will see expansion of is focused on commercial products to be manufactured and the R&D facilities at our Royston, UK and Gothenberg, Sweden marketed by the divisions four business units.
Technology operations to further support ECTs research efforts in the field required for the manufacture of commercial scale products of diesel emission control technologies.
includes primarily the development of chemical manufacturing Process Catalysts and Technologies recently acquired Davy processes and methods for the analysis of these products.
This Process Technology, the chemical process development and technology is essential to achieve competitive market positions licensing company previously owned by Yukos International.
The and to obtain regulatory approval for products.
fit of this business with our broad palette of catalyst manufacturing Contract drug development services offered by Johnson and development tools represents a very potent mix through Matthey Pharma Services include medicinal chemistry, process which we aim not only to develop improvements to existing development and initial scale-up of potential new drugs.
Pharma chemical processes but also achieve significant world scale step Services also offers substantial niche expertise in catalysis and changes in technology.
Our key areas of focus for research the handling of potent APIs.
Each of Pharmaceutical Materials remain in the hydrocarbon to products and fuels areas and we Divisions businesses has developed substantial chemical are engaged in a number of specific projects aimed both at know-how in its respective market niches and they collaborate process improvement and enhancing catalyst performance.
closely on new technical challenges.
Combined with Johnson These include programmes for improving the design and Mattheys core expertise in catalysis, chiral catalysis and efficiency of our gas heated reforming technology used in organometallic chemistry, the division offers the pharmaceutical syngas based processes such as gas to liquids and methanol marketplace a unique range of R&D capabilities.
manufacture and other downstream catalyst applications.
We also continue to invest in R&D projects in the fine chemicals Ceramics Division and pharmaceuticals areas, focused both on new product development and process efficiency improvements.
The Ceramics Division is focused on research and development During the year, the Fuel Cells business R&D has focused programmes to support its global business and has R&D on hydrogen fuelled fuel cells while fundamental research on facilities at its major operations around the world.
The Ceramics methanol fuelled systems has continued at JMTC.
The business Technology Centre in Spezzano, Italy houses Johnson Mattheys continues to make substantial investments in research at JMTC innovative tile production line which incorporates industry to provide the technology pipeline the business needs.
The leading process and application technology for tile manufacturing.
value of this long term commitment has been realised again this Given that more emphasis is now being placed in Western year and we were able to respond to market opportunities for Europe upon high added value products rather than low membrane electrode assemblies for direct methanol fuel cells.
margin high volume products, Italy will focus its research Previous research in this area gave us the understanding and and development activities to help the divisions customers the technology options to rapidly release products and these meet the changing needs of the European market through have been very well received by the market.
Much of our product differentiation.
Research also continues into the use research work is conducted with partners and with customers of more energy efficient products and equipment within the and this has led to new developments in membranes for fuel ceramics industry.
cells which have shown outstanding improvements in durability.
Precious Metal Products Division Precious Metal Products Divisions global research effort is largely directed towards novel or improved products for its pgm fabrication Noble Metals and Colour Technologies businesses.
Work continues at JMTC to produce a new range of high performance silver powders for conductive tracks on automotive glasses, with other work for the Colour Technologies business aimed at developing more environmentally friendly applications and stains with superior performance.
