118 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 NoTES To ThE CoNSoLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 33. cOmmitmeNts aNd cONtiNgeNcies continued i oThER CoMMITMENTS The table below sets out the Groups expenditure commitments for property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 2006 and 2005: $ million 2006 2005 Property, plant and equipment 123.4 41.3 The Group has capital expenditure commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment as shown in the above table as well as commitments under its subsoil agreements.
Committed expenditure under these subsoil agreements relates to investments in community-related projects, and includes improvements to social sphere assets, infrastructure and public utilities.
j GuARANTEE oF EMPLoyEE LoANS Kazakhmys LLCs employees are permitted to enter into loan arrangements with banks on normal commercial terms under which Kazakhmys LLC has guaranteed to deduct repayments from employees remuneration in accordance with agreed schedules of repayment.
The total value of this guarantee amounted to $1.2 million as at 31 December 2006 2005: $6.4 million.
k oPERATING LEASE CoMMITMENTS At 31 December 2006, the Group and Company had the following total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases which expire: $ million 2006 2005 After more than five years 16.9 34. related party disclOsures a TRANSACTIoNS wITh RELATEd PARTIES Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
The Directors are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group: information of which is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 69 and forms part of these consolidated financial statements.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial period: Amounts Amounts Sales to Purchases owed by owed to related from related related related $ million parties parties parties parties Apro Limited 2006 2005 20.6 hozu Corporation LLC 2006 0.1 0.1 2005 0.2 0.2 1 Companies under trust management 2006 9.0 6.9 9.7 1.0 2005 15.7 7.6 12.3 1.6 2 other companies 2006 13.7 3.1 4.7 1.1 2005 7.1 7.2 1.8 2.0 1 Amounts owed by related parties are presented net of a provision of $22.7 million 2005: $13.9 million.
2 Other companies relate to companies under indirect control of the Group.
Transactions between the Group and these companies are on an arms length basis.
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S K A Z AK HM YS PLC 119 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 34. related party disclOsures continued a TRANSACTIoNS wITh RELATEd PARTIES continued i Apro Limited In 2002, the Group entered into an exclusive purchasing agreement with Samsung Corporation a major shareholder of Kazakhmys LLC prior to 31 December 2003 and Harper Finance Limited a company controlled by Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk, Directors of the Company collectively referred to as the Consortium, providing it with the right to buy all of Kazakhmys LLCs products.
The Consortium appointed Apro a company controlled by Yong Keu Cha, a Director of the Company to sell Kazakhmys LLCs exported products.
Under this arrangement Apro purchased Kazakhmys LLCs products as principal and sold them on to end customers.
Under the purchasing agreement, Apro purchased products from the Group at a discount to the prevailing LME price, and below the price at which Apro sold the products to end customers.
The discount reflected the fact that the significant commercial and credit risks were borne by Apro and the Consortium, rather than by Kazakhmys LLC.
Out of the difference between the purchase and sales prices, Apro retained a fee based on a percentage of sales revenue.
The balance was paid to the Consortium.
The exclusive purchasing agreement ceased in December 2004 and the Company acquired certain assets from Apro on 31 December 2004. ii HOZU Corporation LLC HOZU Corporation LLC is a company in which Vladimir Ni, a Director of the Company, is a director.
An interest free loan between the Company and HOZU Corporation LLC was substantially repaid in December 2005 with the remaining balance of $0.2 million being settled in January 2006.
The loan was secured on property owned by HOZU Corporation LLC.
Purchases of $0.1 million were made from HOZU Corporation LLC during 2006 on an arms length basis relating to the rental of property.
iii Companies under trust management agreements The Group operates a number of companies under trust management agreements with local and state authorities.
The activities include heating distribution systems, road maintenance and aviation services.
The purpose of these agreements is to provide public and social services without any material financial benefit for the Group.
Transactions between the Group and these companies are conducted on an arms length basis.
iv Transaction with Kinton Trade Limited On 26 September 2005, the Company issued 5,314,425 ordinary shares of 20 pence each in consideration for the transfer to it of 127,546,200 units in Kazakhmys LLC from Kinton Trade Limited see note 25.
Oleg Novachuk, a Director of the Company, has a 50% interest in Kinton Trade Limited.
b TERMS ANd CoNdITIoNS oF TRANSACTIoNS wITh RELATEd PARTIES Prices for related party transactions are determined by the parties on an ongoing basis depending on the nature of the transaction.
c oPTIoN AGREEMENT wITh ExECuTIvE ChAIRMAN On 14 March 2006, the Company announced that an entity wholly owned by the Companys Executive Chairman, Vladimir Kim, had agreed to acquire a 25% stake in ENRC Kazakhstan Holding B. V. EKH, the holding company for certain assets of the Eurasia Natural Resources groups metals and mining business.
EKH primarily operates in Kazakhstan producing, in particular, chrome, iron ore and alumina.
The Company has been given the benefit of a call option in respect of Vladimir Kims shareholding in EKH.
The terms of the call option allow the Company, at its absolute discretion, from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2007, to call for Vladimir Kims interest in EKH to be transferred to the Company for a consideration representing 100% of the initial investment of $751 million plus a 10% margin reflecting the risk of the initial investment and the actual financing and transaction costs incurred by Vladimir Kim.
This is provided that, as required by the Listing Rules, this consideration and the terms of the option are determined by an independent adviser to be fair and reasonable so far as the remaining shareholders of the Company are concerned.
Vladimir Kim is not permitted to dispose of his interest in EKH before 1 January 2008 without the consent of the Company.
Should the Company exercise the call option, then it will comply with all class tests and related party rules relevant to the Company.
Any such decision would be taken by an independent committee of the Board.
The accounting treatment of the option is governed by International Accounting Standard 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IAS 39 contains special accounting requirements for those equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and derivatives that are linked to, and must be settled by delivery of, such unquoted equity instruments.
If the fair value of such equity instruments cannot be reliably measured, they must be measured at cost, less impairment.
To be able to reliably measure the option, the variability in the range of fair value estimates should not be significant, and the probabilities of the various estimates within the range should be capable of being reasonably assessed.
There currently remain significant differences in the fair value estimates being obtained for EKH from external advisers and those estimated by other parties, and the probability of each value cannot be reasonably assessed.
The Directors have therefore considered the requirements of IAS 39 in this regard and are of the view that the fair value of the option cannot be reliably measured on the basis that, to date, insufficient information on EKHs financial performance, position and cash flows has been made available to the Company in order to arrive at a reliable valuation for the option.
Consequently the option is valued at cost, which is nil, due to the fact that no payment was made by the Company to enter into the option arrangement with Vladimir Kim.
