F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S K A Z AK HM YS PLC 83 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 2.
Basis Of preparatiON continued g CoMPARATIvE FIGuRES Where a change in the presentational format of the consolidated financial statements has been made during the year, comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
h ChANGES IN ACCouNTING PoLICIES There have been no changes in accounting policies.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
The Group adopted new and amended IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations during the year.
Adoption of these revised standards and interpretations did not have any significant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
3. summary Of sigNificaNt accOuNtiNg pOlicies The following significant accounting policies have been applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied.
a FoREIGN CuRRENCy TRANSLATIoN The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions translated at the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or the translation of monetary assets and liabilities at period end exchange rates, are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
The functional currency of the Company is US dollars $ as the majority of its operating activities are conducted in US dollars.
The functional currency of Kazakhmys LLC is the Kazakhstan tenge KZT and of MKM is the euro.
On consolidation, income statements of subsidiaries are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange.
Balance sheet items are translated into US dollars at period end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on the retranslation are taken to a separate component of equity.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings financing those net investments are also dealt with in equity.
All other exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
31 december Average 31 December Average 2006 2006 2005 2005 Kazakhstan tenge 127.00 126.09 133.77 132.88 Euro 0.76 0.80 0.84 0.80 UK pounds sterling 0.51 0.54 0.58 0.55 b INTANGIbLE ASSETS i Goodwill On the acquisition of a subsidiary, or of an interest in a joint venture, associate, or joint arrangement, the purchase consideration is allocated to the assets and liabilities on the basis of their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Those mineral reserves and resources that are able to be reliably valued are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves, resources and mineral rights for which, in the Directors opinion, values cannot be reliably determined, are not recognised.
When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable net assets the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised, rather it is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the related business combination for the purpose of the impairment testing.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
ii Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, including mineral licences, which are acquired by the Group and which have finite useful lives, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition, subject to the constraint that, unless the asset has a readily ascertainable market value, the fair value is limited to an amount that does not create or increase any negative goodwill arising on the acquisition.
iii Amortisation Intangible assets, other than goodwill, primarily comprise mineral licence acquisition costs, which are amortised on a unit of production basis.
Amortisation for other intangible assets, which have expected useful lives of three to ten years, is computed under the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
84 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 NoTES To ThE CoNSoLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 3. summary Of sigNificaNt accOuNtiNg pOlicies continued c RESEARCh ANd dEvELoPMENT Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
d TANGIbLE ASSETS i Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
The cost or deemed cost of property, plant and equipment hereafter referred to as cost at 1 January 2002, the date of Kazakhmys LLCs transition to IFRS, was determined by reference to its depreciated replacement cost at that date in accordance with IFRS 1.
The cost of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the individual asset or on a unit of production basis depending on the type of asset.
Changes in estimates, which affect unit of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences on the date the assets are used within the business.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The expected useful lives are as follows: Buildings 1525 years Plant and equipment 425 years Other 315 years ii Mineral properties and mine development costs Costs of acquiring mineral properties are capitalised within property, plant and equipment in the year in which they are incurred.
Costs associated with a start-up period for significant developments are capitalised during the commissioning period development expenditure where the asset is incapable of operating at normal levels without a commissioning period.
Mine development costs are, upon commencement of production, depreciated using a unit of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves to which they relate.
iii Construction in progress Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
The cost of a tangible fixed asset comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
Construction in progress is not depreciated.
iv Repairs and maintenance Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately, is capitalised with the carrying amount of the component being written off.
Repairs and maintenance expenditure is capitalised if future economic benefits will arise from the expenditure.
All other expenditure, including repairs and maintenance expenditure, is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
v Government grants Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is credited to the cost of the asset and is released to the income statement over the expected useful life in a consistent manner with the depreciation method for the relevant asset.
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S K A Z AK HM YS PLC 85 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 3. summary Of sigNificaNt accOuNtiNg pOlicies continued vi Leasing and hire purchase commitments Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased items, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease.
Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised lease assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
vii Mine stripping costs Mine stripping costs incurred in order to access the mineral-bearing ore deposits are deferred prior to the commencement of production.
Such costs are amortised over the remaining life of the mine on a unit of production basis.
The cost of removal of the waste material during a mines production phase is deferred, where appropriate.
The deferral of these costs, and subsequent charges in the income statement, are determined in order to evenly match the total estimated stripping costs against the quantities of ore mined in each period.
Where the extraction of the ore is expected to be evenly distributed, or where the impact of deferral is not material, the costs of removal are expensed as incurred.
e ExPLoRATIoN ANd EvALuATIoN ExPENdITuRE Exploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of interest, other than that acquired through a purchase transaction, is carried forward as an asset provided that one of the following conditions is met: Such costs are expected to be recouped through successful exploration and development of the area of interest or, alternatively, by its sale.
Exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have not yet reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence or otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, and active and significant operations in relation to the area are continuing.
Exploration expenditure which fails to meet at least one of the conditions outlined above is written off.
Administrative and general expenses relating to exploration and evaluation activities are expensed as incurred.
A significant portion of exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to mineral licences, which are classified and accounted for as intangible assets.
Identifiable exploration and evaluation assets acquired in a purchase transaction are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition from another mining company.
Exploration assets are reassessed on a regular basis and these costs are carried forward provided that at least one of the conditions outlined above is met.
Exploration and evaluation assets attributable to producing interests are amortised on a unit of production basis.
f IMPAIRMENT The carrying amounts of non-current assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether the carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such review is undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset or cash-generating unit at the lower amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
i Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independent of those from other assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups cash-generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
ii Reversals of impairment An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
86 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 NoTES To ThE CoNSoLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 3. summary Of sigNificaNt accOuNtiNg pOlicies continued g INvENToRIES Raw materials and consumables are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first-in first-out FIFO basis.
Cost includes all costs incurred in the normal course of business in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Cost for raw materials and consumables is the purchase price and for work in progress and finished goods is the cost of production, including the appropriate proportion of depreciation and overheads.
The cost of work in progress and finished goods is based on the weighted average cost method.
In the case of work in progress and finished goods, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
h TRAdE ANd oThER RECEIvAbLES Trade receivables are carried at original invoice price which is the fair value of the consideration receivable less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the original carrying amount and the recoverable amount, being the present value of expected cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest for similar borrowers.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
i CASh ANd CASh EquIvALENTS Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits held on call or with maturities less than three months at inception, and highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, and bank overdrafts.
j boRRowINGS Borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
k EMPLoyEE bENEFITS i Long-term employee benefits Kazakhmys LLC provides long-term employee benefits to employees before, on and after retirement, in accordance with a labour union agreement.
Such benefits are valued consistent with an unfunded defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
The agreement provides for one-time retirement grants, financial aid, dental care, medical benefits, sanatorium visits, annual financial support to pensioners, free tickets for city buses, privilege tickets for shuttle buses and funeral aid.
The agreement in Germany provides for part-time work for older employees.
There are no employee benefits provided in the United Kingdom.
The future benefit that employees have earned is discounted to determine the present value.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on government bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups benefit obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses falling outside a corridor of the greater of 10% of the benefit obligation or 10% of the assets, amortised over the expected average future working lifetime of employees in the arrangements.
The expense in relation to these long-term employee benefits is charged to the income statement so as to match the cost of providing these benefits to the period of service of the employees.
ii Trust activities Assets held in trust or in a fiduciary capacity are not treated as assets of the Group and, accordingly, are not included in the consolidated financial statements.
Transactions entered into with these trust activities are expensed in the consolidated financial statements.
iii Social programmes The Group is obliged to contribute towards social programmes for the benefit of the local community at large.
The Groups contributions towards these programmes are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
l PRovISIoNS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S K A Z AK HM YS PLC 87 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 3. summary Of sigNificaNt accOuNtiNg pOlicies continued i Site restoration costs Site restoration provisions are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration, and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted where material and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future benefit and depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
ii Restructuring A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or been announced publicly.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
iii Other Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be an outflow of resources, for which the amount can be reliably estimated.
m REvENuE Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue associated with the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has passed to the customer.
Almost all Kazakh Mining sales agreements provide for provisional pricing of sales in the month of sale with final pricing settlement based on the average LME copper price for the month following the sale.
Sales which remain open to final pricing at year end are valued at provisional prices.
Sales are subsequently adjusted for the final pricing settlement when closed out in the following year.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
Mining royalties are included within cost of sales.
n FINANCE INCoME Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and foreign exchange gains.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, calculated in accordance with the effective interest rate method.
o FINANCE CoSTS Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions and foreign exchange losses.
All interest and other costs incurred in connection with borrowings are expensed as incurred as part of finance costs.
p INCoME TAx Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Excess profits tax is treated as income tax and forms part of the income tax expense.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: Those arising on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
Investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred excess profits tax is calculated with respect to temporary differences in respect of assets allocated to contracts for subsoil use at the expected rate of excess profits tax to be paid under the contract.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
