116 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 NoTES To ThE CoNSoLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 33. cOmmitmeNts aNd cONtiNgeNcies a LEGAL CLAIMS In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to legal actions and complaints.
The Directors believe that the ultimate liability, if any, arising from such actions or complaints will not have a materially adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Group.
As of 31 December 2006 and 2005 the Group was not involved in any significant legal proceedings, including arbitration.
b KAzAKhSTAN TAxATIoN CoNTINGENCIES i Inherent uncertainties in interpreting tax legislation The Group is subject to uncertainties relating to the determination of its tax liabilities.
The tax system and tax legislation in Kazakhstan have been in force for only a relatively short time and are subject to frequent changes and varying interpretations.
Managements interpretations of such legislation in applying it to business transactions of the Group may be challenged by the relevant tax authorities and, as a result, the Group may be assessed on additional tax payments including fines, penalties and interest charges, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position and results of operations.
Such uncertainties may in particular relate to the valuation of the taxable base for excess profits tax purposes and the application of transfer pricing policies.
In relation to excess profits tax, the tax law gives no explicit guidance on how the tax base should be determined for individual subsurface use contracts relevant to certain members of the Group.
Prior to 2002 it was not clear from the contracts themselves as to how profitability should be allocated to the Groups mining operations.
In the event of a successful challenge by the tax authorities, the Group may be liable for additional payments of excess profits tax.
Depending on the interpretation adopted and the amounts, if any, that are involved, this could have a significant adverse impact on the Groups financial position and on its profit for a reporting period.
Under such circumstances, there would also be a consequential significant adverse impact on all subsequent periods due to the cumulative nature of the excess profits tax calculations.
ii Status of tax audits During 2006, Kazakhmys LLC was subject to a tax audit for the periods 2003 to 2005 and received a tax assessment for approximately $11.0 million including penalties and interest.
Kazakhmys LLC has appealed against certain elements of the assessment and is currently engaged in discussions with the tax authorities.
The Group has recorded in its financial statements all potential tax liabilities relating to this audit.
Kazakhmys LLC is also undergoing a transfer pricing audit for the periods 2000 to 2005 which is expected to be completed by the end of March 2007.
The primary focus of the tax authorities review is evaluating the transfer pricing policies applied for sales of copper cathodes and other products.
iii Period for additional tax assessments The tax authorities are able to raise additional tax assessments for five years after the end of the relevant tax period in respect of all taxes, except for excess profits tax.
In respect of the excess profit tax they are able to raise additional tax assessments for five years after the expiration of the terms of the relevant subsoil contract.
iv Possible additional tax liabilities The Directors believe that the Group is in substantial compliance with tax legislation and any contractual terms entered into that relate to tax which affect its operations and that, consequently, no additional tax liabilities will arise.
However, due to the reasons set out above, the risk remains that the relevant Government authorities may take a differing position with regard to the interpretation of contractual provisions or tax legislation.
The resulting effect of this matter is that significant additional tax liabilities may arise.
However, due to the range of uncertainties described above in assessing any potential additional tax liabilities, it is not practicable for the Directors to estimate the financial effect in terms of the amount of additional tax liabilities, if any, together with any associated penalties and charges for which the Group may be liable.
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S K A Z AK HM YS PLC 117 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 33. cOmmitmeNts aNd cONtiNgeNcies continued c GERMAN TAxATIoN CoNTINGENCIES i Status of tax audits The German tax authorities have commenced a tax audit of MKM for the years 1999 to 2002, which will be finalised in 2007.
The years from 2003 to 2006 remain open for inspection.
Consequently, the tax figures recorded in the financial statements for these years may be subject to change.
ii Payments of future utilised tax losses In accordance with the privatisation agreement between the successor body of the former state-controlled shareholder in MKM, BMBG  Berlin GmbH BMGB and Lamitref Holding B. V. dated 18 December 1995, to the extent that MKM utilises tax losses against taxable income, it is required to make certain agreed upon payments to BMGB.
The maximum payment that would be payable to BMGB is $115.5 million.
As MKM has reported tax losses in recent years, no payment to BMGB has been necessary to date.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the tax losses at MKM refer to note 12 and, consequently, no corresponding liability in respect of payments to BMGB has been recognised.
d INSuRANCE The insurance industry in Kazakhstan is in a developing state and many forms of insurance protection common in other parts of the world are not yet generally available.
The Group has purchased a catastrophic insurance programme in the London market to mitigate the effect of the loss or damage of certain of its assets located at its plant facilities and the resultant business interruption although such a programme may not provide full cover in the event of a major loss.
The Group does not have third party liability coverage in respect of property or environmental damage arising from accidents on Group property or relating to the Groups operations.
There is a risk that the loss or destruction of certain assets could have a material adverse effect on the Groups operations and financial position.
e ENvIRoNMENTAL CoNTINGENCIES Environmental regulations in Kazakhstan are continually evolving.
The outcome of the environmental regulations under proposed or any future environmental legislation cannot be estimated at present.
As obligations are determined, they will be provided for in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
The Directors believe that there are no significant liabilities under current legislation not accrued for in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The provision that has been made for costs associated with restoration and abandonment of mine sites upon depletion of deposits see note 27, is based upon the estimation of Kazakhmys LLCs specialists.
Where events occur that change the level of estimated future costs for these activities, the provision will be adjusted accordingly.
f uSE oF SubSoIL RIGhTS In Kazakhstan, all subsoil reserves belong to the State, with the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources the Ministry granting exploration and production rights to third party bodies.
Subsoil rights are not granted in perpetuity, and any renewal must be agreed before the expiration of the relevant contract or licence.
These rights may be terminated by the Ministry if the Group does not satisfy its contractual obligations.
The current subsoil rights will expire at varying dates up to 2025. g obLIGATIoNS To PENSIoN FuNd bENEFICIARIES The pension scheme is run by ABN Amro Bank Kazakhstan, and is termed the Accumulating Pension Funds of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC the Fund.
The Fund is a corporate accumulative pension fund established under the laws of Kazakhstan.
Most of Kazakhmys LLCs employees and former employees are beneficiaries, and are entitled to an amount comprising the indexed value of their contributions.
Under Kazakhstan law, the Fund calculates the benefits of its members on an annual basis.
Kazakhmys LLC does not make any contributions to the Fund on behalf of its employees.
The Funds rules set out that the payment obligation to Fund beneficiaries is based on the nominal value of contributions, indexed in accordance with a formula set out in the Funds rules.
In the event that the assets of the Fund are insufficient to cover the payment obligations to the beneficiaries, the voting shareholders of the Fund including Kazakhmys LLC are jointly liable for the shortfall.
The last valuation as at 31 December 2006 showed the Funds payment obligations were $134.0 million 2005: $102.4 million, and the fair market value of the Funds assets amounted to $158.1 million 2005: $119.6 million.
h CoMMITMENTS IN RESPECT oF ThE ACquISITIoN oF MKM In the context of its acquisition of MKM in December 2004, the Group is committed to invest approximately $43.0 million in capital expenditure by 31 December 2008, inject working capital of $37.0 million and ensure MKM employs at least 1,006 employees up to 31 December 2006.
As at 31 December 2006, $18.1 million had been invested in capital expenditure in MKM since acquisition.
The average number of employees during the year ended 31 December 2006 was 1,045.
