144 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 imC gRoup Consulting limited Revision of ReseRves and ResouRCes statement to 31 deCemBeR 2006 IMC Group Consulting Ltd IMC has undertaken a review of the reserves and resources estimates prepared by Kazakhmys PLC the Company, as the basis for the preparation of a statement of reserves and resources as at 31 December 2006.
This reserves and resources statement follows the same criteria employed and updates the Statement of Reserves and Resources as at 31 December 2005 as disclosed within the Companys 2005 Annual Report.
The Statement of Reserves and Resources are restated in accordance with the criteria of the Australasian Code for Reporting Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves 2004, published by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and collaborating institutions the JORC Code.
The Company is to be commended in introducing computer-based systems during 2006 for resources data-handling in the Zhezkazgan Complex and for the modelling of its proposed new major projects.
A more rigorous approach can and has been applied to the definition of Modifying Factors applied to the estimation of commercial reserves.
Corporate planning policy has defined factors for losses and dilution specific to all of Kazakhmys individual mines based on operational experience in 2005 and 2006.
The criteria previously used for the distinction between measured and indicated resources were potentially ambiguous for the mature mines of the Zhezkazgan Complex in particular.
The category Measured Resource has been restricted to that ore which has been exposed or is in the process of development within the rolling three-year forward operations plan as formally reported to the State Reserves Committee.
For the present statement as at 31 December 2006, this change of perspective has a noticeable impact on the current reserve and resource statement.
IMC is satisfied, from the review undertaken, that the recently revised estimates of reserves and resources prepared by the Company is in accordance with the reserve classification system required by law in the Republic of Kazakhstan and that, correspondingly, the estimates have a consistent basis for expressing the degree of confidence for stating quantities of exploitable ore at specific grades of metal content.
On the basis of the estimates supplied by the Company, IMC has applied the same criteria as expressed in the Competent Persons Report at the time of Listing for preparation of the restatement of reserves and resources as at 31 December 2006, in accordance with the reporting criteria of the JORC code.
IMC were additionally assigned to confirm the operations statements which were considered to be representative and correct.
John s WaRWiCk BsC hons fimmm, C eng, euR ing diReCtoR, imC 7 February 2007 imC gRoup Consulting ltd Innovate Office Building Lake View Drive Annesley Nottinghamshire NG15 0DT United Kingdom
