80 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 NoTE S To ThE CoNSoLI dATEd FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S Year ended 31 December 2006 1. cOrpOrate iNfOrmatiON a oRGANISATIoN ANd oPERATIoN Kazakhmys PLC the Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
The Companys registered address is 6th Floor, Cardinal Place, 100 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL, United Kingdom.
The Group comprises the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as set out below.
The Groups operations are primarily conducted through the Companys principal subsidiary, Kazakhmys Corporation LLC Kazakhmys LLC.
The Group operates in the mining industry.
Its major business is the mining and processing of copper ore into cathode copper and copper wire, and the refining and sale of precious metals and other by-products of its copper mining process.
It also provides other services to various external customers.
The principal activities of the Company and its significant subsidiaries as at 31 December 2006 and 2005 are as follows: Operating entity Principal activity Country of incorporation Kazakhmys PLC Holding company and sales United Kingdom Kazakhmys LLC Mining and processing copper Republic of Kazakhstan MKM Mansfelder Kupfer und Messing GmbH Copper processing Federal Republic of Germany b KAzAKhSTAN buSINESS ENvIRoNMENT ANd CouNTRy RISK The Groups operations are subject to country risk being the economic, political and social risks inherent in doing business in Kazakhstan.
These risks include matters arising out of the policies of the Government, economic conditions, imposition of, or changes to taxes and regulations, foreign exchange rate fluctuations and the enforceability of contract rights.
The consolidated financial statements reflect the Directors assessment of the impact of the Kazakhstan business environment on the operations and the financial position of the Group.
The future business environment may differ from the Directors assessment.
c FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is exposed to the effect of fluctuations in the price of copper, which is quoted in US dollars on the international markets.
The Group is also exposed, to a lesser degree, to the prices of other metals, including zinc, gold and silver, which are also products produced by the Group.
Refer to note 32 for a description of other financial risks.
d oRE RESERvES ANd RECovERAbILITy oF FIxEd ASSETS The Groups operations are dependent upon the mining and processing of copper ore from deposits in the vicinity of the Groups processing facilities in Zhezkazgan, Balkhash, Karaganda and East Region in Kazakhstan.
The long-term economic viability of the Group is dependent upon the continuing availability of sufficient economically recoverable ore reserves and the ongoing renewal of subsoil use rights.
Basis Of preparatiON The financial statements set out on pages 73 to 123 have been prepared using consistent accounting policies.
The Group has changed the segmental reporting presentation in respect of its operating activities from that disclosed in the 2005 Annual Report.
Whilst corporate costs were not material during 2005, the increased size of the head office following the Listing has resulted in the need to separate corporate costs and balances from the Kazakh Mining segment.
The revised segmental reporting is consistent with the Groups internal management reporting structure.
The Company has taken the exemption under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 and has not published the Company income statement and related notes.
a ACCouNTING FoR ThE ShARE ExChANGE AGREEMENTS RELATING To ThE ACquISITIoN oF KAzAKhMyS LLC Pursuant to various share exchange agreements entered into as a result of the offer made by the Company to shareholders of Kazakhmys LLC, the Company acquired Kazakhmys LLC on 23 November 2004 in consideration for the allotment of ordinary shares of 5 each in the Company or for a cash payment.
The consideration offered for each Kazakhmys LLC share was one ordinary share in the Company or a cash payment of Kazakhstan tenge KZT 4,736.
No shareholder elected to take the cash option and the offer period closed on 7 January 2005.
Pursuant to the share exchange agreements, the Company issued 15,580,210 ordinary shares of 5 each on or around 25 November 2004, a further 568,738 ordinary shares of 5 each were issued in the period 29 December 2004 to 23 August 2005 and an additional 2,000 ordinary shares of 20 pence each were issued on 29 December 2005, equivalent to 80 ordinary shares of 5 each prior to the share split which took place on 23 September 2005 refer to note 25 in which the Companys share capital was redenominated into ordinary shares of 20 pence each.
Immediately after the initial issue of shares pursuant to the share exchange agreements, the Companys interest in Kazakhmys LLC was 93.96%.
This interest increased to 97.40% upon completion of share allotments relating to the share exchange agreements.
