80 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 NoTE S To ThE CoNSoLI dATEd FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S Year ended 31 December 2006 1. cOrpOrate iNfOrmatiON a oRGANISATIoN ANd oPERATIoN Kazakhmys PLC the Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
The Companys registered address is 6th Floor, Cardinal Place, 100 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL, United Kingdom.
The Group comprises the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as set out below.
The Groups operations are primarily conducted through the Companys principal subsidiary, Kazakhmys Corporation LLC Kazakhmys LLC.
The Group operates in the mining industry.
Its major business is the mining and processing of copper ore into cathode copper and copper wire, and the refining and sale of precious metals and other by-products of its copper mining process.
It also provides other services to various external customers.
The principal activities of the Company and its significant subsidiaries as at 31 December 2006 and 2005 are as follows: Operating entity Principal activity Country of incorporation Kazakhmys PLC Holding company and sales United Kingdom Kazakhmys LLC Mining and processing copper Republic of Kazakhstan MKM Mansfelder Kupfer und Messing GmbH Copper processing Federal Republic of Germany b KAzAKhSTAN buSINESS ENvIRoNMENT ANd CouNTRy RISK The Groups operations are subject to country risk being the economic, political and social risks inherent in doing business in Kazakhstan.
These risks include matters arising out of the policies of the Government, economic conditions, imposition of, or changes to taxes and regulations, foreign exchange rate fluctuations and the enforceability of contract rights.
The consolidated financial statements reflect the Directors assessment of the impact of the Kazakhstan business environment on the operations and the financial position of the Group.
The future business environment may differ from the Directors assessment.
c FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is exposed to the effect of fluctuations in the price of copper, which is quoted in US dollars on the international markets.
The Group is also exposed, to a lesser degree, to the prices of other metals, including zinc, gold and silver, which are also products produced by the Group.
Refer to note 32 for a description of other financial risks.
d oRE RESERvES ANd RECovERAbILITy oF FIxEd ASSETS The Groups operations are dependent upon the mining and processing of copper ore from deposits in the vicinity of the Groups processing facilities in Zhezkazgan, Balkhash, Karaganda and East Region in Kazakhstan.
The long-term economic viability of the Group is dependent upon the continuing availability of sufficient economically recoverable ore reserves and the ongoing renewal of subsoil use rights.
Basis Of preparatiON The financial statements set out on pages 73 to 123 have been prepared using consistent accounting policies.
The Group has changed the segmental reporting presentation in respect of its operating activities from that disclosed in the 2005 Annual Report.
Whilst corporate costs were not material during 2005, the increased size of the head office following the Listing has resulted in the need to separate corporate costs and balances from the Kazakh Mining segment.
The revised segmental reporting is consistent with the Groups internal management reporting structure.
The Company has taken the exemption under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 and has not published the Company income statement and related notes.
a ACCouNTING FoR ThE ShARE ExChANGE AGREEMENTS RELATING To ThE ACquISITIoN oF KAzAKhMyS LLC Pursuant to various share exchange agreements entered into as a result of the offer made by the Company to shareholders of Kazakhmys LLC, the Company acquired Kazakhmys LLC on 23 November 2004 in consideration for the allotment of ordinary shares of 5 each in the Company or for a cash payment.
The consideration offered for each Kazakhmys LLC share was one ordinary share in the Company or a cash payment of Kazakhstan tenge KZT 4,736.
No shareholder elected to take the cash option and the offer period closed on 7 January 2005.
Pursuant to the share exchange agreements, the Company issued 15,580,210 ordinary shares of 5 each on or around 25 November 2004, a further 568,738 ordinary shares of 5 each were issued in the period 29 December 2004 to 23 August 2005 and an additional 2,000 ordinary shares of 20 pence each were issued on 29 December 2005, equivalent to 80 ordinary shares of 5 each prior to the share split which took place on 23 September 2005 refer to note 25 in which the Companys share capital was redenominated into ordinary shares of 20 pence each.
Immediately after the initial issue of shares pursuant to the share exchange agreements, the Companys interest in Kazakhmys LLC was 93.96%.
This interest increased to 97.40% upon completion of share allotments relating to the share exchange agreements.
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S K A Z AK HM YS PLC 81 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 2.
Basis Of preparatiON continued As the share exchange transaction entered into on 23 November 2004 involved the combination of businesses under common control, the pooling of interests method of accounting has been applied in the presentation of the consolidated financial statements for the two years ended 31 December 2006 which present the results of the Group as if the Company had always been the parent company of Kazakhmys LLC.
b bASIS oF ACCouNTING The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain classes of property, plant and equipment which have been revalued at 1 January 2002 to determine deemed cost as part of the first-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS at that date, and derivative financial instruments which have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars $ and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest million dollars except when otherwise indicated.
c bASIS oF CoNSoLIdATIoN The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2006 and the Groups financial performance for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, the purchase consideration is allocated to the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities on the basis of their fair value at the date of acquisition.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recognised as positive goodwill.
Negative goodwill arises where the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of the subsidiary exceeds the cost of the acquisition.
Negative goodwill is recognised directly in the income statement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Minority interests primarily represent the interests in Kazakhmys LLC not held by the Company.
Refer to note 46 for a list of the Companys significant subsidiaries.
d STATEMENT oF CoMPLIANCE The consolidated financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB, as adopted by the European Union up to 31 December 2006, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985. e NEw STANdARdS ANd INTERPRETATIoNS NoT yET AdoPTEd In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Group has not applied the following relevant standards and interpretations that have been issued but are not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and consequential amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital disclosures, which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their significance and the nature and extent of risks to which they give rise.
More specifically, the Group will need to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail.
There will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
IFRS 8 Operating segments which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Upon adoption of IFRS 8, the Group will have to disclose additional financial and descriptive information about its reportable segments.
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives, which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006.
IFRIC 9 requires that an entity must assess whether an embedded derivative is required to be separated from the host contract and accounted for as a derivative when the entity first becomes a party to the contract, and that subsequent reassessment is not required unless there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows under the contract.
IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment, which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
IFRIC 10 addresses the requirements of IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting and those in other standards on the recognition and reversal in financial statements of impairment losses on goodwill and certain financial assets.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and treasury scheme transactions, which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
IFRIC 11 provides further guidance on the application of IFRS 2 Share based payments in specific situations.
The Directors do not anticipate, in light of the circumstances prevailing at the date of approval of this Annual Report, that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group in the period of initial application.
82 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 NoTES To ThE CoNSoLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 2.
Basis Of preparatiON continued f SIGNIFICANT ACCouNTING JudGEMENTS ANd ESTIMATES i Judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the Directors have made the following judgements, apart from those involving estimates, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: Impairment indicators The Group monitors internal and external indicators of impairment relating to its tangible and intangible assets.
Management has considered whether any indicators of impairment have arisen relating to the Groups MKM business, particularly with respect to the ability of MKMs plant and equipment to operate at its planned capacity within the foreseeable future.
After assessing the feasibility of the technological and financial plan of MKMs plant and equipment for the next 12 months, management has concluded that no impairment indicator has arisen during and since the end of the financial year.
Determination of excess profits taxation The determination of the Groups obligations and expenses for taxes requires an interpretation of tax legislation.
Excess profits tax EPT is imposed on the Group in addition to Kazakh corporate income tax on certain profitable subsoil contracts.
EPT is based on an approximation of the internal rate of return IRR with EPT being applicable only where the IRR in the current year exceeds 20%.
In determining the IRR for each subsoil contract, there is judgement involved as to the allocation of profit amongst the Groups subsoil contracts, the nature of deductions for capital expenditure, the timing of those deductions and the time period over which the IRR is determined for each subsoil contract.
Management believes its judgements are reasonable and in compliance with the legislation, although there is a risk that the tax authorities will have a different interpretation of tax legislation.
Accounting for potential transfer pricing liabilities Prior to 31 December 2004, Kazakhmys LLC sold its exported products to Apro Limited Apro under an exclusive purchasing agreement.
Apro purchased products from the Group at a discount to the prevailing LME price to reflect the fact that the significant commercial and credit risks were borne by Apro.
Management exercised its judgement in ensuring the said discount was commensurate with the transfer of risks from Kazakhmys LLC to Apro.
For the years ended 31 December 2005 and 2006, Kazakhmys LLC sold its exported products to Kazakhmys PLC under an exclusive purchasing agreement at the prevailing LME price reflecting the balance of commercial and credit risks shared between Kazakhmys LLC and Kazakhmys PLC.
Management has recognised the nature of the transfer pricing legislation promulgated in Kazakhstan in determining any consequential tax liabilities in this jurisdiction resulting from the sale of exported products to Apro in the years 2002 to 2004 and to Kazakhmys PLC for the years 2005 and 2006.
Accounting for option agreement with Executive Chairman During the year, the Company announced that an entity wholly owned by the Companys Executive Chairman, Vladimir Kim, had agreed to acquire a 25% stake in ENRC Kazakhstan Holding B. V. EKH, the holding company for certain assets of the Eurasia Natural Resources groups metals and mining business.
The Company has been given the benefit of a call option in respect of Vladimir Kims shareholding in EKH which is exercisable from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2007 for an amount of $751 million plus a 10% margin.
In accordance with IAS 39, such a derivative financial instrument should be recorded on the balance sheet if the option can be reliably measured.
To be able to reliably measure the option, the variability in the range of fair value estimates should not be significant, and the probabilities of the various estimates within the range should be capable of being reasonably assessed.
There currently remain significant differences in the fair value estimates being obtained for EKH by the Groups external advisers and other parties, and the probability of each value cannot be reasonably assessed.
Management has therefore considered the requirements of IAS 39 in this regard and are of the view that the fair value cannot be reliably measured on the basis that, to date, insufficient information on EKHs financial performance, position and cash flows has been made available to the Company in order to arrive at a reliable valuation for the option.
Consequently the option is valued at cost, which is nil, due to the fact that no payment was made by the Company to enter into the option with Vladimir Kim.
ii Estimation uncertainty The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the Directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from these estimates.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty considered by the Directors in preparing the consolidated financial statements are described in the following notes: Note 12 Income tax.
Note 16 Property, plant and equipment.
Note 34 c Option agreement with Executive Chairman.
