F i n A n C i A l s tAt e m e n t s K A Z AK HM YS PLC 125 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 teChniC Al fide sCRip tion oF FACilitie s ZheZkaZgan Complex The Zhezkazgan underground operations consist of the Annensky, East, South, Stepnoy and West mines.
All of the underground operations utilise fully-mechanised room-and-pillar mining methods with pillar extraction.
The open pit North mine comprises the Achi Spassky mine and a group of small open pit mines in the Zhilandy licence area and all utilise shovel and truck methods.
Achi Spassky is currently undergoing a waste push-back prior to recommencing ore production in 2008 and the other open pits are stripping waste and producing ore. Zhomart formerly Zhaman-Aybat is to the south of Zhezkazgan and is a fully-mechanised room-and-pillar underground mine with pillar extraction and commenced production of ore in 2006.
Ore from the Zhezkazgan operations feeds the Satpaev and the two Zhezkazgan concentrators and these concentrates are processed in the Zhezkazgan smelter to copper cathode and a limited quantity of copper rod.
The refinery slimes, containing precious metals, are sent to the Balkhash Complex for further processing.
Kazakhmys LLC produces sulphuric acid at its Zhezkazgan site.
Access decline development work is currently taking place at the Zhilandy underground project to allow for the underground mining of ore once the open pits at Zhilandy have reached their economic limits.
Balkhash Complex The Balkhash Complex operations consist of the Kounrad open pit and the Sayak and Shatyrkul underground mines.
The Kounrad pit, immediately adjacent to the town of Balkhash, commenced operations in 1936 and employs shovel and truck methods with rail haulage in the upper levels of the pit.
The Kounrad mine is currently being prepared for a major waste push back which will reduce ore production from 2007 for a time with the pit gradually returning to its new production level in 2011.
The Sayak mine consists of the Sayak I and Sayak III Tastau underground mines.
A fully-mechanised multi-lift room-and-pillar method is used at the Sayak mines as well as sub-level caving in more steeply dipping areas.
The Shatyrkul mine employs continuous retreat sub-level caving.
A second decline access from surface is currently under construction at Shatyrkul to improve underground haulage efficiency.
Ore is transported by rail from all three operations to the Balkhash concentrator and the concentrates are processed to produce cathode copper and a small quantity of copper wire in the Balkhash smelter and refinery complex.
The Balkhash smelter and refinery also process copper concentrates from the East Region operations.
Zinc concentrates from the East Region are treated at the Balkhash zinc plant to produce zinc metal.
Gold and silver-bearing slimes from the Balkhash and Zhezkazgan refineries tankhouse operations are processed in the Balkhash precious metals plant.
A new acid plant is under construction at Balkhash using gases from the smelter.
The plant is expected to be complete during 2007.
Acid is used within the Group and for sales to third parties.
A major project currently at the scoping stage is the copper molybdenum Aktogay open pit development which is being worked on by a project team.
The Company envisages that a concentrator will be built at the site and concentrates transported to the Balkhash Complex for smelting and refining.
The construction of power lines has commenced.
The Boschekul open pit project is also at the scoping stage.
This is envisaged to be a copper rich polymetallic mine and concentrator complex with the concentrates being sent to Balkhash for treatment.
east Region The East Region comprises six operating underground mines to the north of Ust Kamenogorsk, namely Artemyevskoe, Belousovskoe, Irtyshskoe, Orlovskoe, Nikolaevskoye and .
Orlovskoe uses a horizontal cut-and-fill method with cemented rock fill enabling full recovery of the ore as does the newer Artemyevskoe mine which commenced production in late 2005.
A chamber method of cut-and-fill allowing increased stope heights is being used in suitable areas of Artemyevskoe, Belousovskoe and Irtyshskoe both employ predominantly shrinkage stoping.
Some areas of Belousovskoe also employ mechanised room-and-pillar methods.
Sublevel caving is used at  mine.
Open pit operations ceased at Nikolaevskoe during 2006 and ore is now produced from an underground mine developed from the base of the open pit.
A sub-level caving method is used.
Ore from the Orlovskoe mine feeds the adjacent concentrator at the same site while ore from the remaining mines is all trucked and railed to the Nikolaevskoe concentrator.
All of the concentrate produced is processed at Balkhash.
kaRaganda Region The Karaganda Region operates the Abyz, Kosmurun, and Nurkazgan open pits.
Nurkazgan comprises the West and the North open pits employing conventional truck and shovel operations.
Operations took place predominately in the West pit during 2006 and this will continue into early 2007 after which open pit operations at West pit will cease.
Overburden stripping commenced in North pit at the end of 2006 to enable ore production during 2007.
A new underground mine will be constructed during this time.
Ore is currently railed to the Balkhash concentrator but a new concentrator is under construction at Nurkazgan and is planned to be operational during 2007.
Kosmurun open pit commenced open pit operations during 2006 and will continue throughout 2007.
Conventional truck and shovel operations are in use and ore from the pit is trucked to the Karagaily concentrator plant.
Akbastau project, adjacent to the operating Kosmurun mine, is ready for construction and the timing is dependent on the operations at Kosmurun.
Ore from Akbastau will be trucked to the Karagaily concentrator until a new concentrator close to Kosmurun can be completed.
In both these mines, production is planned eventually to be from underground developments.
Ore mining at the Abyz open pit ceased during 2006 and no ore production will take place during 2007 while the pit undergoes a waste push back and the Karagaily concentrator is optimised to increase gold recovery.
Ore mining is expected to recommence in 2008.
