Auditors report on the company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members includes that specific information presented in Opinion of Kelda Group plc the business review that is cross-referred from the In our opinion: We have audited the parent company financial business review section of the directors report.
the parent company financial statements give statements of Kelda Group plc for the year ended We also report to you if, in our opinion, the a true and fair view, in accordance with United 31 March 2006 which comprise the company company has not kept proper accounting Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 13. records, if we have not received all the information Practice, of the state of the companys affairs These parent company financial statements have and explanations we require for our audit, as at 31 March 2006: been prepared under the accounting policies set or if information specified by law regarding out therein.
We have also audited the information the parent company financial statements and directors remuneration and other transactions in the Directors Remuneration Report that is the part of the Directors Remuneration is not disclosed.
described as having been audited.
Report to be audited have been properly We read other information contained in prepared in accordance with the Companies We have reported separately on the group the Annual Report and consider whether it is Act 1985: and financial statements of Kelda Group plc for the consistent with the audited parent company year ended 31 March 2006. the information given in the directors report financial statements.
The other information is consistent with the parent company This report is made solely to the companys comprises only the unaudited part of the financial statements.
members, as a body, in accordance with Section Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work Statement and the Business Review.
We consider Ernst & Young LLP has been undertaken so that we might state to the implications for our report if we become Registered auditor the companys members those matters we are aware of any apparent misstatements or material Leeds required to state to them in an auditors report inconsistencies with the parent company financial 24 May 2006 and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend permitted by law, we do not accept or assume to any other information.
responsibility to anyone other than the company Basis of audit opinion and the companys members as a body, for our We conducted our audit in accordance with audit work, for this report, or for the opinions International Standards on Auditing UK and we have formed.
Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Respective responsibilities of directors and An audit includes examination, on a test basis, auditors of evidence relevant to the amounts and The directors are responsible for preparing disclosures in the parent company financial the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration statements and the part of the Directors Report and the parent company financial Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also statements in accordance with applicable United includes an assessment of the significant Kingdom law and accounting standards United estimates and judgements made by the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting directors in the preparation of the parent Practice as set out in the Statement of company financial statements, and of whether Directors Responsibilities.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied Our responsibility is to audit the parent company and adequately disclosed.
financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as with relevant legal and regulatory requirements to obtain all the information and explanations and International Standards on Auditing UK which we considered necessary in order to and Ireland.
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company We report to you our opinion as to whether financial statements and the part of the the parent company financial statements give a Directors Remuneration Report to be audited true and fair view, the parent company financial are free from material misstatement, whether statements and the part of the directors caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
remuneration report to be audited have been In forming our opinion we also evaluated the properly prepared in accordance with the overall adequacy of the presentation of Companies Act 1985 and that the information information in the parent company financial given in the directors report is consistent with statements and the part of the Directors the parent company financial statements.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
This information given in the directors report Kelda Group plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
