Directors report KPI Glossary of terms Waste water treatment works compliance Group financial key performance indicators Non-financial key performance indicators The Environment Agency issues consents to allow Group interest cover Overall customer satisfaction the discharge of treated water from waste water This measure provides an indication of whether the The group recognises the value of listening to treatment works.
The three principal consented groups profit is sufficient to cover its interest customers in order to deliver improvements that limits are for suspended solids, biochemical obligations and is calculated as group operating not only meet but surpass expectations.
A range of other profit from continuing operations divided by the substances may be limited depending on the type net of finance costs and investment income.
These Customer satisfaction is monitored on a regular of discharge.
This indicator shows loads for the figures are disclosed in the audited accounts in the basis using a combination of random telephone following determinands: group income statement.
suspended solids, which can clog fish gills Yorkshire Waters tracker research is an ongoing Cash interest Funds From Operations and blanket the river bed, thereby destroying telephone survey involving 220 customers chosen FFO cover fish habitat: at random each month.
This monitors customers FFO cover measures the groups ability to meet its general perceptions and the experience that interest payments.
This is calculated as net cash biochemical oxygen demand BOD, which is customers receive when they come into contact inflow from operating activities, excluding interest a measure of the amount of oxygen consumed with the company.
paid, divided by net interest paid.
These figures are in water usually by organic pollution and disclosed in the audited accounts in the group therefore reflects the quality of the water: The survey covers a range of issues including cash flow statement.
satisfaction with the service received and whether ammonia, which is toxic to fish: the customer agrees that Yorkshire Water is Group gearing trustworthy, listens to its customers, considers the This ratio measures the proportion of assets invested phosphate, which can lead to eutrophication in customers point of view, deals with complaints in the business that are financed by borrowing and fresh waters.
quickly and satisfactorily, is enjoyable to deal with, is calculated as net debt as a proportion of net is sensitive to the customers needs and plays key debt plus net assets.
These figures are disclosed in All waste water treatment works are monitored roles in protecting the environment and helping the audited accounts in the group balance sheet for compliance with their discharge consents and people within the community.
and note 27 on additional cash flow information.
the receiving waters are monitored to assess their compliance with water quality targets.
The Ongoing event-based surveys cover nine specific frequency of monitoring depends on the size of Earnings per share EPS areas of customer contacts, namely clean water the treatment works: small works are monitored EPS is an important measure of performance and and waste water repair and maintenance work, on a quarterly basis and large works are monitored growth.
EPS is calculated on several different bases, customer visits by water and waste water field every week.
all of which are disclosed in the audited accounts technicians, meter installations, supply pipe repairs, at the foot of the group income statement.
Basic new supply applications, mains rehabilitation EPS is expressed as profit for the year attributable works and the contact centre.
Reportable and notifiable accidents to shareholders, divided by the weighted average The Health and Safety Commission is responsible number of shares ranking for dividend.
Adjusted for health and safety regulation in Great Britain.
Water quality EPS excludes the impact of exceptional items.
The Health and Safety Executive and local The Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI regulates government are the enforcing authorities who public water supplies in England and Wales.
work in support of the Commission.
Yorkshire Water financial key performance It is responsible for assessing the quality of drinking indicators RIDDOR or the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and water, taking enforcement action if standards are Yorkshire Water net debt to Regulatory Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 place a not being met and appropriate action when water Capital Value RCV legal duty on employers to notify and report some is unfit for human consumption.
The RCV of Yorkshire Water is determined by Ofwat work-related accidents, diseases and dangerous and is the value of the capital base on which a occurrences.
The Government has set legal standards for return is allowed for price setting purposes.
The drinking water in the Water Quality Regulations.
values are calculated and published annually by These include, for example: Most of these standards come directly from Ofwat.
This ratio expresses Yorkshire Waters European law and are based on World Health regulated net debt as a proportion of the RCV, both deaths: Organisation guidelines.
The UK has additional of which are published in Yorkshire Waters audited standards to safeguard the already high quality of regulatory accounts.
major injuries: water in England and Wales.
The standards are strict and generally include wide safety margins.
over-three-day injuries where an employee or They cover: self-employed person is away from work or unable to work normally for more than three bacteria: consecutive days: chemicals such as nitrate and pesticides: metals such as lead: injuries to members of the public or people not the way the water looks and how it tastes.
at work where they are taken from the scene of an accident to hospital: Professor Jeni Colbourne, the current Chief Inspector of Drinking Water, is due to publish her some work-related diseases using the F2508A report for 2005 in July 2006. report form : According to the DWIs last report published in dangerous occurrences where something July 2005, of the 447,822 tests carried out in the happens that does not result in an injury, but previous calendar year, 99.97% complied fully with could have done.
the UKs stringent, health-related quality standards 2003: 99.93%.
Kelda Group plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
