Keller Group plc Group Financial Contents 33 Directors Report 35 Remuneration Report 42 Corporate Governance 46 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 47 Independent Auditors Report 48 Consolidated Income Statement 48 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 49 Consolidated Balance Sheet 50 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 51 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 71 Company Balance Sheet 72 Notes to the Company Accounts 77 Financial Record 78 Notice of Annual General Meeting 80 Principal Ofces 81 Secretary and Advisers 32 Keller Group plc Group Financial Contents Directors Report The Directors present their report, together with the audited Results and dividends accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The results for the year, showing a profit before taxation of 83.7m 2005: 48.8m, are set out on page 48. Business review and principal activities The Directors recommend a final dividend of 11.4p Keller Group plc is a holding company.
Its principal subsidiary per share to be paid on 29 June 2007, to members on the undertakings are engaged in specialist ground engineering, register at the close of business on 1 June 2007.
An interim providing the construction industry around the world with an dividend of 4.2p per share was paid on 1 November 2006. extensive range of problem-solving techniques and services.
The total dividend for the year of 15.6p 2005: 12.0p will A review of the Groups progress and prospects may amount to 10.3m 2005: 7.8m.
Future outlook Markets and competition The outlook for the Group can be found on page 5.
Ground engineering markets worldwide tend to be highly fragmented.
Keller has a small number of international Directors competitors, who operate in many of the same markets The names and biographical details of the Directors who hold as Keller.
The vast majority of Kellers competitors, however, ofce at the date of this report are given on pages 30 and 31. operate at a national, or regional, level, reecting the local nature All served throughout the year.
The interests of the Directors in of the construction industry.
Many are family-owned businesses the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration offering a narrow product range or occasionally a single product.
In the UK and parts of Continental Europe, several of the large The Companys Articles of Association indemnify the general contractors have their own, in-house ground engineering Directors out of the assets of the Company in the event that capability, whereas in the US, Kellers biggest market, and in they suffer any loss or liability in the execution of their duties Australia general contractors generally outsource to specialist as Directors, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act ground engineering sub-contractors, such as Keller.
in our major markets during 2006 are discussed in the Operating Review on page 11.
Retirement and re-election Dr Bond, Mr Hind and Dr Sondermann will retire by rotation Strategy at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer Our overriding strategic objective is the further consolidation of themselves for re-election.
Dr West, having served on the Board our global leadership in specialist ground engineering services, as a Non-executive Director for nine years, will also offer himself through a combination of organic growth and targeted for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
There are three key elements to our strategy: transfer of technologies and methods within our current Substantial shareholdings geographic regions: At 28 February 2007, the Company had been informed of expansion into new geographic regions: and the following interests in the Companys issued ordinary acquisition and development of new technologies share capital: and methods.
Percentage Progress against our strategic objective during the year Number of issued is summarised in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and of shares share in the Operating Review on pages 11 to 20. held capital Barclays PLC 9,803,400 14.9% Principal risks and uncertainties and key J P Morgan Chase & Co. 6,032,294 9.2% performance indicators Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 3,941,797 6.0% The key business risks and uncertainties affecting the GTCEISU Construccin, S. A.
3,691,985 5.6% Group are considered to relate to market cycles, acquisitions, Legal & General Investment technical risk and people.
These are explained more fully Management 2,613,516 3.9% in the Operating Review, where the key performance indicators, Deutsche Bank AG 2,522,138 3.8% measuring our success in managing these risks, are also shown.
AXA Rosenberg Investment Management 2,168,702 3.3% Apart from these interests, the Company has not been notied, and is not aware, of any other person who is directly or indirectly materially interested in 3% or more, or who has a non-material interest in 10% or more, of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
33 Keller Group plc Directors Report Directors Report continued Research and development Going concern Keller has a reputation for engineering excellence and The accounts have been prepared on the going concern innovation.
The Group has in-house design, development basis as the Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, and manufacturing facilities where staff work closely with consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue site engineers continually to develop new and more effective in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
methods of solving problems of ground behaviour.
Much of the specialised equipment we use is designed and built by Keller.
Payments to suppliers The Groups policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to settle Management of financial risks terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction Currency risk and to abide by those terms, providing that it is satisfied that The Group faces currency risk principally on its net assets, the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance of which a large proportion is in currencies other than sterling.
with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group does not The Group aims to reduce the impact that retranslation of these follow any code or statement on payment practice.
assets might have on the balance sheet, by matching the At 31 December 2006 the Group had 59 days 2005: currency of its borrowing, where possible, with the currency 66 days purchases outstanding.
of its assets, thereby creating a hedge.
The Group manages its currency ows to minimise Political and charitable contributions currency transaction exchange risk.
Forward contracts and No contributions were made to any political party during the year.
other derivative financial instruments are used to hedge Donations made by the Group in the UK for charitable purposes significant individual transactions.
The majority of such currency were 7,000 2005: 5,000. ows within the Group relate to repatriation of profits and intraGroup loan repayments.
The Groups foreign exchange cover Social responsibility is executed primarily in the UK.
At 31 December 2006 there The Groups approach to employee involvement, disabled were no material forward exchange contracts outstanding persons, health and safety and the environment are discussed 2005: None.
in the Social Responsibility Report on pages 24 to 29.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments nor does it engage in speculative derivative transactions.
Annual General Meeting The full wording of the resolutions to be tabled at the forthcoming Interest rate risk Annual General Meeting is set out in the Notice of Annual Interest rate risk is managed by mixing xed and oating General Meeting on page 78. rate borrowings depending upon the purpose and term of the nancing.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Credit risk Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, The Groups principal financial assets are bank and cash there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys balances and trade and other receivables.
These represent the Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself assets.
This risk is managed by limiting the aggregate amount aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that of exposure to any such institution or customer by reference the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
to their credit rating and by regular review of these ratings.
The possibility of material loss in this way is considered unlikely.
Auditors In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, Corporate governance a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as This is the subject of a separate report on pages 42 to 45 which Auditors to the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming details the Companys compliance with the Combined Code Annual General Meeting.
on Corporate Governance as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Remuneration Report is set On behalf of the Board out on pages 35 to 41.
Jackie Holman Secretary 28 February 2007 34 Keller Group plc Directors Report Remuneration Report Introduction Remuneration policy and arrangements In preparing this report, the Committee has complied with The objective of the remuneration policy is to ensure that the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the members of the Groups senior management are provided with Regulations and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and the Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual Authority.
A resolution to approve the report will be proposed contributions to the success of the Company.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Executive Directors are assessed individually so that their The Regulations require the Auditors to report to the remuneration is directly related to their performance over time Companys members on the auditable part of the Remuneration and a significant proportion of their remuneration package Report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the is performance related.
report has been properly prepared in accordance with the The Committee has adopted the principle that basic salary Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The should be set broadly in line with the median for executives in report has therefore been divided into separate sections for a role of comparable standing and that Executive Directors unaudited and audited information.
Within the unaudited section, should be able to achieve total remuneration at the market the report deals with the remuneration policy that is to be upper quartile level when justied by superior performance.
Since the year end, the Committee has reviewed the remuneration of the Executive Directors, two of whom are based Unaudited information in the UK and two overseas.
NBSC benchmarked their total Remuneration Committee remuneration packages against those of executives with similar The Company has established a Remuneration Committee roles in comparator companies in the lower half of the FTSE 250 the Committee in accordance with the recommendations and also, in the case of the two overseas Directors, in their local of the Code.
The names of members of the Committee are markets.
In addition, the packages of the UKand US-based given below.
The Committee was chaired by Mr Brown, and Directors were compared with those of executives in similar roles all members served on the Committee, throughout the year.
Following this review, some adjustments have been made to the packages to improve further the link Committee members between reward and performance and to ensure that the E G F Brown Chairman packages are market competitive.
The details of the component Dr K Bond parts of the package are set out below.
K F Payne R T Scholes Elements of remuneration There are five main elements of the remuneration package for The Committees terms of reference are available on the Executive Directors and selected senior managers: basic salary, Groups website and on request from the Company Secretary.
performance-related annual bonus, long-term incentive The principal function of the Committee is to agree the arrangements, pension arrangements and other benets.
framework and policy for the remuneration of the Groups senior management and to determine, on behalf of the Board, i Basic salary the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors.
The Salaries for Executive Directors are determined by the Committee is also responsible for monitoring the level and Committee before the start of each year and when an individual structure of remuneration for senior management and for changes position or responsibility.
annually reviewing and noting remuneration trends across the In line with the principle that basic salary should be set Group.
As more than 85% of the workforce is based outside the broadly in line with the median, and following the benchmarking UK, remuneration packages for the Groups senior management exercise carried out by NBSC, the Committee has approved will vary according to local market norms and conditions.
basic salaries from 1 January 2007 which are in line with the No member of the Committee has any personal financial median for the lower half of the FTSE 250 and consistent with interest other than as a shareholder, conict of interest arising sector and local market benchmarks, where applicable.
Whilst from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the Company is at the lower quartile of the lower half of the the business.
No Director plays a part in any discussion about FTSE 250 in terms of market capitalisation, it is at the upper his own remuneration.
As discussed in the Corporate quartile in terms of turnover and profits.
Furthermore, the UK Governance Report on pages 42 to 45, the Board considers business accounts for just 13% of turnover and thus the level Mr Brown, Dr Bond, Mr Payne and Mr Scholes to be of the overseas business activities, spread across more than Independent Directors.
30 countries, means that the Group roles involve a greater The frequency of, and attendance at, meetings of the degree of complexity than for most other UK-listed companies Committee during the year is shown in the Corporate of a similar size.
In approving the 2007 salaries for Executive Governance Report on page 43.
Directors, the Committee has also taken into account In determining the Executive Directors remuneration for remuneration levels and trends across the Group.
the year, the Committee has consulted Dr West, the Chairman and Mr Atkinson, the Chief Executive about its proposals, except in the case of Mr Atkinson in relation to his own remuneration.
During the year, the Committee has received advice on Executive Directors remuneration from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC, who were appointed by the Committee and who have also advised the Company on the valuation of share-based payments.
35 Keller Group plc Remuneration Report Remuneration Report continued ii Performance-related annual bonus iii Long-term incentive arrangements The maximum annual cash bonuses for Executive Directors The Companys long-term incentive arrangements are intended are set by the Committee and are subject to stretching targets to encourage Executive Directors and selected senior managers linked to financial performance in the year and to individual to focus on long-term, strategic corporate objectives and to performance against objectives set by the Committee.
further align the interests of management and shareholders.
The performance-related bonuses are not pensionable.
Under the Performance Share Plan, approved by In line with the principle that Executive Directors should be shareholders in 2004, performance share awards may be able to achieve total remuneration at the market upper quartile granted each year to selected senior managers.
The rules level when justied by superior performance, the Committee has limit annual awards to 100% of an executives basic annual increased the maximum bonus potential from 1 January 2007 salary, unless the Committee determines that exceptional to 150% of basic annual salary.
As in 2006, bonus representing circumstances exist, eg to facilitate the recruitment or retention up to 100% of salary will only become payable in full where very of a key executive, in which case an award may be granted strong financial performance has been delivered.
Any bonus up to 200% of the relevant executives annual basic salary.
earned in excess of 100% of salary will only become payable for Grants to Executive Directors in 2007 will be made over shares truly exceptional performance above the level of performance worth 100% of salary.
required for 100% of salary to be payable and will be deferred Performance share awards are released to executives after for a period of three years.
The deferred element of the bonus three years, subject to demanding performance conditions being may be satisfied in shares or in cash, at the discretion of the met.
Currently, 50% of a performance share award is conditional Committee and will be subject to continued employment over on targets based on growth in EPS and the remaining 50% is the deferral period.
based on relative total shareholder return TSR against The Group has just delivered two years of exceptional companies comprising the FTSE All-Share Index.
Under this performance and the Committee is satisfied that now is an approach, in order for awards to vest in full, there must be strong appropriate time to increase the annual bonus potential, as financial performance as well as stock market outperformance.
it will provide an even greater focus on the achievement of The Committee has considered carefully the range of stretching operational performance targets from a very high growth targets for awards in 2007. base set in 2006.
The deferred portion will provide a longer-term In prior years, the EPS growth range has been RPI 4% element to the bonus with a good retention mechanism.
It is RPI 9% for between 40% and 100% of the award to vest.
also recognised that base salary levels from which the annual The Committee has decided to reduce the threshold level bonus will be calculated are no higher than market median.
of vesting from 40% to 30% of the award but to keep the The 2007 bonus for Mr Atkinson and Mr Hind will be range unchanged, notwithstanding the fact that 2006 was an linked to the achievement of: outstanding year for the Company with an all-time high level Group earnings per share EPS, profit before tax PBT of earnings.
and average net debt targets: and Two changes have been made to the TSR vesting personal, task-based objectives.
First, the threshold level of vesting has been reduced The 2007 bonus for Mr Rubright and Dr Sondermann will from 40% to 30%.
Second, the level required for maximum be linked to the achievement of: vesting has been reduced from an upper decile level of divisional operating profit and average net debt targets: performance ie top 10% of the companies to upper quintile Group EPS and PBT targets: and level of performance ie top 20% of the companies.
These two personal, task-based objectives.
changes are considered by the Committee to broadly offset For the past two years Mr Rubright has participated in a each other so that the impact on the value of the awards is US Retention Bonus Plan, which has provided an additional cash neutralised.
bonus in light of the truly exceptional performance of the US The following EPS growth targets will apply for awards division.
The plan is designed to motivate and retain individuals granted in 2007: who are considered to be critical to the continued success of For half of the shares subject to Proportion of shares that vest the participating businesses.
Payments into the plan vest in four a performance share award equal amounts at the end of years three, four, five and six, subject to continued employment with the Group.
EPS growth average over 3 years Actual financial performance targets for 2007 are Less than RPI 4% pa 0% considered to be commercially sensitive and accordingly they RPI 4% pa 30% are not disclosed in this report.
RPI 9% pa 100% Between RPI 4% pa and Between 30% and 100% RPI 9% pa on a straight line basis 36 Keller Group plc Remuneration Report Remuneration Report continued For awards granted in 2007, TSR performance will be compared v Other benets to the companies comprising the FTSE All-Share Index at the Other benets for Executive Directors comprise a car and date of grant.
payment of its operating expenses and fuel, or car allowance: private health care: life assurance: and long-term disability For the other half of shares subject Proportion of shares that vest insurance.
to a performance share award Service contracts Relative TSR after 3 years In accordance with general market practice, it is the Companys Below median ranking 0% policy that Executive Directors should have contracts with an Median ranking 30% indefinite term providing for a maximum of one years notice.
Upper quintile ranking 100% However, it may be necessary occasionally to offer longer initial Between median and upper Between 30% and 100% notice periods to attract new directors, provided that the notice quintile ranking on a straight line basis period shall reduce to one year after the initial period.
Service contracts between the Company or other Performance is measured over a single three-year period.
companies in the Group and individuals who served as To the extent that the targets are not achieved, the award lapses.
Executive Directors at any time during the year are At the end of the performance period, TSR calculations are summarised below: independently performed for the Committee by NBSC.
Since 2001, the Group has had an Inland Revenue Director Date of service contract Notice period approved executive share option plan and an unapproved J R Atkinson 11 October 1999 12 months executive share option plan the 2001 Plans.
No options have J W G Hind 16 May 2003 12 months been granted under the 2001 Plans since 2003 and the R M Rubright 8 August 1977 12 months Committee has no current intention of granting further options modied by a under these Plans.
memorandum of employment iv Pension arrangements dated 12 May 2003 Mr Atkinson and Dr West are both members of the Keller Dr W Sondermann 12 February 1998 12 months Group Pension Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme provides modied by a a pension based upon a percentage of final salary and pensions memorandum for dependants on death in service or following retirement.
of employment Dr West retired in 1997 and is currently receiving a pension dated 5 March 2004 under the Scheme.
Mr Rubrights service contract is with Hayward Baker Inc.
The table on page 40 shows Mr Atkinsons accrued Dr Sondermanns service contract is with Keller Holding GmbH.
The Scheme closed to future benefit accrual with effect from 31 March 2006, since when Mr Atkinson has In the event of early termination, the Directors contracts provide received a salary supplement in lieu of a Company contribution for compensation up to a maximum of basic annual salary plus to an alternative pension arrangement.
The salary supplement the fair value of benets to which the Directors are contractually is not taken into account in determining bonuses or any other entitled for the unexpired portion of the notice period.
Company seeks to apply the principle of mitigation in the Dr Sondermann is a member of the dened benefit payment of compensation on the termination of the service pension arrangements established by Keller Grundbau GmbH.
agreement of any Executive Director.
Dr Sondermann is also a member of a dened contribution The Board may allow Executive Directors to accept scheme, as are Mr Hind and Mr Rubright.
external appointments, provided that the Company retains any related remuneration.
In accordance with the Code, the Board will not agree to a full-time executive taking on more than one non-executive directorship, nor the chairmanship of such a company.
None of the Executive Directors held external appointments during 2006.
During the year, 142,000 was paid to Mr T Dobson, 20,000 was paid to Mr K Kirsch and 18,000 was paid to Mr M W C Martin, all former Directors of the Company, for services provided to Group companies.
37 Keller Group plc Remuneration Report Remuneration Report continued Non-executive Directors All Non-executive Directors have specic terms of engagement, the dates of which are set out below.
For Non-executive Directors appointed before 1 October 2003, the initial appointment period is 12 months and thereafter the appointment is subject to three months notice by either party.
Subsequent appointments are for an initial three-year period, and thereafter are subject to review by the Nomination Committee, unless terminated by either party on three months notice.
There are no provisions for compensation payable in the event of early termination.
Director Date of engagement letter Dr K Bond 24 November 2003 renewed 25 January 2007 E G F Brown 18 January 2002 P J Lopez Jimenez 21 January 2003 K F Payne 11 June 1999 R T Scholes 8 February 2002 Dr J M West 8 June 1998 The determination of the Non-executive Directors remuneration, including that of the Chairman, has been delegated by the Board to the Executive Directors, within the limits set by the Articles of Association and based on independent surveys of fees paid to non-executive directors of similar companies.
The fees paid to Non-executive Directors in the year, shown on page 39, are inclusive of the additional work performed for the Company in respect of membership of the Board Committees.
Non-executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Companys shortor long-term incentive arrangements.
Relative performance The following graph shows the Companys performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE All-Share Index.
This index has been selected because it best reects the Companys international nature and size.
The graph looks at the value, by the end of 2006, of 100 invested in Keller on 31 December 2001 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Index.
Total Shareholder Return FTSE All-Share Index Keller 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 38 Keller Group plc Remuneration Report Remuneration Report continued Audited information Directors emoluments for the year ended 31 December 2006 Basic Annual Total Total salary Fees Benets bonus Otheremoluments emoluments 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2005 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive J R Atkinson 325 15 325 73 738 426 J W G Hind 225 11 225 461 315 R M Rubright 206 9 206 272 693 600 Dr W Sondermann 187 10 187 384 277 Non-executive Dr K Bond 35 35 28 E G F Brown 40 40 30 P J Lopez Jimenez 35 35 28 K F Payne 40 40 30 R T Scholes 35 35 28 Dr J M West 9520 115 101 943 280 65 943 345 2,576 1,863 The table above includes a salary supplement of 73,000 paid to Mr Atkinson in lieu of a Company pension contribution from 1 April 2006 and referred to in the pensions section below.
Also included in the table is a payment of 272,000 2005: 275,000 made into the US Retention Bonus Plan on behalf of Mr Rubright.
This was to recognise the outstanding performance delivered by the US business in 2006 and to reect the importance of retaining this key individual, who is seen as critical to the continued success of the US business, in an exuberant labour market.
The payments will vest in four equal amounts after years three, four, five and six, subject to Mr Rubright continuing in employment with the Group.
The fees amounting to 35,000 shown above for Mr Lopez Jimenez were paid to Fapindus, S. L. in respect of his services.
A maximum annual cash bonus of 100% of basic annual salary was set for the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The 2006 bonus targets for Mr Atkinson and Mr Hind were linked to the achievement of Group EPS, PBT and average net debt targets up to 65% of salary : to separate PBT targets relating to the UK businesses up to 10% of salary : and to personal, task-based objectives up to 25% of salary.
The 2006 bonus targets for Mr Rubright and Dr Sondermann were linked to the achievement of Group EPS and PBT targets up to 20% of salary : to divisional operating profit and average net debt targets up to 65% of salary : and to personal, task-based objectives up to 15% of salary.
The baselines for the 2006 Group financial performance targets at which no bonus was payable as adjusted for actual 2006 exchange rates were PBT of 39.0m, EPS of 32.0p and average net debt of 65.0m.
The financial performance targets attracting maximum bonus are considered commercially sensitive and are not, therefore, disclosed.
In light of the exceptionally strong financial performance delivered in 2006, maximum bonuses were payable.
39 Keller Group plc Remuneration Report Remuneration Report continued Directors shareholdings The interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company of Directors holding ofce at the year end were: At 31 December At 31 December 2006 2005 Ordinary Ordinary Director shares shares J R Atkinson 44,329 44,329 E G F Brown 5,000 5,000 P J Lopez Jimenez 3,691,985 5,341,985 K F Payne 10,739 10,739 R M Rubright 40,000 40,000 R T Scholes 5,000 5,000 Dr W Sondermann 62,230 22,230 Dr J M West 1,348,000 1,568,000 Shares are registered in the name of GTCEISU Construccin, S. A. a connected person of Mr Lopez Jimenez.
There have been no changes in Directors shareholdings between the end of the financial year and 28 February 2007.
Entitlements under the Performance Share Plan may be satisfied by ordinary shares provided by the Keller Group plc Employee benefit Trust the Trust.
As potential beneciaries under the Trust, the Directors are deemed to be interested in the shares held by the Trust which, at 31 December 2006, amounted to 54,253 ordinary shares 2005: 62,253.
Directors pension rights In 2006, a pension of 150,000 was paid to Dr West, who retired in 1997, under the Keller Group Pension Scheme.
Company pension contributions for Directors to dened contribution schemes were as follows: 2006 2005 Director 000 000 J W G Hind 41 22 R M Rubright 14 12 Dr W Sondermann 30 9 Total 85 43 Mr Atkinson was paid a salary supplement of 73,000, in lieu of a Company pension contribution, for the period 1 April to 31 December 2006, following the closure to future benefit accrual of the Keller Group Pension Scheme the Scheme.
The changes during the year in the accrued pension entitlements of Mr Atkinson under the Scheme and of Dr Sondermann under the dened benefit pension arrangements operated by Keller Grundbau GmbH are shown in the table below.
The amount shown as accrued pension at the end of the year is that which would be paid annually on retirement, based on service to the end of the year.
The increase in the year in the value of Mr Atkinsons accrued pension under the Scheme reects the removal from 6 April 2006 A day of the Earnings Cap, which previously limited benets payable under the Scheme.
Prior to this, his benets in excess of the Earnings Cap represented an unfunded liability of the Company.
Since A day, benets up to the lifetime allowance can be paid through the Scheme.
The market value of the shares on the dates of grant were: 25 June 2004: 215.0p: 8 March 2005: 296.5p: and 7 March 2006: 445.0p.
In the three-year performance period ended 31 December 2006, average EPS growth was in excess of 70% per annum and TSR ranked in the top decile of the Construction & Building Materials Index, the TSR comparator group for the 2004 grant.
Accordingly, the performance share awards granted on 25 June 2004 will be exercisable in full from 25 June 2007.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2006 was 899.5p and the range during the year was 385.0p to 900.5p.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for share options or performance share awards during the financial year.
On behalf of the Board Gerry Brown Chairman Remuneration Committee 28 February 2007 41 Keller Group plc Remuneration Report Corporate Governance The Company is committed to maintaining high standards Directors and Directors independence of corporate governance.
The Board recognises that it is The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five other Nonaccountable to the Companys shareholders for corporate executive Directors and four Executive Directors.
The names governance and this statement describes how the Company of the Directors at the date of this report, together with their has applied the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate biographical details, are set out on pages 30 and 31.
All these Governance the Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the Directors served throughout the year.
The Board included four UK Listing Authority.
Throughout the year to 31 December Independent Non-executive Directors throughout the year.
2006, save as otherwise explained in the paragraph headed The Board considers all the Non-executive Directors, Compliance with the Code on page 45, the Board believes with the exceptions of Dr West and Mr Lopez Jimenez, to be that the Company was in compliance with the provisions independent of management.
Dr West was Chief Executive from of the Code.
1982 to 1995 and is not, therefore, considered to be independent of management.
Mr Lopez Jimenez is associated with GTCEISU The Board Construccin, S. A. GTCEISU, which is a 49% shareholder in The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors.
Keller-Terra S. L. and a 6% shareholder in Keller Group plc.
Whilst The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, the Board considers Mr Lopez Jimenez to be independent in to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, to approve character and judgement, he is not deemed to be independent the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary of management under the Code, in view of GTCEISUs financial and other resources are made available to enable those shareholding in Keller Group plc.
The Board has a schedule of matters The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge reserved for its approval which is kept under review.
and help to develop proposals on strategy and bring strong Specic responsibilities of the Board include: setting independent judgement, knowledge and experience to Group strategy and approving the annual budget: reviewing the Boards deliberations.
Mr Payne is the Senior operational and financial performance: approving major Independent Director.
acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: reviewing There is an agreed procedure for individual Directors to the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management: obtain independent professional advice and all Directors have ensuring that appropriate management development and unrestricted access to the Company Secretary and Chairman.
succession plans are in place: reviewing the health and safety The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, performance of the Group: approving appointments to the through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
Board: and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration The Chairman has no other significant professional and Directors contracts.
Board papers and other relevant information are circulated The Board had eight formal, scheduled meetings during to the Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board the year.
A table showing attendance at these meetings, and and Committee meetings.
This information is supplemented at meetings of Board Committees, is set out on page 43. by information specically requested by the Directors from One of these Board meetings was held in North America, time to time.
giving the Board an opportunity to visit operational locations, to receive presentations from executives within the US businesses The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive and to meet around 30 of the Groups most senior US There is a clear division of responsibilities between Dr West management.
Another Board meeting was held in Poland, where as Non-executive Chairman and Mr Atkinson who, as Chief the Board was able to hear about the Groups development and Executive, is the Director ultimately responsible for the running prospects in Eastern Europe, where the Group has a presence in of the Groups business.
several countries, and to visit the site of a ood defence project, The Chairman is responsible for the following matters an important area of growth for the Group in this region.
pertaining to the leadership of the Board: In addition, during the year the Chairman met with the ensuring appropriate Board composition: Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present ensuring effective Board processes: and there was regular informal contact between the Directors setting the Boards agenda: as required.
ensuring that Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in Board and Board Professional development Committee discussions: On appointment, Directors are provided with information about ensuring effective communication with shareholders: and the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its ensuring constructive relations between Executive and decision, the terms of reference and membership of the Board Non-executive Directors.
Committees and the latest financial information about the Group.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the following matters: This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings formulating strategy proposals for the Board: with key senior executives to develop the Directors understanding formulating annual and medium-term plans charting how of the business.
this strategy will be delivered: Throughout their period of ofce, Non-executive Directors apprising the Board of all matters which materially affect are continually updated on the Groups business, its markets, the Group and its performance, including any signicantly corporate social responsibility matters and other changes underperforming business activities: and affecting the Group and the industry in which it operates, leadership of executive management to enable the Groups including changes to the legal and governance environment and businesses to deliver the requirements the obligations on themselves as Directors.
of shareholders: ensuring adequate, well-motivated and incentivised management resources: ensuring succession planning: and ensuring appropriate business processes.
42 Keller Group plc Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued Performance evaluation and re-election Relations with shareholders The Board has a formal process, led by the Chairman, for the Where possible, throughout the year, the Company meets with annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal and makes presentations to institutional investors in the UK, Committees and individual Directors.
Changes to Board Continental Europe and the US.
These include meetings processes which were introduced in response to the first formal following the announcement of the annual and interim results Board evaluation exercise in 2004 are now well embedded, with the Companys largest institutional shareholders on an albeit subject to ongoing review and renement.
The Senior Independent Director is available After two years of undertaking a questionnaire-based on request to meet with shareholders should they have concerns evaluation exercise with the assistance of an independent which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief adviser, last year the Board felt it appropriate to adopt a more Executive or Finance Director have not resolved, or for which open, discussion-based approach.
The main focus of the such contact is inappropriate.
All major shareholders have the discussion was the Boards effectiveness in discharging its opportunity on request to meet new Non-executive Directors primary responsibilities relating to strategy, risk management, on appointment.
On a regular basis, the Board is apprised of financial performance and management succession.
The Board the views of the investment community through the circulation also reviewed the frequency of, and time allocated to, Board of investor perception surveys, brokers research notes and meetings and the provision of information to the Board.
discussion also encompassed a review of the effectiveness of The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by the Board Committees, in place of the questionnaire-based all the Directors and shareholders are invited to ask questions self evaluation exercises carried out in previous years by the during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Notice of the Annual General During the year, the Chairman assessed the performance Meeting, detailing all proposed resolutions, is posted to of the other Directors.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
the Non-executive Directors met without the Chairman, to The Group maintains a corporate website, evaluate his performance against pre-agreed criteria.
co. uk, containing a wide range of information of All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the interest to investors, including presentations to institutional first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and, investors and analysts.
The website is updated with all formal subject to satisfactory performance evaluation, to re-election communications to the investment community immediately thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
following their release through a recognised news service.
These efforts to maintain good communications with our shareholders were recognised in the Best Investor Communications Award, which the Company received at the March 2006 PLC awards ceremony.
Board committees The number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Remuneration Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee meetings 8 meetings 2 meetings 4 meetings 2 Dr J M West Chairman 8 n a n a 2 J R Atkinson Chief Executive 8 n a n a 2 J W G Hind Finance Director 8 n a n a n a R M Rubright Executive Director 7 n a n a n a Dr W Sondermann Executive Director 8 n a n a n a E G Brown Non-executive Director 6 2 4 2 Dr K Bond Non-executive Director 8 2 3 2 P J Lopez Jimenez Non-executive Director 5 n a n a n a K F Payne Non-executive Director 8 2 4 2 R T Scholes Non-executive Director 8 2 4 2 Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of scheduled meetings in the period.
43 Keller Group plc Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued Committee terms of reference Since the start of 2006, the Audit Committee has discharged The terms of reference for the Remuneration, Audit and its responsibilities by: Nomination Committees are kept under regular review reviewing the Groups draft financial statements prior and are available on the Companys website.
to Board approval and reviewing the external Auditors reports thereon: Remuneration Committee reviewing the Groups trading update announcements The Remuneration Committee was chaired throughout the prior to release: year by Mr Brown, an Independent Non-executive Director.
reviewing the independence of the external Auditors The other members during the year, all of whom are also and reviewing and approving the audit fee: Independent Non-executive Directors, are shown on page 35. reviewing the external Auditors strategy for the audit This Committee is responsible for agreeing with the Board of the Groups accounts: the framework and policy for the remuneration of the Groups reviewing an annual report on the Groups system of executive management and for determining the remuneration internal control and its effectiveness and receiving regular packages of the Executive Directors.
The Directors updates on key risk areas of financial control: Remuneration Report is set out on pages 35 to 41. reviewing managements assessment of the key risks facing the Group and the related controls in place to Nomination Committee mitigate those risks: and The Nomination Committee is chaired by Dr West, except reviewing the need for an internal audit function.
if it is dealing with succession to the chairmanship of the In considering the need for an internal audit function, Board.
The other members during the year were Mr Atkinson, the Committee took account of the Groups broad geographic Dr Bond, Mr Brown, Mr Payne and Mr Scholes.
The Nomination spread and cultural diversity and recognised that the Groups Committees role is to monitor the composition and balance key risks lie in its tendering processes and in the operational of the Board and recommend to the Board the appointment controls over the performance of work, which a traditional, of new Directors.
Where appointments to the Board are under finance-focused internal audit function would not be capable consideration, the Committee will normally employ external of addressing effectively.
As in the previous year, the Committee search consultants, except in respect of executive roles for concluded that the structured programme of independent which internal candidates have already been identied.
reviews, combining internal peer and outsourced reviews of The Committee met twice during the year to consider tendering, operational processes and internal financial controls, the Board composition.
It approved the renewal of Dr Bonds was the best way of addressing the Groups key risks and that appointment as a Non-executive Director, which appointment these should be continued and developed.
had been made in October 2003 for an initial period of The Committee also monitors the Groups whistle-blowing three years and was thereafter subject to review by the procedures, ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place Nomination Committee.
for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
Audit Committee Once a year, the Committee evaluates the external Dr Bond, Mr Brown, Mr Payne and Mr Scholes, all of whom Auditors.
This evaluation focuses on: the calibre of the audit rm are Independent Non-executive Directors, were members including reputation, presence in the industry, size, resources of the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee is, and geographic spread : its quality control processes: the quality and was throughout the year, chaired by Mr Payne.
The Board of the team assigned to the audit: the audit scope, fee and audit has satisfied itself that at least one member of the Committee communications: and the governance and independence of the has recent and relevant financial experience.
This Committee meets at least three times a year at which Any work awarded to the external Auditors, other than meetings the Companys Auditors attend.
At least once a year, audit and tax compliance, with a value in excess of 50,000 the Committee meets privately with the external Auditors.
The requires the specic approval of the Committee.
Where the Committee assists the Board in observing its responsibility for Committee perceives that the independence of the Auditors ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate could be compromised, the work will not be awarded to them.
and up-to-date information on its financial position and that the Details of the amounts paid to the external Auditors during Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair the year for audit and other services are set out in the notes reection of this position.
It also reviews annually the Groups to the financial statements on page 55. systems of internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
44 Keller Group plc Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued Compliance with the Code c Management of project risk The Board believes that the Company was compliant with Project risk is managed throughout the life of a contract from the Code throughout the year, save in the following respect.
the bidding stage to completion.
Throughout the year, the Board included four Independent Detailed risk analyses covering technical, operational Non-executive Directors which, as a smaller company, exceeded and financial issues are performed as part of the bidding the requirement of the Code.
However, since the Company process.
Authority limits applicable to the approval of bids entered the FTSE 250 in November 2006, the Company has relate to the risk and total value being bid by Keller, or any joint not met the standard set by the Code for companies which have venture to which Keller is a party.
Any bids involving an unusually been in the FTSE 350 at any time during the year: namely, that high degree of technical or commercial risk, for example at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise those using a new technology or in a territory where we have Independent Non-executive Directors.
As previously stated, not previously worked, must be approved at a senior level whilst under the Code Mr Lopez Jimenez is not deemed to be within the operating company.
independent of management, the Board considers him to be The performance of contracts is monitored by most independent in character and judgement.
Were he also deemed business units on a weekly basis.
In addition, thorough reviews to be independent under the Code, the Company would have are carried out by senior managers on any poorly performing complied with the Code in all respects.
jobs and full cost-to-complete assessments are routinely carried out on extended duration contracts.
It should be noted that the Internal control average time on site is around six weeks but larger contracts The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of may extend over several months.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk d Budgeting and forecasting of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual reasonable and not absolute assurance against material budget approved by the Directors.
This budget includes monthly misstatement or loss.
profit and loss accounts, balance sheets and cash ows.
In The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process addition, detailed quarterly forecasts are prepared for the two for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks subsequent years.
Forecasts for the full year are updated during faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under the year.
review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the e Financial reporting Board and accords with the guidance.
Detailed monthly management accounts are prepared which The principal elements of the internal control framework compare profit and loss accounts, balance sheets, cash ows are as follows: and other information with budget and prior year, and significant variances are investigated.
a Risk identication and evaluation Managers are responsible for the identication and evaluation f Cash control of significant risks applicable to their areas of business together Each business reports its cash position weekly.
Regular with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These cash forecasts are prepared to monitor the Groups shortrisks may be associated with a variety of internal or external and medium-term cash positions and to control immediate sources including engineering, project management and other borrowing requirements.
technical inputs, control breakdowns, disruptions in information systems, markets and competition, natural catastrophe and g Investments and capital expenditure regulatory requirements.
The identied risks, and the controls All significant investment decisions, including capital in place to manage them, are subject to continual reassessment.
expenditure, are referred to the appropriate divisional The Audit Committee reviews this process once a year.
The Chief Executive reports to the Board on significant changes in the business and the external environment that affect h Independent reviews significant risks.
The Finance Director provides the Board with The Group has a structured programme of independent reviews, monthly financial information which includes key performance combining internal peer and outsourced reviews covering and risk indicators.
tendering, operational processes and internal financial controls.
The intention is to conduct an independent review of all material b Authorisation procedures business units at least once every three to four years.
This Documented authorisation procedures provide for an auditable programme is approved and monitored by the Audit Committee, trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across which reviews the findings of each such exercise.
Group operations and provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management i Self-certication and, nally, to the Board.
Once a year, managers are asked to confirm the adequacy of the systems of internal financial and non-financial controls for which they are responsible: and their compliance with Group policies, local laws and regulations: and to report any control weaknesses identied in the past year.
45 Keller Group plc Corporate Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Annual Report and the financial statements records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure and the Group and Company financial statements, in that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act accordance with applicable law and regulations.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and also responsible for preparing a directors report, directors have elected to prepare the Company financial statements in remuneration report and corporate governance statement accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Group financial statements are required by law and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position integrity of the corporate and financial information included and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing provides in relation to such financial statements that references the preparation and dissemination of financial statements in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company financial statements.
46 Keller Group plc Statement of Directors Responsibilities Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Keller Group plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial Basis of audit opinion statements the financial statements of Keller Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related in the financial statements and the part of the Directors notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, is described as having been audited.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the This report is made solely to the Companys members, Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies and adequately disclosed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain state to the Companys members those matters we are required all the information and explanations which we considered to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report to be audited.
Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Opinion IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Parent In our opinion: Company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, Report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2006 and out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 46. of its profit for the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Group financial statements have been properly the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Parent Company financial statements give a true and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Accounting Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report affairs as at 31 December 2006: to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Parent Company financial statements and the part the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Act 1985: and Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The the information given in the Directors Report is consistent information given in the Directors Report includes that specic with the financial statements.
information presented in the Chairmans Statement and the Operating Review that is cross-referred from the Business KPMG Audit Plc Review section of the Directors Report.
Chartered Accountants In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company Registered Auditor has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received 8 Salisbury Square all the information and explanations we require for our audit, London EC4Y 8BB or if information specified by law regarding directors 28 February 2007 remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
47 Keller Group plc Independent Auditors Report Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 Note m m Revenue 3 920.2 731.0 Operating costs 5 831.1 677.9 Operating profit 3 89.1 53.1 Finance income 7 2.3 1.5 Finance costs 8 7.7 5.8 profit before taxation 83.7 48.8 Taxation before one-off tax credit 30.7 19.8 One-off tax credit 3.8 Total taxation 9 26.9 19.8 profit for the period 56.8 29.0 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 55.7 27.3 Minority interests 1.1 1.7 56.8 29.0 Basic earnings per share 11 84.8p 41.8p Earnings per share before one-off tax credit 11 79.0p 41.8p Diluted earnings per share 11 83.7p 41.6p Diluted earnings per share before one-off tax credit 11 78.0p 41.6p Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense for the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 Note m m Foreign exchange translation differences 8.0 8.6 Actuarial losses on dened benefit pension schemes 29 0.1 5.9 Tax on items taken directly to equity 9 0.1 1.8 Net expense income recognised directly in equity 8.0 4.5 profit for the period 56.8 29.0 Total recognised income and expense for the period 24 48.8 33.5 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 47.9 32.1 Minority interests 0.9 1.4 24 48.8 33.5 Consolidated Income Statement 48 Keller Group plc Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2006 2006 2005 Note m m Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 12 57.5 55.7 Property, plant and equipment 13 114.6 90.4 Deferred tax assets 9 7.9 5.7 Other assets 14 8.8 188.8 151.8 Current assets Inventories 16 25.5 24.4 Trade and other receivables 17 221.7 194.6 Cash and cash equivalents 18 25.2 25.9 272.4 244.9 Total assets 3 461.2 396.7 Liabilities Current liabilities Loans and borrowings 22 6.8 7.2 Current tax liabilities 9.4 11.0 Trade and other payables 19 192.4 168.5 208.6 186.7 Non-current liabilities Loans and borrowings 22 57.0 59.6 Employee benets 20 18.8 21.2 Deferred tax liabilities 9 6.2 5.5 Other liabilities 21 11.5 6.5 93.5 92.8 Total liabilities 3 302.1 279.5 Net assets 3 159.1 117.2 Equity Share capital 23, 24 6.6 6.6 Share premium account 24 37.1 36.4 Capital redemption reserve 24 7.6 7.6 Translation reserve 24 4.5 3.3 Retained earnings 24 105.6 57.2 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 24 152.4 111.1 Minority interests 24 6.7 6.1 Total equity 159.1 117.2 These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 28 February 2007.
They were signed on its behalf by: J M West Chairman J W G Hind Finance Director 49 Keller Group plc Consolidated Balance Sheet Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2005 Note m m Cash ows from operating activities Operating profit 89.1 53.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13.4 11.8 Amortisation of intangible assets 2.4 0.1 profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.6 0.1 Other non-cash movements 0.2 0.5 Foreign exchange gains losses 0.2 0.1 Operating cash ows before movements in working capital 104.3 65.5 Movement in long-term liabilities and employee benets 1.7 2.2 Increase decrease in inventories 3.0 1.7 Increase in trade and other receivables 30.6 32.4 Increase in trade and other payables 29.3 40.9 Cash generated from operations 98.3 73.5 Interest paid 6.2 5.1 Income tax paid 30.7 18.8 Net cash inow from operating activities 61.4 49.6 Cash ows from investing activities Interest received 1.1 1.2 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2.0 1.9 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 26.4 7.8 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 29.4 15.7 Acquisition of other non-current assets 2.6 Net cash outow from investing activities 55.3 20.4 Cash ows from nancing activities Proceeds from the issue of share capital 0.8 0.4 New borrowings 6.6 1.0 Repayment of borrowings 3.6 11.0 Payment of finance lease liabilities 2.1 0.1 Dividends paid 9.0 8.2 Net cash outow from nancing activities 7.3 17.9 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 1.2 11.3 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 23.3 11.1 Effect of exchange rate uctuations 1.8 0.9 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 18 20.3 23.3 50 Keller Group plc Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 1 General information e Revenue recognition Keller Group plc the parent is a company incorporated Revenue represents the fair value of work done on construction in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. contracts performed during the year on behalf of customers The consolidated financial statements are presented in or the value of goods and services delivered to customers.
pounds sterling rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, As soon as the outcome of a construction contract can be the functional currency of the parent.
Foreign operations are estimated reliably, contract revenue and expenses are recognised included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2. in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract.
The fair value of work done is based upon estimates of the 2 Principal accounting policies final expected outcome of contracts and the proportion of work a Statement of compliance which has been completed.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared In the nature of the Groups business, the results for the and approved by the directors in accordance with adopted year include adjustments to the outcome of construction International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted contracts, including jointly controlled operations, completed in by the EU.
prior years arising from claims from customers or third parties The Company has elected to prepare its parent company and claims on customers or third parties for variations to the financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these original contract.
are presented on pages 71 to 76.
Prudent provision against claims from customers or third parties is made in the year in which the Group becomes b Basis of preparation aware that a claim may arise.
Income from claims on customers The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost or third parties is not recognised until the outcome can be basis except that derivative financial instruments are stated at reliably measured.
The carrying value of hedged items are adjusted Where it is probable that a loss will arise on a contract, for changes in the fair value of the associated hedging full provision for this loss is made in the year in which the instruments.
Group becomes aware that a loss may arise.
These accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial f Leases statements.
Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms The accounting policies have been applied consistently of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards by subsidiaries.
of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classied as The Company has adopted the amendments to IAS 39 operating leases.
and IFRS 4 in relation to financial guarantee contracts, which Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance apply to periods commencing on or after 1 January 2006. leases are capitalised in the balance sheet at fair value and Where Group companies enter into financial guarantee depreciated in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
contracts to guarantee the indebtedness or obligations of The capital element of the leasing commitment is included other companies within the Group, these are considered as obligations under finance leases.
The rentals payable are to be insurance arrangements, and accounted for as such.
apportioned between interest, which is charged to the income In this respect, the guarantee contract is treated as a contingent statement, and capital, which reduces the outstanding obligation.
liability until such time as it becomes probable that the guarantor Amounts payable under operating leases are charged will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
to contract work in progress or net operating costs on a Accordingly the amendments have not had any impact on straight line basis over the lease term.
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosure was available for g Foreign currencies early application but has not been applied by the Group in these Balance sheet items in foreign currencies are translated into financial statements.
The Group will adopt IFRS 7 for the year sterling at closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Income statements and cash ows of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at average rates of c Basis of consolidation exchange for the year.
The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of the parent and Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of its subsidiary undertakings made up to 31 December each year.
opening net assets and income statements at closing and Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists average rates of exchange respectively are dealt with as when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern movements in equity, along with changes in fair values the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain of associated net investment hedges.
All other exchange benets from its activities.
Where subsidiary undertakings differences are charged to the Income Statement.
were acquired or sold during the year, the accounts include the results for the part of the year for which they were subsidiary undertakings using the acquisition method of accounting.
d Jointly controlled operations From time to time the Group undertakes contracts jointly with other parties.
These fall under the category of jointly controlled operations as dened by IAS 31.
The Group accounts for its own share of sales, profits, assets, liabilities and cash ows measured according to the terms of the agreements covering the jointly controlled operations.
51 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued k Property, plant and equipment The exchange rates used in respect of principal currencies are: Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
2006 2005 US dollar: average for period 1.84 1.82 l Depreciation US dollar: period end 1.96 1.72 Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
Euro: average for period 1.47 1.46 Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the Euro: period end 1.49 1.45 estimated residual value of property, plant and equipment by Australian dollar: average for period 2.45 2.39 reference to their estimated useful lives using the straight line Australian dollar: period end 2.49 2.36 method.
The rates of depreciation used are: h Interest income and expense Buildings 2% All interest income and expense is recognised in profit or loss Long life plant and equipment 8% in the period in which it is incurred.
Short life plant and equipment 12% Motor vehicles 25% i Employee benefit costs Computers 33% The Group operates a number of dened benefit pension arrangements, and also makes payments into dened The cost of leased properties is depreciated by equal instalments contribution schemes for employees.
over the period of the lease or 50 years, whichever is the shorter.
The liability in respect of dened benefit schemes is the present value of the dened benefit obligations at the balance m Goodwill and other intangible assets sheet date, calculated using the projected unit credit method, Goodwill less the fair value of the schemes assets.
The Group has Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the difference taken the option to apply the requirements of IAS 19 revised, between the fair value of the purchase consideration and recognising the current service cost and interest on scheme the fair value of the identiable net assets of the subsidiary liabilities in the Income Statement, and actuarial gains and undertaking at the date of acquisition, is capitalised as an losses in full in the period in which they occur in equity.
Payments to dened contribution schemes are accounted Goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, for on an accruals basis.
which represents the amount recorded under previous UK GAAP at 1 January 2004. j Taxation In accordance with IFRS 3, goodwill has been frozen at The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable its net book value as at 1 January 2004 and is not amortised.
and the deferred tax charge.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually and whenever Provision is made for current tax on taxable profits for there is an indication that the goodwill may be impaired, with any the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the impairment losses being recognised immediately in the income Income Statement because it excludes items of income or statement.
Goodwill arising prior to 1 January 1998 was taken expenses that are taxable or deductible in other years and it directly to equity in the year in which it arose.
Such goodwill has further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
not been reinstated on the Balance Sheet.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates The fair value of net assets in excess of the fair value of that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance purchase consideration is credited to the Income Statement sheet date.
in the year of acquisition.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial Other intangible assets statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the Intangible assets, other than goodwill, include purchased computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using licences, patents and trademarks.
Intangible assets are the balance sheet liability method.
capitalised at cost and charged to the Income Statement Full provision is made for deferred tax on temporary on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives from differences in line with IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax the date that they are available for use and are stated at cost assets are recognised when it is considered likely that they less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
will be utilised against future taxable profits.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected are accounted for initially at fair value.
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income n Impairment of tangible and intangible assets Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited excluding goodwill directly to equity, in which case the related deferred tax is also At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying dealt with in equity.
amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
52 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued t Share-based payment o Capital work in progress Charges for employee services received in exchange for shareCapital work in progress represents expenditure on property, based payment have been made for all options granted after plant and equipment in the course of construction.
Transfers 7 November 2002, that had not vested by 1 January 2005, are made to other property, plant and equipment categories in accordance with IFRS 2. when the assets are available for use.
Options granted under the Groups employee share schemes are equity settled.
The fair value of such options has p Inventories been calculated using a stochastic model, based upon publicly Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and estimated available market data, and is charged to the Income Statement net realisable value with due allowance being made for obsolete over the performance period.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, u Segmental reporting direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
is engaged either in providing products or services business segment, or in providing products or services within a particular q Financial instruments economic environment geographical segment, and which Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the of other segments.
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for in v Dividends accordance with IAS 39 and recognised at fair value.
Interim dividends are recorded in the Groups financial The Group uses currency and interest rate swaps to statements when paid.
Final dividends are recorded in the manage financial risk.
Interest charges and financial liabilities Groups financial statements in the period in which they receive are stated after taking account of these swaps.
The Group uses these swaps and other hedges to mitigate exposures to both foreign currency and interest rates.
w Accounting estimates and judgements Hedges are accounted for as follows: The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with Cash ow hedges: The effective part of any gain or loss IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in the hedging assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The immediately in the Income Statement.
The associated estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in experience and various other factors that are believed to be the Income Statement in the same period or periods during reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of the assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged and on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are any gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the immediately in the Income Statement.
revision affects only that and prior periods, or in the period Net investment hedges: The effective portion of the change of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised directly current and future periods.
Any ineffectiveness is recognised The key estimates and judgements in drawing up the immediately in the Income Statement.
Groups consolidated accounts are in connection with construction contracts in progress, claims on construction r Trade receivables contracts, the valuation of pension liabilities and goodwill Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are carried impairment tests.
at amortised cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for The Groups approach to estimates and judgements estimated irrecoverable amounts.
relating to construction contracts and claims is set out in e above.
s Trade payables Note 29 contains the principal assumptions underlying Trade payables are not interest bearing and are carried at the valuation of the Groups dened benefit liabilities.
assumptions were set on the advice of the relevant schemes actuaries having regard to current market conditions, past history and factors specic to the schemes.
Goodwill has been assessed for impairment by comparing its carrying value with the present value of the discounted cash ows expected to be generated by the relevant cash generating units.
53 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 3 Segmental analysis Segment information is presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments, which are based on the Groups management and internal reporting structure.
The Group considers that it has only one business activity: construction.
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 Depreciation Depreciation Capital and Capital and additions amortisation Goodwill additions amortisation Goodwill m m m m m m United Kingdom 6.3 1.2 5.0 1.4 1.0 0.4 North America 14.5 7.1 39.4 6.5 4.9 42.0 Continental Europe & Overseas 12.8 6.1 11.9 6.6 4.8 13.1 Australia 2.3 1.4 1.3 1.2 35.9 15.8 56.3 15.8 11.9 55.5 United Kingdom goodwill includes 4.6m 2005: Nil in respect of Phi Group Limited.
North America goodwill includes 32.6m 2005: 37.2m in respect of Suncoast Post-Tension L. P. and Continental Europe & Overseas goodwill includes 6.0m 2005: 6.1m in respect of Keller-Terra S. L. 54 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 4 Acquisition of subsidiaries Phi Piling Contractors Anderson Total Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount adjustment Fair value m m m m m m m m m Net assets acquired Non-current assets 0.2 1.0 2.7 9.8 3.7 8.6 6.6 12.8 19.4 Current assets 3.0 3.0 6.2 6.2 10.9 10.3 20.1 0.6 19.5 Current liabilities 2.1 2.1 4.8 4.8 4.6 4.6 11.5 11.5 Non-current liabilities 1.5 1.3 1.5 1.5 1.3 2.8 1.1 1.9 2.6 9.9 10.0 12.8 13.7 10.9 24.6 Goodwill 4.6 1.0 3.6 Total consideration 6.5 9.9 11.8 28.2 satisfied by: Initial cash consideration 5.5 8.7 11.8 26.0 Contingent consideration 1.0 1.2 2.2 6.5 9.9 11.8 28.2 On 6 April 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Phi Group Limited Phi for an initial amount of 5.5m net of cash acquired of 0.7m, and an estimated deferred consideration of 1.0m based on future profits.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Phi is attributable to the knowledge and expertise of Phis assembled workforce and the operating synergies that arise from the combination.
Included in non-current assets is an intangible asset of 0.8m representing the value of acquired trade marks and patents.
In the nine months to 31 December 2006 Phi contributed 0.7m to the net profit of the Group.
On 11 August 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Kalbend Pty Limited, renamed Piling Contractors Pty Ltd Piling Contractors, for an initial amount of AUD21.4m 8.7m net of cash acquired of AUD4.5m 1.8m, and an estimated deferred consideration of AUD3.0m 1.2m based on future profits.
The fair value of non-current assets acquired includes an uplift of AUD17.5m 7.1m in respect of property, plant and equipment.
In the period to 31 December 2006 Piling Contractors contributed 1.7m to the net profit of the Group.
On 1 October the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of SJA Inc. Anderson for an initial amount of USD21.7m 11.8m including the assumption of debt of USD6.6m 3.6m.
The fair value of non-current assets acquired includes an uplift of USD6.1m 3.3m in respect of property, plant and equipment and USD2.8m 1.5m in respect of Andersons backlog at the date of acquisition.
The deferred tax effect of these adjustments is included in non-current liabilities.
In the three months to 31 December 2006 Anderson contributed 0.6m to the net profit of the Group.
Had all three acquisitions taken place on 1 January 2006 total Group revenue would have been 956.3m and total net profit would have been 59.9m.
All three companies acquired are engaged in the principal activities of the Group, as dened in the Directors Report.
On 30 September 2005 the Group acquired the business and assets of G. Donaldson Construction Company Inc. Donaldson for a initial amount of USD10.6m 5.8m including the assumption of debt and an estimated deferred consideration of USD2.5m 1.4m based on future profits.
During 2006 the estimates of the amount of deferred consideration payable, together with the fair values of the assets acquired, were revised giving rise to additional goodwill of 2.6m and additional other intangible assets of 1.1m.
5 Operating costs 2006 2005 Note m m Raw materials and consumables 310.0 251.9 Staff costs 6 206.3 173.8 Other operating charges 299.0 240.3 Amortisation of intangibles 2.4 0.1 Depreciation: Owned property, plant and equipment 12.9 11.4 Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases 0.5 0.4 831.1 677.9 Other operating charges include: Net foreign exchange gains losses 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys Auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys Auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.6 Tax services 0.3 0.2 55 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 6 Employees The aggregate staff costs of the Group were: 2006 2005 m m Wages and salaries 179.5 149.3 Social security costs 22.5 20.4 Other pension costs 4.3 4.1 206.3 173.8 These costs include Directors remuneration.
Disclosures on Directors remuneration, required by the Companies Act 1985 and those specified for audit by the Financial Services Authority are on pages 35 to 41 within the Directors Remuneration Report and form part of these financial statements.
The average number of persons, including Directors, employed by the Group during the year was: 2006 2005 Number Number United Kingdom 744 673 North America 2,665 2,326 Continental Europe & Overseas 1,749 1,599 Australia 540 512 5,698 5,110 7 Finance income 2006 2005 m m Bank and other interest receivable 1.0 0.4 Expected return on pension scheme assets 1.3 1.1 2.3 1.5 8 Finance costs 2006 2005 m m Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 1.0 1.2 Interest payable on other loans 3.9 2.3 Interest payable on finance leases 0.1 0.3 Pension interest cost 1.8 1.8 Other interest costs 0.9 0.2 7.7 5.8 9 Taxation 2006 2005 m m Current tax expense Current year 29.7 23.8 Prior years 0.1 0.1 Total current tax 29.6 23.9 Deferred tax expense Current year 0.9 3.6 Prior years: One-off tax credit 3.8 Other 0.2 0.5 Total deferred tax 2.7 4.1 26.9 19.8 56 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 9 Taxation continued UK corporation tax is calculated at 30% 2005: 30% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The effective tax rate can be reconciled to the UK corporation tax rate of 30% as follows: 2006 2005 % % UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2005: 30% 30 30 Tax charged overseas at rates other than 30% 3 6 Tax losses carried forward 4 Permanent timing differences 3 2 Adjustment to tax charge in respect of previous periods 1 1 Effective tax rate before one-off tax credit 37 41 One-off tax credit in respect of previous periods 5 Effective tax rate 32 41 The one-off tax credit arose following an intra-group financial restructuring during the year, as a result of which it is now anticipated that prior year UK tax losses can be utilised against future UK taxable profits.
Consequently, the Group has recognised a 3.8m deferred tax asset in respect of these losses, which has resulted in a one-off tax credit in the 2006 Income Statement.
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting period.
Unused Accelerated Retirement Other tax capital benefit timing losses allowances obligations differences Total m m m m m At 1 January 2005 11.0 3.1 2.9 5.0 Credit charge to the Income Statement 1.2 0.9 3.8 4.1 Credit to equity 1.8 1.8 Exchange differences 1.4 0.3 0.4 0.7 At 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2006 11.2 4.3 7.1 0.2 Credit charge to the Income Statement 3.7 0.2 1.5 0.7 2.7 Credit to equity 0.1 0.1 Acquired with new subsidiaries 2.4 1.0 1.4 Reclassication 0.4 0.4 Exchange differences 1.4 0.1 1.2 0.1 At 31 December 2006 4.1 12.4 2.8 7.2 1.7 The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting: 2006 2005 m m Deferred tax liabilities 6.2 5.5 Deferred tax assets 7.9 5.7 1.7 0.2 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 4.2m 2005: 14.4m available for offset against future profits, on which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
10 Dividends paid Ordinary dividends on equity shares: 2006 2005 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 4.2p 2005: 3.8p per share 2.8 2.5 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 8.2p 2004: 7.3p per share 5.3 4.8 8.1 7.3 The Directors have proposed a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 7.5m, representing 11.4p 2005: 8.2p per share.
The proposed dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 21 June 2007 and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
57 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 11 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows: 2006 2006 2005 2005 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted m m m m Earnings after tax and minority interests, being net profits attributable to equity holders of the parent 55.7 55.7 27.3 27.3 No of No of No of No of shares shares shares shares millions millions millions millions Weighted average of ordinary shares in issue during the year 65.6 65.6 65.3 65.3 Add: weighted average of shares under option during the year 1.6 1.5 Add: weighted average of own shares held 0.1 0.1 Subtract: number of shares assumed issued at fair value during the year 0.8 1.4 Adjusted weighted average of ordinary shares in issue 65.6 66.5 65.3 65.5 2006 2006 2005 2005 Pence Pence Pence Pence Earnings per share 84.8 83.7 41.8 41.6 Earnings per share before the one-off tax credit of 79.0p 2005: 41.8p is calculated based on earnings of 55.7m 2005: 27.3m less the one-off tax credit of 3.8m 2005: Nil and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 65.6 million 2005: 65.3 million.
Diluted earnings per share before the one-off tax credit of 78.0p 2005: 41.6p is calculated based on earnings of 55.7m 2005: 27.3m less the one-off tax credit of 3.8m 2005: Nil and the adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 66.5 million 2005: 65.5 million.
12 Intangible assets Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2005 51.5 0.8 52.3 Exchange differences 4.0 4.0 At 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2006 55.5 0.8 56.3 Acquired with subsidiaries 3.4 3.4 Additions 6.3 6.3 Exchange differences 5.5 0.1 5.6 At 31 December 2006 56.3 4.1 60.4 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2005 0.5 0.5 Amortisation charge for the year 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2006 0.6 0.6 Amortisation charge for the year 2.4 2.4 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2006 2.9 2.9 Carrying amount At 31 December 2006 56.3 1.2 57.5 At 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2006 55.5 0.2 55.7 At 1 January 2005 51.5 0.3 51.8 The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined by reference to the discounted forecast future cash ows of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
58 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 13 Property, plant and equipment Plant, Capital Land and machinery work in buildings and vehicles progress Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2005 24.0 132.6 0.6 157.2 Additions 0.4 13.8 1.6 15.8 Acquired with subsidiary 3.4 3.4 Disposals 0.3 4.5 4.8 Reclassication 0.4 1.1 1.5 Exchange differences 0.7 5.2 5.9 At 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2006 25.2 151.6 0.7 177.5 Additions 1.3 27.2 1.1 29.6 Acquired with subsidiaries 0.3 16.8 17.1 Disposals 5.0 5.0 Reclassication 0.4 0.4 Exchange differences 1.4 11.3 0.1 12.8 At 31 December 2006 25.4 179.7 1.3 206.4 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2005 3.2 73.1 76.3 Charge for the year 0.4 11.4 11.8 Disposals 3.0 3.0 Exchange differences 2.0 2.0 At 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2006 3.6 83.5 87.1 Charge for the year 0.5 12.9 13.4 Disposals 3.6 3.6 Exchange differences 0.2 4.9 5.1 At 31 December 2006 3.9 87.9 91.8 Carrying amount At 31 December 2006 21.5 91.8 1.3 114.6 At 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2006 21.6 68.1 0.7 90.4 At 1 January 2005 20.8 59.5 0.6 80.9 The net book value of property, plant and equipment includes the following amounts in respect of assets held under finance leases: 2006 2005 m m Plant, machinery and vehicles 2.6 2.0 14 Other non-current assets 2006 2005 m m Fair value of derivative financial instruments 6.3 Other assets 2.5 8.8 59 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 15 Investments The Companys principal operating subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2006 were as follows: Country Country Subsidiary undertaking of incorporation Subsidiary undertaking of incorporation Lime Column Method AB Sweden Keller Limited UK Makers UK Limited UK Keller Polska Sp.
z o. o. Poland Keller Fondazioni S. r. l. Italy Phi Group Limited UK Hayward Baker Inc USA Keller Malaysia Sdn.
Bhd Malaysia Keller Foundations South East Asia Pte Ltd Singapore Case Foundation Company USA Case Atlantic Company USA Keller Turki Company Ltd Saudi Arabia Geotechnical Engineering Contractor Ltd Egypt McKinney Drilling Company USA Suncoast Post-Tension L. P. USA Frankipile Australia Pty Ltd Australia Vibro-Pile Aust.
Pty Ltd Australia SJA Inc USA Keller Grundbau GmbH Germany Piling Contractors Pty Ltd Australia Wannenwetsch GmbH Keller Fondations Spciales SAS France Keller Grundbau Ges.
mbH Austria  Germany Keller-Terra S. L. Spain Each of the above subsidiary undertakings is directly or indirectly wholly owned by the Company apart from Keller-Terra S. L. which is 51% owned by the Company, Wannenwetsch GmbH  which is 84% owned by Keller Holding GmbH and Keller Turki Company Ltd which is 65% owned by Keller Grundbau GmbH.
Keller Limited, Phi Group Limited and Keller-Terra S. L. are held directly by the Company.
All other shareholdings are held by intermediate subsidiary undertakings.
All companies are engaged in the principal activities of the Group, as dened in the Directors Report.
16 Inventories 2006 2005 m m Raw materials and consumables 11.0 13.2 Work in progress 1.1 0.5 Finished goods 13.4 10.7 25.5 24.4 17 Trade and other receivables 2006 2005 m m Trade receivables 197.4 174.2 Construction work in progress 12.2 9.8 Other receivables 7.0 5.6 Prepayments 5.1 5.0 221.7 194.6 2006 2005 m m Contracts in progress at balance sheet date: Aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognised profits less recognised losses to date 194.2 127.8 Retentions withheld by customers 14.5 2.7 60 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 18 Cash and cash equivalents 2006 2005 m m Bank balances 25.1 25.9 Short-term deposits 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet 25.2 25.9 Bank overdrafts 4.9 2.6 Cash and cash equivalents in the cash ow statement 20.3 23.3 19 Trade and other payables 2006 2005 m m Trade payables 103.4 91.4 Other taxes and social security payable 10.7 10.6 Other payables 59.5 47.6 Accruals 18.8 18.9 192.4 168.5 20 Employee benets 2006 2005 Note m m Keller Group Pension Scheme UK 29 6.8 11.9 Other retirement benefit schemes 29 8.9 8.6 Other employee benets 3.1 0.7 18.8 21.2 21 Other non-current liabilities 2006 2005 m m Fair value of derivative financial instruments 3.0 0.4 Other liabilities 8.5 6.1 11.5 6.5 61 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 22 Financial instruments Hedging Exposure to credit, interest rate and currency risks arise in the In October 2004 USD100m was raised through a private normal course of the Groups business.
Derivative financial placement with US institutions.
The proceeds of the issue instruments are used to hedge exposure to uctuations in foreign of USD30m 5.05% notes due 2011 and USD70m 5.48% exchange and interest rates.
notes due 2014 were used to renance existing debt.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments nor The US private placement loans are accounted for on does it engage in speculative derivative transactions.
an amortised cost basis, adjusted for the impact of hedge accounting as described below, and retranslated at the Credit risk spot exchange rate at each period end.
The carrying value The Groups principal financial assets are bank and cash of the private placement liabilities at 31 December 2006 was balances and trade and other receivables.
the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to The USD100m xed rate private placement liabilities were financial assets.
immediately swapped into oating rates, USD75m by means The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to amounts of US dollar interest rate swaps and USD25m through a dollar deposited with banks and other financial institutions.
This risk is euro cross-currency and interest rate swap together, the 2004 managed by limiting the aggregate amount of exposure to any swaps.
The 2004 swaps have the same maturity as the such institution by reference to their credit rating and by regular private placement loans.
The fair value of the 2004 swaps at review of these ratings.
The possibility of material loss in this way 31 December 2006 represented a liability of 3.0m 2005: 0.4m is considered unlikely.
included in other non-current liabilities.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, The USD75m 2004 interest rate swaps have been with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties designated as fair value hedges of the Groups exposure and customers.
to changes in the fair value of USD75m of the US private placement loans arising from changes in US interest rates.
Currency risk The USD leg of the 2004 cross currency interest rate swap has The Group faces currency risk principally on its net assets, been designated a fair value hedge of the Groups exposure to of which a large proportion is in currencies other than sterling.
changes in fair value of USD25m of the private placement loans In order to reduce the impact that retranslation of these assets arising from changes in sterling dollar exchange rates and US might have on the consolidated balance sheet, the Group interest rates.
The effective portion of the change in fair value manages its borrowings, to the extent practical, to hedge its of these hedging instruments during the year, a loss of 3.0m foreign currency assets.
This hedging is typically carried out by 2005: 0.4m gain, has been taken to the Income Statement borrowings in the same currency as the assets being hedged.
along with the equal and opposite movement in fair value of the The Groups currency transaction risk is mainly limited corresponding hedged items.
to repatriation of profits and intra-Group loan repayments.
USD75m of the private placement liabilities, together Exposure to this risk is managed through forward contracts.
with the euro leg of the 2004 cross currency interest rate swap, The Groups foreign exchange cover is executed primarily are designated as net investment hedges of the Groups dollar in the UK.
The effective portion of the At 31 December 2006 there were no material forward change in fair value of these hedging instruments during the exchange contracts outstanding 2005: none.
year, a gain of 5.7m 2005: 4.2m loss, has been taken to the translation reserve through the statement of recognised income Interest rate risk and expense along with the foreign exchange gains and losses Interest rate risk is managed by mixing xed and oating rate arising on retranslation of the dollarand euro-denominated borrowings depending upon the purpose of the nancing.
In June 2006 USD185m of oating rate intra-group debt was swapped into sterling oating rates by means of dollar sterling cross currency interest rate swaps the 2006 swaps.
The 2006 swaps have the same maturity as the intragroup debt and have been designated as cash ow hedges.
The fair value of the 2006 swaps at 31 December 2006 represented an asset of 6.3m included in other non-current assets.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the 2006 swaps, a gain of 6.3m, has been taken to the hedging reserve and fully recycled through the Income Statement during the year.
All hedging relationships remained effective during the year.
62 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 22 Financial instruments continued Effective interest rates and repricing analysis In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates at the balance sheet date and the periods in which they reprice.
2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 Effective Due within Due within Due after more Total nonDue within interest rate 12 years 25 years than 5 years current liability 1 year Total % m mmm m m Bank overdrafts 6.4 4.9 4.9 Bank loans 5.5 0.8 5.5 6.3 0.8 7.1 Other loans 6.2 14.7 34.3 49.0 49.0 Obligations under finance leases 3.4 0.9 0.8 1.7 1.1 2.8 Total loans and borrowings 1.7 21.0 34.3 57.0 6.8 63.8 Bank balances 3.3 25.1 25.1 Short-term deposits 2.5 0.1 0.1 Net debt 1.7 21.0 34.3 57.0 18.4 38.6 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 Effective Due within Due within Due after more Total nonDue within interest rate 12 years 25 years than 5 years current liability 1 year Total % m mmm m m Bank overdrafts 6.4 2.6 2.6 Bank loans 6.5 1.0 1.0 0.8 1.8 Loan notes 5.0 2.8 2.8 Other loans 4.9 57.2 57.2 57.2 Obligations under finance leases 5.6 0.6 0.6 0.2 1.4 1.0 2.4 Total loans and borrowings 1.6 0.6 57.4 59.6 7.2 66.8 Bank balances 2.2 25.9 25.9 Net debt 1.6 0.6 57.4 59.6 18.7 40.9 These include assets liabilities bearing interest at a xed rate.
The Group had unutilised committed banking facilities of 60.2m at 31 December 2006 2005: 62.2m.
This mainly comprises the unutilised portion of the Groups 80m revolving credit facility which expires on 20 June 2011.
In addition, the Group had unutilised uncommitted facilities totalling 15.1m at 31 December 2006 2005: 22.3m.
All of these borrowing facilities are unsecured.
Future obligations under finance leases totalled 3.4m 2005: 3.2m, including interest of 0.6m 2005: 0.8m.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities are not materially different from their carrying values.
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments: Derivatives The fair value of interest rate and cross currency swaps is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash ows.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash ows.
Trade and other payables and receivables and construction work in progress For payables and receivables with a remaining life of one year or less, the carrying amount is deemed to reect the fair value.
All other payables and receivables are discounted to determine their fair value.
63 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 22 Financial instruments continued Interest rate and currency prole The prole of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities after taking account of swaps was as follows: 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 Sterling USD Euro AUD Total Weighted average xed debt interest rate 7.0% 2.5% n a Weighted average xed debt period years 10.0 5.0 n a 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m Fixed rate financial liabilities 0.5 2.3 2.8 Floating rate financial liabilities 3.4 36.3 14.1 7.2 61.0 Financial assets 0.5 9.1 13.1 2.5 25.2 Net debt 3.4 27.2 3.3 4.7 38.6 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 Sterling USD Euro AUD Total Weighted average xed debt interest rate 7.0% 8.2% 2.5% n a Weighted average xed debt period years 10.0 10.0 3.5 n a 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 m m m m m Fixed rate financial liabilities 0.5 0.1 1.8 2.4 Floating rate financial liabilities 2.5 42.8 17.2 1.9 64.4 Financial assets 2.2 10.0 12.1 1.6 25.9 Net debt 0.8 32.9 6.9 0.3 40.9 Sensitivity analysis At 31 December 2006, it is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in interest rates would decrease the Groups profit before taxation by approximately 0.5m 2005: 0.5m.
The impact of interest rate swaps has been included in this calculation.
It is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in the value of sterling against other principal foreign currencies would have decreased the Groups profit before taxation by approximately 0.8m for the year ended 31 December 2006 2005: 0.5m.
This sensitivity relates to the impact of retranslation of foreign earnings only.
The impact on the Groups earnings of currency transaction exchange risk is not significant.
23 Share capital 2006 2005 m m Authorised Equity share capital: 80,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each 2005: 80,000,000 8.0 8.0 Allotted, called up and fully paid Equity share capital: 65,837,074 ordinary shares of 10p each 2005: 65,520,735 6.6 6.6 The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carries no rights to xed income.
All shares issued in the year related to share options that were exercised.
64 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 24 Capital and reserves Attributable Share Capital to equity Share premium redemption Translation Retained holders of Minority Total capital account reserve reserve earnings the parent interest equity m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2005 6.6 36.0 7.6 5.6 40.8 85.4 5.6 91.0 Total recognised income and expense 8.9 23.2 32.1 1.4 33.5 Dividends to shareholders 7.3 7.3 0.9 8.2 Share-based payments 0.5 0.5 0.5 Share capital issued 0.4 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2006 6.6 36.4 7.6 3.3 57.2 111.1 6.1 117.2 Total recognised income and expense 7.8 55.7 47.9 0.9 48.8 Dividends to shareholders 8.1 8.1 0.9 9.0 Share-based payments 0.8 0.8 0.8 Share capital issued 0.7 0.7 0.6 1.3 At 31 December 2006 6.6 37.1 7.6 4.5 105.6 152.4 6.7 159.1 The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and the translation of borrowings that hedge those operations.
The capital redemption reserve is a non-distributable reserve created when the Companys shares were redeemed or purchased other than from the proceeds of a fresh issue of shares.
Although the Group has cash ow hedges, the fair value movement during the year on the hedging instruments, a gain of 6.3m, has been fully recycled through the Income Statement along with the corresponding loss arising on the hedged item.
The opening and closing balance on the hedging reserve is therefore Nil.
25 Related party transactions Transactions between the parent, jointly controlled operations and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
During the year the Group undertook various contracts with a total value of 13.6m 2005: 8.5m for GTCEISU Construccin, S. A. a connected person of Mr Lopez Jimenez, a Director of the Company.
An amount of 8.8m 2005: 5.7m is included in trade and other receivables in respect of amounts outstanding at 31 December 2006.
All amounts outstanding from related parties are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel and related parties of the Group, is set out in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 41.
26 Operating lease arrangements At the balance sheet date the Groups total commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, were as follows: 2006 2005 2006 Plant, 2005 Plant, Land and machinery 2006 Land and machinery 2005 buildings and vehicles Total buildings and vehicles Total m m m m m m Payable within one year 4.7 5.3 10.0 4.1 4.5 8.6 Payable between one and five years inclusive 10.4 6.0 16.4 7.8 4.8 12.6 Payable in over five years 5.2 5.2 5.3 5.3 20.3 11.3 31.6 17.2 9.3 26.5 Operating lease payments in respect of land and buildings represent rental payable by the Group for certain of its properties.
65 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 27 Contingent liabilities The Group has entered into bonds in the normal course of business relating to contract tenders, advance payments, contract performance and the release of retentions.
The Company and certain of its subsidiary undertakings have entered into a number of guarantees, the effects of which are to guarantee or cross guarantee certain bank borrowings of other Group companies.
There are claims arising in the normal course of trading, which involve or may involve litigation.
All amounts which the Directors consider will become payable on account of such claims have been fully accrued in these accounts.
At 31 December 2006 the Group had discounted bills of exchange and standby letters of credit outstanding totalling 20.6m 2005: 17.9m.
28 Share-based payments The Group has three share option plans, the 1994 Scheme, the 2001 Plans and the Performance Share Plan.
Details of the terms and conditions of the current share option plans are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 41.
The recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have not been applied to options granted before 7 November 2002 in accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1 and IFRS 2.
Under the 1994 Scheme, the option price is equal to the share price on the date of grant.
Under the 2001 Plans, the option price is the average of the share price for the three days preceding the date of grant.
Under the Performance Share Plan, all awards have an exercise price of 1 per exercise.
Options outstanding are as follows: Performance 1994 Scheme 2001 Plans Share Plan Weighted Weighted Weighted average average Performance average 1994 Scheme exercise 2001 Plans exercise Share Plan exercise Options price Options price Options price Outstanding at 1 January 2005 5,000 102p 1,528,000 276.3p 296,000 Granted during 2005 330,500 Forfeited during 2005 611,000 326.2p 5,000 Exercised during 2005 5,000 102p 147,000 231.5p Outstanding at 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2006 770,000 245.5p 621,500 Granted during 2006 338,750 Forfeited during 2006 8,000 251.0p Exercised during 2006 316,339 241.2p Outstanding at 31 December 2006 445,661 245.6p 960,250 Exercisable at 1 January 2005 Exercisable at 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2006 202,500 231.5p Exercisable at 31 December 2006 445,661 245.6p Exercises occurred throughout the year.
The average share price during the year was 597p.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on the stochastic model.
The contractual life of the option is used as an input into this model, with expectations of early exercise being incorporated into the model.
The inputs into the stochastic model are as follows: 2006 2005 Performance Performance Share Plan Share Plan Weighted average share price 445.0p 296.5p Weighted average exercise price 0.0p 0.0p Expected volatility 28.50% 29.70% Expected life 3 years 3 years Risk free rate 4.40% 4.27% Expected dividend yield 2.70% 3.70% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous six years, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The Group recognised total expenses included in operating costs of 0.8m 2005: 0.5m related to equity-settled, sharebased payment transactions.
66 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 29 Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates several pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
In the UK, the Group operates the Keller Group Pension Scheme, a dened benefit scheme, which has been closed to new members since 1999 and was closed to all future benefit accrual curtailment with effect from 31 March 2006.
Under the scheme employees are normally entitled to retirement benets on attainment of a retirement age of 65.
The Group has two UK dened contribution retirement benefit schemes.
There were no contributions outstanding in respect of these schemes at 31 December 2006 2005: Nil.
The total UK dened contribution pension charge for the year was 0.3m 2005: 0.2m.
In Germany and Austria, the Group has dened benefit retirement obligations for employees who joined the Group prior to 1 January 1998.
These obligations are funded on the Groups balance sheet.
The Group operates a dened contribution scheme for employees in the US, where the Group is required to match employee contributions up to a certain level in accordance with the scheme rules.
The total US pension charge for the year was 1.9m 2005: 1.6m.
In Australia there is a dened contribution scheme where the Group is required to ensure that a prescribed level of superannuation support of an employees notional base earnings is made.
This prescribed level of support is currently 9% 2005: 9%.
The total Australian pension charge for the year was 1.2m 2005: 0.8m.
Details of the Groups dened benefit schemes are as follows: The Keller The Keller German and German and Group Pension Group Pension Austrian Austrian Scheme UK Scheme UK Schemes Schemes Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Present value of the scheme liabilities 32.5 31.7 8.9 8.6 Present value of assets 25.7 19.8 deficit in the scheme 6.8 11.9 8.9 8.6 The value of the scheme liabilities has been determined by the actuary using the following assumptions: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 2006 2005 % % % % Discount rate 5.2 4.9 4.5 4.3 Expected return on scheme assets 6.3 6.1 n a n a Rate of increase in salaries n a 2.8 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.1 2.8 1.5 1.0 Rate of increase in pensions in deferment 3.1 2.8 1.5 1.0 Rate of ination 3.1 2.8 1.5 1.0 Mortality table: Pensioners PA92 C2000 PA92 C2000 Non-pensioners PA92 C2020 PA92 C2020 Richttafeln 2005 G. The assets of the schemes were as follows: Value as at Value as at Value as at Value as at 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Equities 15.7 10.7 n a n a Bonds 10.0 9.1 n a n a Total present value of assets 25.7 19.8 n a n a 67 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 29 Retirement benefit schemes continued The Keller The Keller German and German and Group Pension Group Pension Austrian Austrian Scheme Scheme Schemes Schemes Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Changes in scheme liabilities Opening balance 31.7 25.0 8.6 8.4 Current service cost 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.1 Member contributions 0.1 0.3 Interest cost 1.5 1.3 0.3 0.5 Curtailment 1.7 Past service cost 0.2 Benets paid 1.0 0.7 0.4 0.7 Exchange differences 0.2 0.3 Actuarial gains losses 0.1 7.1 0.4 0.6 Closing balance 32.5 31.7 8.9 8.6 Changes in scheme assets Opening balance 19.8 16.8 Expected return on scheme assets 1.3 1.1 Employer contributions 5.3 0.5 Member contributions 0.1 0.3 Benets paid 1.0 0.7 Actuarial gains 0.2 1.8 Closing balance 25.7 19.8 Actual return on scheme assets 1.5 2.9 Statement of recognised income and expense SORIE Actuarial gains from assets 0.2 1.8 Actuarial gains losses from liabilities 0.1 7.1 0.4 0.6 Net actuarial gains losses 0.3 5.3 0.4 0.6 Cumulative actuarial losses 7.2 7.5 1.5 1.1 Expense income recognised in the income statement Current service cost 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.1 Curtailment 1.7 Past service cost 0.2 Operating costs 0.3 1.3 0.2 0.1 Interest cost 1.5 1.3 0.3 0.5 Expected return on assets 1.3 1.1 Expense income recognised in the income statement 0.5 1.1 0.5 0.6 Movements in the balance sheet liability Net liability at start of year 11.9 8.2 8.6 8.4 Expense income recognised in profit or loss 0.5 1.1 0.5 0.6 Contributions 5.3 0.5 Benets paid 0.4 0.7 Exchange differences 0.2 0.3 Actuarial gain loss recognised in SORIE 0.3 5.3 0.4 0.6 Net liability at end of year 6.8 11.9 8.9 8.6 The expected return on the average value of the assets over the year was calculated using the long-term average rate of return expected over the remaining term of the schemes liabilities.
The contributions expected to be paid during 2007 are 1.2m.
68 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 29 Retirement benefit schemes continued The history of experience adjustments on scheme assets and liabilities for all the Groups dened benefit pension schemes is as follows: 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m Present value of dened benefit obligations 41.4 40.3 33.4 27.1 24.1 Fair value of scheme assets 25.7 19.8 16.8 17.4 14.4 deficit in the schemes 15.7 20.5 16.6 9.7 9.7 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities Amount 0.3 7.7 3.1 0.2 2.6 Percentage of scheme liabilities 0.7% 19.0% 9.4% 0.6% 10.8% Experience adjustments on scheme assets Amount 0.2 1.8 0.5 1.0 2.7 Percentage of scheme assets 0.8% 9.0% 2.7% 5.6% 18.8% 69 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Keller Group plc Company Financial Contents 71 Company Balance Sheet 72 Notes to the Company Accounts 70 Keller Group plc Company Financial Contents Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2006 2006 2005 Note m m Fixed assets Tangible xed assets 4 0.3 Investments 5 69.0 61.9 Deferred tax assets 6 3.3 72.6 61.9 Current assets Debtors 7 192.8 100.4 Cash at bank and in hand 0.4 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 9.0 28.7 Net current assets 184.2 71.7 Total assets less current liabilities 256.8 133.6 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 9 78.1 62.2 Retirement benets 14 0.8 1.3 Net assets 177.9 70.1 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 10 6.6 6.6 Share premium account 12 37.1 36.4 Capital redemption reserve 12 7.6 7.6 profit and loss account 12 126.6 19.5 Shareholders funds 11 177.9 70.1 Debtors and net current assets include debtors recoverable after more than one year of 191.0m 2005: 81.4m.
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 28 February 2007.
They were signed on its behalf by: J M West Chairman J W G Hind Finance Director 71 Keller Group plc Company Balance Sheet Notes to the Company Accounts 1 significant accounting policies Investments These accounts have been prepared under the historical Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where cost convention in accordance with applicable accounting appropriate, provisions for impairment.
standards of UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The following accounting policies have been applied Deferred taxation consistently with the exception that the Company has taken the Except where otherwise required by FRS 19, full provision option to apply the requirements of the amendment to FRS 17. without discounting is made for all timing differences which This has had no material impact on the accounts for the current have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
The principal accounting policies adopted under UK GAAP Tangible xed assets are the same as the Groups accounting policies under Tangible xed assets principally consist of leasehold International Financial Reporting Standards except for those improvements which are depreciated over the term of listed below: the lease.
Basis of accounting 2 Operating profit No profit and loss account is presented for the Company Operating profit is stated after charging fees payable to the as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Companys Auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts of 0.1m 2005: 0.1m.
The Company has no Retirement benets employees other than the Directors.
Directors remuneration The Company operates a dened benefit pension scheme, and details of their share-based payments are disclosed in the and also makes payments into dened contribution schemes Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 41. for employees.
The liability in respect of the dened benefit scheme is the present value of the dened benefit obligations at the balance sheet date, calculated using the projected unit credit method, less the fair value of the schemes assets.
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 17 recognising the current service cost and interest on scheme liabilities in the profit and loss account, and actuarial gains and losses in reserves.
Payments to dened contribution schemes are accounted for on an accruals basis.
72 Keller Group plc Notes to the Company Accounts Notes to the Company Accounts continued 3 Dividends paid Ordinary dividends paid on equity shares are disclosed in note 10 to the Consolidated Accounts.
4 Tangible xed assets Leasehold improvements Total m m Cost At 1 January 2006 Additions 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2006 0.3 0.3 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2006 and 31 December 2006 Carrying amount At 31 December 2006 0.3 0.3 At 1 January 2006 5 Investments The Companys principal investments are disclosed in note 15 to the Consolidated Accounts.
During the year the Company made an investment of 7.1m in Phi Group Limited.
Further details of this acquisition are given in note 4 to the Consolidated Accounts.
6 Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax assets recognised by the Company and movements thereon during the current reporting period.
Other Unrelieved timing losses differences Total m m m At 1 January 2006 Credit to the profit and loss account 3.0 0.3 3.3 At 31 December 2006 3.0 0.3 3.3 7 Debtors 2006 2005 m m Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 186.5 100.4 Other debtors 6.3 192.8 100.4 Included in the above are amounts falling due after more than one year in respect of: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 184.7 81.4 Other debtors 6.3 191.0 81.4 8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2006 2005 m m Overdrafts 5.3 Loan notes 2.8 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 5.9 17.1 Other creditors 2.5 2.8 Accruals 0.6 0.7 9.0 28.7 73 Keller Group plc Notes to the Company Accounts Notes to the Company Accounts continued 9 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 2006 2005 m m Bank loans 5.5 Other loans 49.0 56.5 Other creditors 3.0 0.4 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 20.6 5.3 78.1 62.2 Bank and other loans are repayable as follows: Between two and five years 20.5 In five years or more 34.0 56.5 54.5 56.5 The Company had an unutilised committed banking facility of 55.8m at 31 December 2006 2005: 65.0m : the facility expires on 20 June 2011.
10 Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 23 to the Consolidated Accounts.
11 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 2006 2005 m m profit for the financial year 114.4 13.3 Actuarial gain on dened benefit pension scheme net of deferred tax 0.2 Dividends 8.1 7.3 Issue of new shares 0.7 0.4 Share-based payments 0.8 0.5 Net movements in shareholders funds 107.8 7.1 Shareholders funds at 1 January 70.1 63.0 Shareholders funds at 31 December 177.9 70.1 All shares issued in the year related to share options that were exercised.
12 Reserves Share Capital profit and premium redemption loss account reserve account Total m m m m At 1 January 2006 36.4 7.6 19.5 63.5 profit for the financial year 114.4 114.4 Dividends 8.1 8.1 Issue of new shares 0.7 0.7 Share-based payments 0.8 0.8 At 31 December 2006 37.1 7.6 126.6 171.3 Of the profit and loss account reserve, an amount of 100.8m attributable to profits arising on an intra-Group reorganisation is not distributable.
13 Share-based payments Details of the Companys share option plans are given in note 28 to the Consolidated Accounts.
14 Retirement benefit schemes In the UK, the Company participates in the Keller Group Pension Scheme, a dened benefit scheme, details of which are given in note 29 to the Consolidated Accounts.
The Companys share of the present value of the assets of the scheme at the date of the last actuarial valuation on 5 April 2005 was 3.2m and the actuarial valuation showed a funding level of 62%.
The next actuarial valuation will be carried out as at 5 April 2008.
Details of the actuarial methods and assumptions, as well as steps taken to address the deficit in the scheme, are given in note 29 to the Consolidated Accounts.
74 Keller Group plc Notes to the Company Accounts Notes to the Company Accounts continued 14 Retirement benefit schemes continued There were no contributions outstanding in respect of the dened contribution schemes at 31 December 2006 2005: Nil.
Details of the Companys share of the Keller Group Pension Scheme are as follows: 2006 2005 m m Present value of the scheme liabilities 5.2 5.1 Present value of assets 4.1 3.2 deficit in the scheme 1.1 1.9 Related deferred tax asset at 30% 0.3 0.6 Net pension liability 0.8 1.3 The assets of the scheme were as follows: 2006 2005 m m Equities 2.5 1.7 Bonds 1.6 1.5 Total present value of assets 4.1 3.2 2006 2005 m m Changes in scheme liabilities Opening balance 5.1 6.9 Member contributions 0.1 Interest cost 0.3 0.2 Curtailment 0.1 Benets paid 0.2 0.1 Actuarial gains 1.9 Closing balance 5.2 5.1 Changes in scheme assets Opening balance 3.2 4.6 Expected return on scheme assets 0.2 0.2 Employer contributions 0.9 0.1 Member contributions 0.1 Benets paid 0.2 0.1 Actuarial gains 1.7 Closing balance 4.1 3.2 Actual return on scheme assets 0.2 0.1 Statement of total recognised gains and losses STRGL Actuarial gains from assets 1.7 Actuarial losses from liabilities 1.9 Net actuarial gain 0.2 Cumulative actuarial losses 0.4 0.4 Expense income recognised in the profit and loss account Curtailment 0.1 Operating costs 0.1 Interest cost 0.3 0.2 Expected return on assets 0.2 0.2 Expense income recognised in the income statement 0.1 0.1 Movements in the balance sheet liability Net liability at start of year 1.9 2.3 Expense income recognised in profit or loss 0.1 0.1 Contributions 0.9 0.1 Actuarial loss recognised in STRGL 0.2 Net liability at end of year 1.1 1.9 The expected return on the average value of the assets over the year was calculated using the long-term average rate of return expected over the remaining term of the schemes liabilities.
The contributions expected to be paid during 2007 are 0.2m.
75 Keller Group plc Notes to the Company Accounts Notes to the Company Accounts continued 14 Retirement benefit schemes continued The history of experience adjustments on scheme assets and liabilities is as follows: 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m Present value of dened benefit obligations 5.2 5.1 6.9 4.3 3.9 Fair value of scheme assets 4.1 3.2 4.6 2.8 2.3 deficit in the scheme 1.1 1.9 2.3 1.5 1.6 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities Amount 1.7 0.1 0.2 0.7 Percentage of scheme liabilities 0% 33% 0.9% 4.1% 12.5% Experience adjustments on scheme assets Amount 1.7 0.1 0.3 0.8 Percentage of scheme assets 0% 53.1% 2.7% 6.4% 21.7% 76 Keller Group plc Notes to the Company Accounts Financial Record UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS 2002 2003 2004 2004 2005 2006 m m m m m m Consolidated Income Statement Revenue 511.0 567.5 595.9 595.9 731.0 920.2 Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles 34.3 32.8 33.7 34.0 53.2 91.5 Amortisation of intangibles 3.1 3.4 2.9 0.1 0.1 2.4 Exceptional items 10.4 Operating profit 31.2 19.0 30.8 33.9 53.1 89.1 Interest receivable 0.3 0.3 0.3 1.4 1.5 2.3 Finance costs 4.2 4.5 4.5 5.6 5.8 7.7 profit before taxation 27.3 14.8 26.6 29.7 48.8 83.7 Taxation underlying 10.7 10.7 11.1 11.8 19.8 30.7 Taxation one-off tax credit 3.8 profit for the period 16.6 4.1 15.5 17.9 29.0 56.8 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 16.4 2.3 13.4 15.8 27.3 55.7 Minority interests 0.2 1.8 2.1 2.1 1.7 1.1 16.6 4.1 15.5 17.9 29.0 56.8 Consolidated Balance Sheet Intangible assets 66.7 57.0 57.9 51.8 55.7 57.5 Property, plant and equipment 79.8 82.2 80.9 80.9 90.4 114.6 Other net operating assets 43.9 40.1 46.8 46.3 49.7 48.0 Net debt 68.0 60.7 60.0 58.7 40.9 38.6 Other liabilities 22.3 21.0 24.2 29.3 37.7 22.4 Net assets 100.1 97.6 101.4 91.0 117.2 159.1 Minority interests 4.2 5.6 5.6 5.6 6.1 6.7 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 95.9 92.0 95.8 85.4 111.1 152.4 77 Keller Group plc Financial Record Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Keller 11 THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 10 above, the Group plc will be held at the ofces of Smitheld Consultants Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Limited, 10 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4HJ on 21 June Section 95 1 of the Act to allot equity securities as dened 2007 at 11.00am for the transaction of the following business: in Section 94 2 of the Act of the Company within the terms of the authority set out in resolution 10 above as if Ordinary business Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report and the provided that such power shall be limited to: Statement of Accounts for the year ended 31 December i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a 2006 together with the Independent Auditors Report rights issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares in thereon.
proportion as nearly as may be to their respective 2 To declare a final dividend of 11.4p per ordinary share, holdings of such shares subject only to such exclusions such dividend to be paid on 29 June 2007 to members on or other arrangements as the Directors may consider the register at the close of business on 1 June 2007. expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or 3 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year practical considerations arising under the laws of any ended 31 December 2006. territory or the requirements of any regulatory body: and 4 To re-elect as a Director Dr K Bond who retires by rotation.
ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i 5 To re-elect as a Director Mr J W G Hind who retires by of this resolution of equity securities up to an aggregate rotation.
nominal value of 329,315 6 To re-elect as a Director Dr W Sondermann who retires by and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual rotation.
General Meeting of the Company save that the Directors 7 To re-elect as a Director Dr J M West who, having served may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which on the Board as a Non-executive Director for nine years, would or might require equity securities to be allotted after offers himself for re-election.
such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities 8 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors to the Company pursuant to such offer or agreement as if the power and to authorise the Directors to x their remuneration.
conferred hereby had not expired.
To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolutions of 12 THAT the Company be and is hereby granted general and which resolutions numbered 9 and 10 will be proposed as unconditional authority pursuant to Section 166 of the ordinary resolutions and resolutions numbered 11 and 12 will be Act to make market purchases as dened in Section 163 proposed as special resolutions: of the Act of up to in aggregate 6,586,307 of its own 9 THAT the Directors be and are hereby generally authorised ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company for the purposes and subject to the provisions of Article ordinary shares representing 10% of the Companys 162 of the Companys Articles of Association to offer the issued ordinary share capital at the date of this notice holders of ordinary shares the right to elect to receive provided that: ordinary shares, credited as fully paid, instead of cash in i the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary respect of all or part of such dividend or dividends as may share is an amount equal to not more than 5% above be declared by the Company or by the Directors and that the average of the middle market quotations for the the authority of the Directors to make such offers shall be shares taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily exercisable during the period commencing on the date of Ofcial List for the five business days before the day the passing of this resolution and expiring at the conclusion on which the purchase is made exclusive of expenses of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
payable by the Company: 10 THAT: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share is i the Directors be and are hereby generally and 10p: and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section iii the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of relevant securities as dened in Section 80 2 of the the Company, except that the Company may, before Act of the Company up to an aggregate nominal such expiry, enter into a contract for the purchase of amount of 2,193,240 during the period commencing its own shares which would or may require to be on the date of the passing of this resolution and completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiring at the conclusion of the next Annual General expiration of this authority as if the said authority Meeting of the Company, provided that the Company had not expired.
may make at any time prior to the expiry of such authority any offer or agreement which would or might By order of the Board require relevant securities of the Company to be allotted after the expiry of such authority and the Directors may Jackie Holman Registered ofce: allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or Secretary Capital House, 25 Chapel Street agreement as if the authority hereby conferred had not 28 February 2007 London NW1 5DH expired: and ii all previous authorisations given by the Company in general meeting or otherwise pursuant to Section 80 of the Act be and are hereby revoked to the extent not previously exercised.
78 Keller Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 4.
Proxies Notes Any member entitled to attend and, on a poll, vote at the Annual 1.
Resolution 9 Scrip dividends General Meeting convened by this notice may appoint one or Article 162 of the Companys Articles of Association permits the more proxies to attend and to vote instead of him.
A proxy need Directors, subject to the authority of the Company in general not be a member of the Company.
meeting, to offer to shareholders the right to elect to receive To appoint a proxy, the form enclosed with this notice ordinary shares, credited as fully paid, instead of cash in respect should be completed and deposited at the ofces of the of dividends declared by the Company or by the Directors.
Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours before the time of The Board recommends that by an ordinary resolution it the Annual General Meeting specified above or of the adjourned be given authority to make such offers until the conclusion of meeting at which the proxy proposes to vote.
Completion of a the next Annual General Meeting.
form of proxy does not preclude a member from attending and 2.
Resolutions 10 and 11 Authority to allot shares voting at the meeting in person.
Under the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Directors of the 5.
Directors Service Contracts and Biographical Details Company may only allot unissued shares if authorised to do Copies of all the Directors service contracts or memoranda so under Section 80 of the Act.
Section 89 of the Act prevents of the terms thereof: the register of interests of Directors in allotments for cash, other than to existing shareholders in the share capital of the Company: and the memorandum proportion to their existing holdings, unless the Directors are and Articles of Association will be available for inspection at specically authorised.
This gives existing shareholders what the registered ofce of the Company during usual business are known as pre-emption rights.
hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded The Articles of Association give a general authority to the from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Directors to allot unissued shares and disapply these preMeeting and will be available for inspection at the place of the emption rights.
Passing resolutions 10 and 11 will extend the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and Directors exibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, during the meeting.
when opportunities arise, to issue new shares.
Directors biographical details are set out on pages 30 The Directors will be able to issue new shares up to a and 31. nominal value of 2,193,240 which is equal to approximately 33.3% of the issued ordinary share capital at 28 February 2007.
The Directors will also be able either to issue shares for cash, other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings, up to a maximum nominal amount of 329,315 representing about 5% of the issued ordinary share capital at 28 February 2007 or, other than for cash, in a rights issue.
These arrangements are intended to ensure that the interests of existing shareholders are protected so that, for example, in the event of a share issue which is not a rights issue, the proportionate interests of existing shareholders could not, without their agreement, be reduced by more than 5% by the issue of new shares for cash to new shareholders.
Further, the Board does not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital, other than in a rights issue, in any three-year period, in accordance with the guidelines of the ABI.
The Board has no current plans to allot ordinary shares except in connection with the executive share arrangements.
The authority sought by resolutions 10 and 11 will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting, but could be varied or withdrawn by agreement of shareholders at an intervening general meeting.
Resolution 12 Purchase of the Companys own shares This resolution grants a limited authority to the Company to purchase through the market up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
The resolution species the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be bought at the date of the notice.
The authority sought will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have no immediate intention of exercising the proposed authority when it becomes effective.
Any purchases will only be made when, in the opinion of the Directors, an improvement in earnings per share of the remaining shares is anticipated and it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
79 Keller Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Principal Ofces UK Australia USA Continental Europe Keller Limited Franki Pacic Hayward Baker Inc Keller Grundbau GmbH Oxford Road Holdings Pty Ltd 1130 Annapolis Road Kaiserleistrasse 44 Ryton-on-Dunsmore Level 1 Odenton D-63006 Offenbach Coventry CV8 3EG 4 Burbank Place Maryland 21113 Germany Telephone 02476 511266 Baulkham Hills Telephone 1410 551 8200 Telephone 4969 80510 Fax 02476 305230 NSW 2153 Fax 1410 5511900 Fax 4969 8051244 Telephone 612 8866 1100 Makers UK Limited Fax 612 8866 1101 Case Foundation Company Keller Fondations Spciales 3rd Floor, Lyon Court PO Box 40 Espace Plein Ciel Walsworth Road Vibro-Pile Aust.
Pty Ltd 1325 West Lake Street Alle fide lEurope Hitchin SG4 9SX No 1, Steele Court Roselle F-67960 Entzheim Telephone 01462 477333 Mentone Illinois 60172 France Fax 01462 477337 VIC 3194 Telephone 1630 529 2911 Telephone 333 88599200 Telephone 613 9584 4544 Fax 1630 529 4802 Fax 333 88599590 Phi Group Limited Fax 613 9583 8629 Harcourt House Suncoast Post-Tension L. P. Keller Grundbau Ges.
mbH Royal Crescent Keller Ground 654 N Sam Houston Park Way Mariahilfer Strasse 127a Cheltenham GL50 3DA Engineering Pty Ltd East, Suite 110 Postfach 99 Telephone 0870 333 4122 Level 1 Houston A-1151 Vienna Fax 0870 333 4127 4 Burbank Place Texas 77060 Austria Baulkham Hills Telephone 1281 668 1840 Telephone 431 8923526 NSW 2153 Fax 1281 668 1864 Fax 431 8923711 Telephone 612 8866 1155 Fax 612 8866 1151 McKinney Drilling Keller-Terra S. L. Company Miguel Yuste, 45BIS Piling Contractors Pty Ltd 1130 Annapolis Road E-28037 Madrid 5 Jacque Court Suite 103 Spain P. O.
Lakeside B-5-10 Plaza Dwitasik California 92040 Bandar Sri Permaisuri Telephone 1800 237 4551 56000 Cheras Fax 1619 443 0724 Kuala Lumpur Telephone 603 91733198 Fax 603 91733196 Geotechnical Engineering 462 Horreya Street Roushdy Alexandria Egypt Telephone 203 5458443 Fax 203 5427372 Keller Foundations SE Asia Pte Ltd 25 International Business Park #04110 German Center Singapore 60 99 16 Telephone 65 65 62 90 12 Fax 65 65 62 90 14 80 Keller Group plc Principal Ofces Secretary and Advisers Contents Company Secretary Stockbrokers and Principal Bankers Financial Public J F Holman Financial Advisers Lloyds TSB Bank plc Relations Advisers Dresdner Kleinwort 25 Gresham Street Smithfield Consultants Registered Office 30 Gresham Street London EC2V 7HN 10 Aldersgate Street Capital House P. O.
Box 52715 London EC1A 4HJ 25 Chapel Street London EC2P 2XY Legal Advisers London NW1 5DH DLA Piper UK LLP Registrars Auditors 3 Noble Street Lloyds TSB Registrars Registered Number KPMG Audit Plc London EC2V 7EE The Causeway 2442580 Chartered Accountants Worthing 8 Salisbury Square West Sussex BN99 6DA London EC4Y 8BB 1 Financial Highlights 2 Keller at a Glance 4 Chairmans Statement Dr Michael West 6 Year at a Glance 8 Keller Group plc Local Focus excellent service People with Deep Experience huge knowledge base Global Scale creates opportunity Broad Markets and Customer Base reducedrisk Widest Range of Technologies flexible and cost effective Growth Platform organic and acquisition growth 11 Operating Review Justin Atkinson 22 Financial Review James Hind 24 Social Responsibility 30 Board of Directors 32 Accounts Designed and produced by greymatter williams and phoa Photography Greg Bartley 81 Keller Group plc Secretary and Advisers Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Knowing Our Ground Keller Group plc Keller Group plc Capital House Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25 Chapel Street London NW1 5DH www.
