Consolidated financial statements LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Insurance policies are treated as plan assets of a fide ned bene t plan if the proceeds of the policy: can only be used to fund employee bene ts: are not available to the groups creditors: and either cannot be paid to the group unless the proceeds represent surplus assets not needed to meet all the bene t obligations or are a reimbursement for bene ts already paid by the group.
Insurance policies that do not meet the above criteria are treated as non-current investments and are held at fair value in the balance sheet.
The current service cost is recognised in the income statement as an employee bene t expense.
The interest cost resulting from the increase in the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation over time and the expected return on plan assets, is recognised as net interest expense or income.
The expected return on plan assets is, for UK fide ned bene t pension schemes, shown net of an expected reduction for payments to the Pension Protection Fund the PPF levy.
The difference between the actual and expected PPF levy is treated as an actuarial gain or loss.
A past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that bene ts have already vested, or is otherwise amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the bene ts vest.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments or changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited in the statement of recognised income and expense in the period in which they arise.
Share-based payment The cost of share-based employee compensation arrangements, whereby employees receive remuneration in the form of shares or share options, is recognised as an employee bene t expense in the income statement.
The total expense to be apportioned over the vesting period of the bene t is determined by reference to the fair value at the grant date of the shares or share options awarded and the number that are expected to vest.
The assumptions underlying the number of awards expected to vest are subsequently adjusted to re ect conditions prevailing at the balance sheet date.
At the vesting date of an award, the cumulative expense is adjusted to take account of the awards that actually vest.
Short-term compensated absences A liability for short-term compensated absences, such as holiday, is recognised for the amount the group may be required to pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the balance sheet date.
Death-in-service bene ts Insured death-in-service bene ts are accounted for as fide ned contribution arrangements.
Death-in-service bene ts for which the group does not have insurance cover are accounted for as fide ned bene t arrangements.
Employee share ownership trusts Employee share ownership plan ESOP trusts, which purchase and hold ordinary shares of the company in connection with certain employee share schemes, are consolidated in the group financial statements.
Any consideration paid or received by ESOP trusts for the purchase or sale of the companys own shares is shown as a movement in shareholders equity.
Dividends Dividends to the companys shareholders are recognised as a liability and deducted from shareholders equity in the period in which the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards The accounting policies adopted in these consolidated financial statements are consistent with those of the annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, except as described in the first paragraph below: The following standards, amendments to and interpretations of published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006 but had no material impact on the consolidated financial statements: IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
Amendment to IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Cash ow hedge accounting of forecast intra-group transactions.
The following standards, amendments to and interpretations of published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006 but are not relevant to and had no effect on the groups operations: IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds.
IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Speci c Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
