Notes to the company financial statements I.
Accounting policies The following are the principal accounting policies of the company which have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Basis of accounting The company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK accounting standards.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost.
Such investments include both investments in shares issued by the subsidiary and other parent entity interests that in substance form part of the parent entitys investment in the subsidiary.
These include investments in the form of loans which have no xed repayment terms and which have been provided to subsidiaries as an additional source of long-term capital.
Trade amounts receivable from subsidiaries in the normal course of business and other amounts advanced on commercial terms and conditions are included in debtors.
Investments in subsidiaries in the companys balance sheet are held at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Financial instruments The company has taken advantage of the exemptions available in FRS 25 para 3 c b not to disclose any information relating to financial instruments as the companys financial statements are included in publicly available consolidated financial statements.
The following policies for financial instruments have been applied in the preparation of the companys financial statements: Cash at bank and in hand Cash at bank and in hand includes short-term deposits with an original maturity period of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are an integral part of the companys cash management are included in cash at bank and in hand where they have a legal right of offset against positive cash balances, otherwise bank overdrafts are classi ed as borrowings.
Debtors Debtors are stated at amounts receivable less any provision for recoverability.
A trade or other receivable is derecognised from the balance sheet when the company enters into a nancing transaction which transfers to a third party all signi cant rights or other access to bene ts relating to that asset, and all signi cant exposures to the risks inherent in that asset.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated either at amortised cost or, if designated as such, at fair value through pro t or loss.
For borrowings stated at amortised cost, any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is recognised in the pro t and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Taxation Corporation tax is payable on taxable pro ts at amounts expected to be paid, or recovered, under the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised to take account of timing differences between the treatment of transactions for financial reporting purposes and their treatment for tax purposes.
A deferred tax asset is only recognised when it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable pro ts from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Foreign currencies The functional currency of the company is pounds sterling.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of the company at the rates prevailing at the dates of the individual transactions.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses arising are charged or credited to the pro t and loss account within net operating costs.
Employee bene ts Retirement bene ts The company participates in retirement bene t plans of a fide ned contribution nature.
The cost of fide ned contribution plans is charged to the pro t and loss account on the basis of contributions payable by the company during the year.
Share-based payment The cost of share-based employee compensation arrangements, whereby employees receive remuneration in the form of shares or share options, is recognised as an employee bene t expense in the pro t and loss account.
The total expense to be apportioned over the vesting period of the bene t is determined by reference to the fair value at the grant date of the shares or share options awarded and the number that are expected to vest.
The assumptions underlying the number of awards expected to vest are subsequently adjusted to re ect conditions prevailing at the balance sheet date.
At the vesting date of an award, the cumulative expense is adjusted to take account of the awards that actually vest.
Other employee bene ts A liability for other employee bene ts, such as paid holiday, is recognised for the amount the company may be required to pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the balance sheet date.
