Company financial statements LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Notes to the company financial statements continued XIII.
Share-based payment continued The fair value of ESOS options was measured using a Monte Carlo simulation model and the fair value of Sharesave scheme options was measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The fair value of share awards under the Equity Partnership Plans was measured at the market share price at the date of grant reduced for the present value of expected dividends over the vesting period, for which award holders have no entitlement.
Expected volatility was determined using the historical volatility of the companys share price over a period commensurate with the expected life of the share option.
The period from 1 July 1999 to 30 June 2001 was excluded as management believe it represented a period of high share price volatility which is unlikely to be repeated in the future.
Share awards under the Equity Partnership Plans are assumed to be exercised on the vesting date.
Sharesave options are assumed to be exercised three months after the vesting date, the mid-point of the contractual exercise period.
At the date of grant, it is assumed that performance conditions will be met in full.
Adjustments are made subsequently, where necessary, to re ect updated assessments of whether performance conditions will be met and the final determination on the vesting date.
The share-based payment expense also takes account of expected forfeiture from the balance sheet date to the end of the vesting period following cessation of employment.
A weighted average forfeiture rate of 7% per annum was assumed for calculating the share-based payment expense for the year ended 31 December 2006 2005: 10%.
The company recognised a total expense in respect of equity-settled share-based payment arrangements of 1.0 million in the year ended 31 December 2006 2005: 0.7 million.
Cash-settled share-based payment arrangements The company does not operate separate cash-settled share-based payments arrangements: however, social security obligations arising on share option and share award schemes are treated as such an arrangement for accounting purposes.
The liability for cash-settled share-based social security payments at 31 December 2006 was 0.4 million 2005: 0.3 million.
The movement in the liability resulted in an expense for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 0.1 million 2005: 0.1 million.
Contingent liabilities The company has guaranteed certain contracts in the normal course of business and bank borrowings of its subsidiaries.
It has also provided guarantees to vendors in respect of the deferred element on acquisitions.
Related party transactions The company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 Related Party Transactions from disclosing transactions with other members of the group headed by LogicaCMG plc.
Transactions with the directors of the company are disclosed in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 55 to 65.
There were no other related party transactions during the current or prior year.
Events after the balance sheet On 20 February 2007, the group announced the sale of Telecoms Products for 265 million to an investment consortium led by Atlantic Bridge Ventures.
The transaction re ects the groups strategic focus on developing as a major international IT and business services company.
The transaction is subject to the necessary employee consultation and regulatory approval.
Subject to these conditions being met, the group expects to return approximately 130 million of the net proceeds to shareholders via a share buyback programme.
The remaining net proceeds will be used to reduce debt and to fund the buyout of some existing minority interests.
The group will provide transition services through 2007 to support the operations of the Telecoms Products business.
A loan of 15 million, representing the cash in the business on 31 December 2006, will be provided to fund working capital and is repayable two years from legal completion.
The loan will bear interest on a commercial basis after the first six months.
