Additional information LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Glossary of Key Performance Indicators KPIs Adjusted operating margin ensures pro t is less volatile, by ensuring Rationale: Assuming the response fide nition: Adjusted operating pro t as a that a suf cient level of revenue is rate remains unchanged, the weighted percentage of revenue.
Adjusted operating delivered from continued investment mean score is a measure of overall staff pro t is operating pro t excluding the results in domain expertise.
engagement with LogicaCMG and the of discontinued operations, exceptional Pages 10, 11, 27 change in satisfaction from year to year.
items and amortisation of intangible assets Page 45 initially recognised at fair value in a business Adjusted earnings per share EPS combination, whenever such items occur.
fide nition: Net earnings attributable Cash conversion Rationale: This measure is used to to equity holders of the parent company fide nition: The net cash in ow from trading compare quality of earnings with those of excluding, whenever such items occur, operations divided by adjusted operating our peers and to determine performance the result of discontinued operations, pro t see adjusted operating margin KPI.
against our medium-term strategic exceptional items, mark-to-market gains Rationale: A measure of the ability to objective of delivering adjusted operating and losses on financial assets and financial generate cash from operations.
The ability margin of greater than 10% in our major liabilities designated at fair value through to convert pro t to cash is based on an geographies UK, the Netherlands, pro t or loss, and amortisation of intangible internal discipline of focus on cash and France, and the Nordics.
assets initially recognised at fair value in the strength of the internal collections Pages 27, 80 a business combination, net of tax where mechanism, and is a proxy for strength applicable, divided by the weighted average of relationships with customers.
Book-to-bill number of shares outstanding in the period.
Page 33 fide nition: Orders booked in a period Rationale: Directors annual bonuses and divided by revenues in the period.
the Executive Equity Participation Plan are Organic revenue growth in IT services Rationale: Provides visibility of future linked to EPS, which serves as a measure fide nition: Percentage growth in IT services revenue.
A book-to-bill above one means of pro tability in the business.
EPS growth revenue in the current year compared that the company continues to build good over the relevant three-year performance to revenue on a like-for-like basis in the order backlog for future delivery.
period is expected to exceed growth in previous year e. g. taking into account the Page 26 the UK Retail Price Index by at least 3% impact of acquisitions, divestments and per annum.
Balanced business pro le with four Pages 2, 27, 83, 84 Rationale: Provides a measure of our signi cant European pro t generators ability to grow revenue within IT services.
fide nition: Percentage of group adjusted Employee attrition This demonstrates our ability to take operating pro t attributable to each fide nition: Annualised voluntary attrition advantage of market growth, to use scale to of our major European pro t centres measured by number of voluntary leavers generate market share and to leverage our UK, the Netherlands, France and the as a percentage of the total employee global delivery capability to expand revenue Nordics.
A major pro t centre is deemed population.
There will always be a natural despite price fide ation caused by increased signi cant when it exceeds 15% of level of voluntary attrition due to people competition from offshore players in some adjusted operating pro t. retiring, decisions to change careers and of our geographies.
Rationale: Strengthening our position in a competitive marketplace.
Pages 5, 27 Europe means we now have four signi cant Rationale: Retention of employees, pro t generators.
A balanced business in alongside ongoing training and Percentage of revenue from outsourcing which four pro t generators account for at development, allows us to ensure that we fide nition: Revenue from outsourcing least 15% each, ensures less risk associated are maintaining and upgrading the domain contracts as a percentage of group revenue.
with negative developments in any expertise which is a key differentiator Rationale: IT outsourcing including single market.
It is also a key measure applications management and business Page 2 of the satisfaction that employees get process outsourcing are predicted to be from working in LogicaCMG.
It is also a the fastest growing segments within IT Balanced market sector pro le measure of our managers ability to retain professional services in Western Europe fide nition: Revenue for each market sector their employees in a market where there from 2007 to 2010, with compound annual within IT services Financial Services, Energy is signi cant movement of employees, growth rates of 8.0% and 9.3% respectively and Utilities, Telecoms and Media, Industry, particularly when the market is buoyant.
Longer-term value-added Distribution & Transport IDT, Public Sector Page 28 outsourcing contracts represent a more as a percentage of group IT services revenue.
predictable revenue stream, assuming good Rationale: A balanced market sector Employee satisfaction project and risk management.
pro le with no sector accounting for fide nition: A weighted mean score for Pages 7, 27 less than 10% or more than 30% ensures key questions in the annual LogicaCMG that group revenue is less susceptible employee survey.
Following the acquisition to weakness in any one segment.
It also of Unilog and WM-data, we are re ning For risk factors see page 54.
For strategic objectives see pages 2 to 9. our employee satisfaction survey to ensure KPIs are identi ed throughout this report consistency across the group.
report on this measure in 2007.
128 Published by LogicaCMG Corporate Communications, London.
co. uk Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Logic LogicaCMG aCMG p pl lc c R Re egist gistered ered o of f ce ce:: St Stephenson ephenson H Ho ouse use 75 75 H Ha am mp ps st te ea ad d R Ro oa ad d London London NW NW1 1 2 2P PL L UK UK R Re egist gistered ered in in England England No No.. 1 16 63 31 16 63 39 9
