Consolidated financial statements LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information LogicaCMG is a major international force in IT and business services.
It employs around 40,000 people across 41 countries.
LogicaCMGs focus is on enabling its customers to build and maintain leadership positions using LogicaCMGs deep industry knowledge and its track record for successful delivery.
The company provides business consulting, systems integration and IT and business process outsourcing across diverse markets including Telecoms and Media, Financial Services, Energy and Utilities, Industry, Distribution and Transport and the Public Sector.
Headquartered in Europe, LogicaCMG is listed on both the London Stock Exchange and Euronext Amsterdam LSE: LOG: Euronext: LOG and traded on the Xternal List of the Nordic Exchange in Stockholm.
More information is available at www.
The company is a public company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The address of its registered of ce is Stephenson House, 75 Hampstead Road, London, NW1 2PL, UK.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU at 31 December 2006, and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 the Act that remain applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention with the exception of certain items which are measured at fair value, as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include those of the company and all of its subsidiary undertakings together, the group, and the groups share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled directly or indirectly by the company.
Control arises when the company has the ability to direct the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain bene ts from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal respectively, using the same accounting policies as those of the group.
All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
On acquisition, the interest of any minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair value of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, the minority interest in the consolidated balance sheet re ects the minoritys proportion of changes in the net assets of the subsidiary.
A minority interest is not recognised in a subsidiary with net liabilities except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation, and is able to make an additional investment, to cover cumulative losses.
All intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups are classi ed as held for sale in the balance sheet if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than ongoing use but only if the sale is highly probable and is expected to complete within one year from the date of classi cation.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The results of an operation that represents a separate major line of business and either has been disposed of during the period or is classi ed as held for sale, are classi ed as discontinued operations.
The post-tax pro t or loss of the discontinued operation, plus the post-tax gain or loss recognised on the measurement of the assets and liabilities within the disposal group at fair value less costs to sell, is presented as a single amount on the face of the income statement.
Intangible assets All intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the groups interest in the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination and the excess of the consideration paid for an increase in stake in an existing subsidiary over the share of the carrying value of net assets acquired.
Goodwill previously written off directly to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1 January 1998 has not been reinstated and is not recycled to the income statement on the disposal of the business to which it relates.
Development costs Expenditure incurred in the development of software products or enhancements, and their related intellectual property rights, is capitalised as an intangible asset only when the future economic bene ts expected to arise are deemed probable and the costs can be reliably measured.
Development costs not meeting these criteria, and all research costs, are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives once the related software product or enhancement is available for use.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised at cost and amortised over their useful economic life.
Intangible assets acquired through a business combination are initially measured at fair value and amortised over their useful economic lives.
