Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards continued The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued but are not effective for 2006 and have not been early adopted: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
The main impact on the group will be additional disclosures.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The group is currently considering adopting the standard early.
The main impact would be that operating segments would be identi ed, and segment information provided, on the same basis as is used internally for evaluating segment performance and allocating resources.
Reconciliations would be provided of total segment revenues, pro t, assets, liabilities and other amounts to the corresponding amounts in the consolidated financial statements, together with an explanation of any differences in measurement basis.
IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperin ationary Economies, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2006.
No signi cant impact on the consolidated financial statements is expected.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006.
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006.
Management believes that this interpretation should not have a signi cant impact on the reassessment of embedded derivatives as the group has already assessed whether embedded derivatives should be separated using principles consistent with IFRIC 9.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital disclosures, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
All the IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and amendments to existing standards had been adopted by the EU at the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements.
The directors anticipate that the future adoption of those standards, interpretations and amendments listed above that have not been adopted early will not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Key areas of estimation uncertainty In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management has to make judgements on how to apply the groups accounting policies and make estimates about the future.
The critical judgements that have been made in arriving at the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements and the key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a signi cant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the next financial year, are discussed below.
Revenue recognition The revenue and pro t of xed price contracts is recognised on a percentage of completion basis when the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably.
Management exercises judgement in determining whether a contracts outcome can be estimated reliably.
Management also makes estimates of the total cost of professional services, or in some instances total contract costs, which are used in determining the value of amounts recoverable on contracts.
Estimates are continually revised based on changes in the facts relating to each contract.
The carrying amount of amounts recoverable on contracts is disclosed in note 24.
Impairment of goodwill The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires an estimate to be made of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation includes estimates about the future financial performance of the cash-generating units, including managements estimates of long-term operating margins and long-term growth rates.
The carrying amount of goodwill and the key assumptions used in the calculation of value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill is attributed are disclosed in note 18. fide ned bene t plans The calculation of the fide ned bene t obligation of a fide ned bene t plan requires estimation of future events, for example salary and pension increases, in ation and mortality rates.
In the event that future experience does not bear out the estimates made in previous years, an adjustment will be made to the plans fide ned bene t obligation in future periods which could have a material effect on the group.
The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities relating to fide ned bene t plans, together with the key assumptions used in the calculation of the fide ned bene t obligations relating to those plans are disclosed in note 38.
Income taxes In recognising income tax assets and liabilities, management makes estimates of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain.
Where the final outcome of such matters is different, or expected to be different, from previous assessments made by management, a change to the carrying value of income tax assets and liabilities will be recorded in the period in which such a determination is made.
The carrying values of income tax assets and liabilities are disclosed separately in the consolidated balance sheet.
