Borrowings continued An analysis of borrowings at the balance sheet date by the earlier of maturity or, for oating rate borrowings, the earliest contractual repricing date, was as follows: 2006 2005 m m On demand or within one year 732.1 333.7 In one to two years 2.0 6.6 In two to three years 0.3 1.1 In three to four years In four to five years In more than five years 734.4 341.4 All borrowings are denominated in the borrowing entitys functional currency except for the convertible bonds and certain amounts drawn down under the revolving credit facility.
Borrowings not denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing company are designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations see note 27 and therefore only expose the group to income statement foreign currency risk to the extent that the hedge is ineffective.
The directors have estimated the fair value of the groups borrowings as follows: 2006 2005 m m Bank overdrafts 26.4 Bank loans 501.3 135.9 Finance lease obligations 6.4 4.8 Convertible bonds 202.4 205.0 Loan notes 0.4 Other borrowings 1.1 737.6 346.1 Fair value has been estimated by discounting the cash ows relating to borrowings at the market rate at the balance sheet date or, for the quoted instruments, by reference to the prevailing market price and exchange rate at the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments Financial risk management The multi-national nature of the groups operations and their nancing expose it to a variety of financial risks.
The principal risks that the group is exposed to are foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
The groups policies with respect to managing those risks in both the current and prior year are set out below.
The group does not undertake any trading or speculative activity in financial instruments.
The group operates within policies and procedures that are formally approved by the Board, which include strict controls on the use of financial instruments in managing the groups risks.
Foreign exchange risk The group has operations in many countries worldwide, exposing the group to foreign exchange risk on the translation of the income statement and balance sheet of foreign operations into pounds sterling.
Operations are also subject to foreign exchange risk from committed transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency and, once recognised, the revaluation of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
The translation of the balance sheets of overseas operations has been substantially hedged by managing the currency mix of the groups borrowings.
The group used euro, US dollar and Swedish krona borrowings to hedge the balance sheet translation of operations with the euro, US dollar and Swedish krona as their functional currency.
The group does not hedge the foreign exchange risk relating to the translation of the income statements of overseas operations.
To mitigate foreign exchange risk arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than an entitys functional currency, amounts not denominated in the functional currencies are hedged economically by means of forward contracts or currency overdrafts.
Interest rate risk The groups policy is to fund its operations through a mixture of retained earnings, equity and debt.
Careful consideration is given to the appropriate split of debt and equity to ensure acceptable levels of liquidity and interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk is then further managed by holding a portion of the groups borrowings at xed rates of interest.
At 31 December 2006, the group had 208.9 million 2005: 221.0 million of xed rate borrowings out of total borrowings of 734.4 million 2005: 341.4 million.
