indd Proof: 12 Proof Read by: Operator: Dave Date: 23 11 2006 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Rob First Read Revisons Shareholder information Lonmins shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg Transcontinental Automated Payment System TAPS stock exchanges, and ADRs representing Lonmin shares are TAPS permits shareholders resident in certain countries to also traded in an over-the-counter market in the USA.
receive dividend payments to their local bank and in their local currency.
All eligible shareholders have been or will be sent UK share register information information on TAPS by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
All holdings of the Companys shares are maintained on the Companys UK share register, with the exception of those held Dividend Reinvestment Plan on the South African branch register.
The register is A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP is available through administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars, who offer a range of which eligible shareholders may invest the whole of their cash shareholder information online, including facilities to check dividends in additional Lonmin Plc shares.
Shareholders on shareholdings, update personal details and cast votes at the registers on the record date for the recommended final general meetings as well as providing practical help on dividend, 12 January 2007, may participate in the plan in transferring shares at www.
Up-to-date respect of that dividend, provided their application forms are information on the Company is contained in the Companys received by 26 January 2007.
Copies of the DRIP brochure website at www.
com, which also includes a link to the and application form have been sent to eligible shareholders registrars website.
on the registers up to 8 July 2006 and are being sent to those who are newly entered on the registers between then and South African branch register information 12 January 2007.
Further copies are available from the The South African branch register is administered by registrars or can be downloaded from the registrars website.
Computershare Investor Services 2004 Pty Limited.
American depository receipts ADRs Contact details for both registrars can be found in Corporate The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for Information on page 85. which The Bank of New York acts as the depository.
Each ADR represents one ordinary share of the company.
The ADRs Dividends trade in the over-the-counter OTC market under the symbol Currency of dividends LOMNY.
When dividends are paid to shareholders, the The Company declares dividends in US Dollars.
Subject to depository makes the equivalent payment in US Dollars to shareholder approval, the final dividend of 55 cents per share ADR holders.
for the year ended 30 September 2006 will be paid on 9 February 2007 to shareholders on the registers at the close of Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on business on 12 January 2007.
The dividend will be paid in page 85.
Sterling to UK shareholders unless they elect to receive US Dollar dividends calculated at the US Dollar to Sterling Further information for UK domiciled shareholders exchange rate on 19 January 2007 and in Rand to Capital Gains Tax shareholders on the SA branch register calculated at the US For capital gains tax purposes, shareholders disposing of Dollar to Rand exchange rate on 28 December 2006.
The shares in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May dividend will be paid in US Dollars to all other overseas 1998, who held shares prior to that date, should apportion the shareholders unless they elect to receive Sterling dividends or base cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two have mandated their dividend payments to a UK bank or companies.
Based on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 participate in TAPS.
Elections to receive an alternative currency of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would US Dollars or Sterling should comprise a signed request to be 80.498% for Lonmin Plc and 19.502% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address shown on page 85 to be received by 5.00p.
No transfers will be The Companys capital reduction was completed on permitted between the UK principal register and the SA branch 22 February 2002.
For the purposes of assessing any liability register from the date on which the Rand dividend is to capital gains tax, UK shareholders should apportion 13.33% announced until the record date, both dates inclusive i. e. the of the base cost of their original shareholding to the capital last day on which transfers between registers will be permitted reduction and the balance to their new holding of ordinary is Wednesday 27 December 2006. shares of $1 each.
Dividend payment to your bank account The Company can pay UK registered shareholders dividends direct to their bank or building society account.
This means that dividends will normally be in shareholders accounts on the same day as the payment is made and tax vouchers will be posted to the shareholders registered addresses.
Shareholders wishing to adopt this method of payment should contact the registrars.
86 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2006 Job: 7315 LONMIN REP back AW.
indd Proof: 12 Proof Read by: Operator: Dave Date: 23 11 2006 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Rob First Read Revisons The market price of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares at 31 March Warning to shareholders 1982 was 38.9 pence as adjusted for subsequent A survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported capitalisation issues, and 155.6 pence as adjusted for the that an increasing number of shareholders of UK listed consolidation of the Companys shares on 24 April 1998 and companies are being targeted by individuals purporting to be 125.3 pence as adjusted for the fide-merger of Lonrho Africa Plc legitimate brokers or financial advisors.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Accounts ISAs advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited offers reports on the Company.
the Lonmin Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA from which dividend income and capital gains are completely free of UK If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: tax for investment in Lonmin Plc shares.
UK registered make sure you get the correct name of the person and shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin Corporate ISA up organisation and make a record of any other information to a maximum currently of 7,000 annually for a maxi ISA or they give you, e. g. telephone number, address, etc.
alternatively one stocks-and-shares mini ISA of 3,000, by check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before direct transfer of eligible employee shares and or by sale and getting involved.
uk register reinvestment of existing Lonmin Plc shares.
Contact details can the FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised be found in Corporate Information on page 85.
Rensburg overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK Sheppards Investment Management Limited is regulated by investors and any approach from such organisations should the FSA.
be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
This is not a recommendation that shareholders should If you deal with any unauthorised form, you would not be subscribe to the ISA.
The advantages of holding shares in an eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services ISA vary according to individual circumstances and Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can, preferably, be shareholders who are in any doubt should consult their contacted by completing an on-line form at www.
pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml or, if you do not have access to the internet, on 0845 606 1234.
ShareGift inform the registrars on the relevant telephone numbers Lonmin is proud to support ShareGift, an independent charity listed on page 85.
They are not able to investigate such share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh incidents themselves but will record the details and pass Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the value of which make them uneconomic to sell, can donate the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide range of charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be obtained from their website at www.
org and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded from the Companys website.
87 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2006 www.
com Job: 7315 LONMIN REP back AW.
indd Proof: 12 Proof Read by: Operator: Dave Date: 23 11 2006 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Rob First Read Revisons Notes 88 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2006
