LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 39 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The principal accounting policies adopted in the and in accordance with the guidance in IFRS 2, expenses as exceptional items, where the nature preparation of the financial statements are set Share-based payment, has only applied the of the item, or its size, is likely to be material so standard to equity instruments granted after as to assist the user of the financial statements out below.
These policies have been consistently 7 November 2002. to better understand the results of the applied to all years presented, unless otherwise FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: The Group has operations of the Group.
taken the exemption not to restate comparatives for IAS 32, Financial Instruments: BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION BASIS OF PREPARATION Disclosure and Presentation, and IAS 39, The consolidated financial statements The consolidated financial statements have been Financial Instruments: Recognition and prepared in accordance with International incorporate the financial statements of the Measurement.
Comparative information Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted Company and entities controlled by the Group.
presented for the year ended 27 February by the European Union and International 2005 has been presented as previously under Control is achieved where the Group has the Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee UK GAAP.
power to govern the financial and operating IFRIC and with those parts of the Companies PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT: The policies of an investee entity so as to obtain Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting Group has retained the UK GAAP carrying benefits from its activities.
Control is normally under IFRS.
The Group has complied with those value of property, plant and equipment and evidenced when the Company either directly or IFRS or IFRIC interpretations where the has elected not to use the fair value as indirectly owns more than 50% of the voting implementation date is relevant to the financial deemed cost of these items.
rights or potential voting rights of a companys year ended 2 March 2006 but has not early share capital.
adopted other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations.
Reconciliations to assist in understanding the nature and value of the differences between UK BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The financial statements of the Company as an GAAP and IFRS are given in note 36, presenting entity continue to be prepared under United Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business the balance sheets at transition date as at Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting combinations are accounted for using the 1 March 2004 and at the prior year end Principles and are presented separately from purchase method acquisition accounting.
27 February 2005 together with the these consolidated financial statements refer to The cost of a business combination is the Consolidated Income Statement for the year aggregate of the fair values, at the date of pages 81 to 93 within this Annual Report.
to 27 February 2005. exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, equity instruments issued by the The financial statements have been prepared on ALTERNATIVE PRESENTATION WITHIN THE acquirer and any costs directly attributable to the historical cost basis, except for derivative CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT the business combination.
financial instruments that have been measured at The Group has presented separately, on the their fair value, and non-current assets and face of the Consolidated Income Statement on On acquisition of a subsidiary, the assets, disposal groups held for sale measured at their page 35, the profit from trading operations and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary fair value less costs to sell.
costs associated with the closure of properties.
are measured at their fair value at that date.
This presentation has been adopted to more The preparation of financial statements in Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the clearly distinguish the profit from ongoing conformity with generally accepted accounting identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as operations of the Group i. e. Profit from principles requires the use of estimates and goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of trading operations from those items presented assumptions that affect the reported amounts of acquisition below the fair values of the within continuing operations i. e. Exceptional identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on assets and liabilities at the date of the financial items relating to the closure of properties that acquisition is credited to the Consolidated statements and the reported amounts of relate to closed operations.
Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on These exceptional costs relating to the closure The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed managements best knowledge of the amount, of properties have arisen following the Groups of during the year are included in the event or actions, actual results may ultimately exit from Non-Core operations and the Consolidated Income Statement from the differ from those estimates.
relocation of its head office.
These items have effective date of acquisition or up to the been presented within continuing operations as effective date of disposal.
EXEMPTIONS they do not meet the criteria to be held for On first time adoption of IFRS, the Group has sale, as they were not actively marketed prior to followed the guidance outlined in IFRS 1, First All intra-group transactions, balances, income the balance sheet date, and therefore cannot be Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
presented as discontinued operations in Standards, in which a number of optional accordance with IFRS 5. exemptions to the general principle of full The Group has utilised the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 from full retrospective reclassification retrospective application are permitted.
The The presentation of Profit from trading of business combinations prior to the transition Group has adopted the following approach in operations separately on the face of the to IFRS.
As a result, the UK GAAP respect of the following key exemptions: Consolidated Income Statement is relevant to categorisation of the following transactions explain the financial performance of the ongoing has been maintained: BUSINESS COMBINATIONS: The Group has Group.
Additional information on the not reclassified business combinations prior to performance of the Group is included in the The principles of merger accounting applied the transition date.
notes to the financial statements.
on the original formation of Luminar plc.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS: The Group has adopted the exemption from full retrospective EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS The Company was entitled to merger relief application of all share-based payment awards, The Group classifies items of income and offered by section 131 of the Companies Act LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 40 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1985 in respect of the consideration received FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS loans and receivables these are nonin excess of the nominal value of equity 2005 COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL derivative financial assets with fixed or shares issued in connection with the STATEMENTS determinable payments that are not quoted acquisition of Northern Leisure Plc.
Within the 2005 comparative financial in an active market.
They arise when the statements, the Group has applied UK GAAP in Group provides goods or services directly to NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE accounting for and disclosing financial a debtor, or advances money, with no Non-current assets and disposal groups are instruments, including derivative financial intention of trading the loan or receivable.
classified as held for sale if their carrying amount Subsequent to initial recognition loans and instruments.
Financial assets and liabilities are will be recovered principally through a sale receivables are included in the balance sheet recognised on the Groups balance sheet when transaction rather than continuing use.
This at amortised cost using the effective interest the Group becomes a party to the contractual condition is regarded as met only when a sale is method less any amounts written off to provisions of the instrument.
highly probable and the asset or disposal reflect impairment, with changes in carrying group is available for immediate sale in its amount recognised in the Consolidated The Group uses derivative financial instruments present condition.
Management must be Income Statement.
This category includes primarily to manage exposures to fluctuations in committed to the sale which should be trade receivable and other debtors which interest rates.
Discounts and premiums are expected to qualify for recognition as a do not carry any interest.
charged or credited to the Consolidated Income completed sale within one year from the date of cash and cash equivalents these Statement over the life of the asset or liability to classification.
Disposal groups are groups of comprise deposits with an original maturity which they relate.
assets, and liabilities directly associated with of three months or less with banks and those assets, that are to be disposed of together financial institutions, bank balances, and cash Discounts or premiums on financial instruments as a group in a single transaction.
designated as interest rate hedges are reflected as adjustments to interest payable.
Income and Non-current assets and disposal groups classified The Groups financial liabilities are classified as expenditure arising on financial instruments is as held for sale are initially measured at the lower other financial liabilities.
These are nonrecognised on the accruals basis and credited or of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
At derivative financial liabilities with fixed or charged to the Consolidated Income Statement subsequent reporting dates non-current assets determinable payments that are not quoted in in the financial period to which it relates.
and disposal groups are remeasured to the latest an active market.
They arise when the Group estimate of fair value less costs to sell.
As a result receives goods or services directly from a Interest differentials, under which the amounts of this remeasurement any impairment is creditor or supplier, or borrows money, with and periods for which interest rates on recognised by charging to the Consolidated no intention of trading the liability.
This borrowings are varied, are reflected as Income Statement, any increase in fair value is category includes: adjustments to interest payable.
applied to reverse previous impairment charges on the non-current assets or disposal groups to a trade and other payables these are 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS maximum of the original amortised cost.
typically non-interest bearing and following Within the 2006 financial statements, the Group initial recognition are included in the balance has applied IAS 32, Financial Instruments: DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS sheet at amortised cost.
Disclosure and Presentation, and IAS 39, Financial Discontinued operations represent cash bank loans and overdrafts these are Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The generating units or groups of cash generating initially recorded at fair value based on effect of the implementation of IAS 32 and IAS units that have either been disposed of or proceeds received, net of issue costs.
39 is treated as a change in accounting policy, classified as held for sale, and represent a Finance charges are accounted for on an with effect from 28 February 2005.
The effect of separate major line of business or are part of a accruals basis and charged to the the change is outlined in note 23. single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate Consolidated Income Statement using the major line of business.
Cash generating units effective interest rate method.
Financial assets and liabilities measurement forming part of a single co-ordinated plan to basis dispose of a separate major line of business are Derivative financial instruments and hedge Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on classified within continuing operations until they accounting measurement basis the date on which the Group becomes a party meet the criteria to be held for sale.
The Groups activities expose it to the financial to the contractual provisions of the instrument risks of changes in interest rates, and the Group giving rise to the asset or liability.
Financial assets The post-tax profit or loss of the discontinued uses interest rate swaps to manage these and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value operation is classified as a single line on the face exposures.
The use of derivative financial plus transaction costs.
Any impairment of a of the Consolidated Income Statement, together instruments is governed by the Groups policies financial asset is charged to the Consolidated with any post-tax gain or loss recognised on the approved by the Board of Directors, which Income Statement when incurred.
Financial remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell or provide written principles on the use of assets are derecognised when the Groups rights on the disposal of the assets or disposal group derivative financial instruments.
to cash inflows from the asset expire: financial constituting the discontinued operation.
liabilities are derecognised when the contractual The Group does not qualify for hedge obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire.
On changes to the composition of groups of accounting for its interest rate swaps under IAS units comprising discontinued operations, the 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and presentation of discontinued operations within Financial assets are classified according to the Measurement.
These swaps are therefore prior periods is restated to reflect consistent purpose for which the asset was acquired.
The classified as financial assets or liabilities at fair classification of discontinued operations across Groups financial assets are classified as either: value through profit or loss.
They are initially all periods presented.
recognised at fair value, with fair value being LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 41 remeasured at each reporting date.
The fair PROVISIONS are not eligible for recognition as assets under value of the interest rate swaps is based on the Provisions for onerous lease commitments, IAS 38, Intangible Assets.
market price of comparable instruments at the public liability insurance claims and other balance sheet date.
Realised and unrealised gains provisions are recognised when: the Group has REVENUE RECOGNITION and losses arising from changes in fair value are a present legal or constructive obligation as a Revenue is measured at the fair value of the included in the Consolidated Income Statement result of past events: it is more likely than not consideration received or receivable and within finance costs.
Where the fair value at a that an outflow of economic benefits will be represents amounts recoverable by the Group point in time gives rise to an asset liability the required to settle the obligation: and the for goods and services provided in the normal fair value is classified on the balance sheet within amount can be measured reliably.
course of business, net of discounts, VAT and current financial assets liabilities.
GOODWILL The Group has no embedded derivatives that Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a Sale of goods are not closely related to the host instrument.
an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups Sales of goods are recognised when goods share of the net identifiable assets and liabilities are provided and the title has passed, at the Financial instruments other disclosures of the acquired business at the date of point of cash receipt.
The Groups debt financing expose it to a acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset variety of financial risks that include the effects and is reviewed for impairment at least annually, b Admission revenue of changes in the following: with goodwill allocated to cash generating units Admission revenue is recognised when the for the purpose of impairment testing at the service is provided.
Interest Rate Risk level of reportable segments.
Any impairment is Interest rate risk is managed through swapping recognised immediately in the Consolidated c Sub-lease rental income floating rate debt into fixed rate debt.
This has Income Statement and is not subsequently Sub-lease rental income is recognised on a been achieved through the purchase of a 70m reversed.
straight-line basis over the life of the related five year swap and a 65m five year swap sub-lease agreement.
callable by the counterparty after three years.
On the disposal of a subsidiary or cash generating unit, the attributable amount of d Commission income Currency Risk goodwill is included in the determination of Commission income is recognised on an The Group operates predominantly within the profit and loss on disposal.
accruals basis in accordance with the United Kingdom and substantially all transactions substance of the relevant agreement.
are denominated in sterling: therefore, the Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 March Group does not suffer from a significant 2004 the transition date to IFRS has been INTEREST INCOME concentration of currency risk.
retained at the previous UK GAAP carrying Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by values subject to being tested for impairment at reference to the principal outstanding and at the Credit risk that date.
The Group has taken the exemption effective interest rate applicable, which is the The Group does not have a significant available under IFRS 1 not to reclassify business rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash concentration of credit risk.
The Groups revenues combinations affected prior to the transition receipts through the expected life of the are predominantly cash based, with receivables date to IFRS.
financial asset to that assets net carrying principally recognised on sales of property assets amount.
and on income received from sub-lets.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquired trademarks are included at purchase DIVIDEND INCOME Liquidity risk cost and amortised over their finite useful Dividend income from investments is recognised Liquidity risk is managed through an assessment economic lives on a straight-line basis.
when the shareholders rights to receive of short, medium and long-term cash flow payment have been established.
forecasts to ensure the adequacy of committed Intangibles acquired separately and through debt facilities.
Short-term liquidity risk is business combinations, i. e. licences and other PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT managed through overdraft facilities and shortintangible assets, where material, are included at All classes of property, plant and equipment are term deposits.
cost or fair value respectively and amortised stated at cost, net of depreciation and any over their useful economic lives, being the recognised impairment losses.
Cost includes Price risk shorter of the term of the lease to which they other attributable costs, e. g. professional fees, The Group is not exposed to equity security are attached or the licence.
and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs price risk or commodity price risk.
capitalised in accordance with the Groups Acquired software assets not integral to the accounting policy.
Depreciation is not charged In addition to the financial instruments described operation of the related hardware are included during the period of construction, and in the measurement basis sections above, the at cost and amortised over their estimated finite commences when the assets are ready for their Group also has the following financial useful economic lives three years on a intended use.
instruments for which additional disclosures are straight-line basis.
included in the notes to the financial statements: Depreciation is calculated to write down the The Group does not carry out research and cost or valuation, less estimated residual value of finance lease obligations development activities that may lead to the all assets, other than land, by equal annual operating lease commitments recognition of internally generated intangible instalments over their estimated useful lives.
The Groups internally generated brands accruals represent commercially valuable intangibles but LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 42 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The periods generally applicable are: INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES Deferred tax is the tax accounted for in respect Freehold and long leasehold buildings and An associate is an entity over which the Group of temporary differences between the carrying related structural fixtures and fittings exercises, or is in a position to exercise, amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 50 years significant influence, but not control or joint statements, and the corresponding tax bases Short leasehold buildings and related control, through participation in the financial or used in the computation of taxable profit, and is structural fixtures and fittings over the operating policy of the investee.
accounted for using the balance sheet liability period of the lease method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised Other fixtures and fittings, furniture and Where material, the results and assets and for all taxable temporary differences and equipment between two years and ten liabilities of associates are incorporated in the deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent years financial statements using the equity method of it is probable that taxable profits will be available Motor vehicles three years accounting, except when these associates are against which deductible temporary differences classified as held for sale.
Investments in can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not Assets held under finance leases are depreciated associates are carried in the balance sheet at recognised if the temporary difference arises over their expected useful lives on the same cost adjusted by any material post-acquisition from the recognition of goodwill or the initial basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the changes of the net assets of the associates, less recognition other than in a business term of the relevant lease.
any impairment of value in the individual combination of other assets and liabilities in a investments.
transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor The assets residual values and useful economic the accounting profit.
lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, INVENTORIES at each balance sheet date.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and IAS 12, Income Taxes, requires that the net realisable value.
Cost is calculated using the measurement of deferred tax should have regard An assessment is made at each reporting date if first in, first out method.
to the tax consequences that would follow from there is any indication that an asset may be the manner of expected recovery or settlement, impaired.
If any indications are deemed to exist, TAXATION at the balance sheet date, of the carrying amount the relevant assets are tested for impairment.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax of its assets and liabilities.
In calculating its Any impairment is determined as the difference currently payable and deferred tax.
deferred tax liability the Groups policy is to between the higher of value-in-use, calculated regard the depreciable amount of the carrying by discounting an estimate of future cash flows The tax currently payable is based on the value of its property, plant and equipment to be by the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs recovered through continuing use in the business, capital, and fair value less costs to sell, compared from net profit as reported in the Consolidated unless included within assets held for sale where to the carrying value of the relevant asset.
Fair Income Statement because it excludes items of the policy is to regard the carrying amount as value less cost to sell is estimated by qualified income or expense that are taxable or being recoverable through sale.
surveyors and valuers and by applying the deductible in other years and it further excludes knowledge and experience of management, items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that together with external market indicators.
If the Groups liability for current tax is calculated are expected to apply in the period when the recoverable amount is less than the carrying using tax rates that have been enacted or liability is settled or the asset is realised.
value of the asset then the carrying value is substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the reduced to recoverable amount, and the Consolidated Income Statement, except when it resulting impairment charge is recognised in the Where taxation computations submitted to the relates to items charged or credited directly to Consolidated Income Statement.
taxation authorities are yet to be agreed the equity, in which case the deferred tax is also Groups estimate of tax liabilities reflects the dealt with in equity.
uncertainty as to the amount of tax that may ultimately be payable.
LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 43 LEASING Leases that are entered into following the sale EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Leases are classified as finance leases whenever of assets by the Group i. e. sale and leaseback Retirement Benefit Costs the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the transactions are classified according to the risk Payments made to defined contribution risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All and rewards of the lease.
All such arrangements retirement benefit schemes are charged as an other leases are classified as operating leases.
entered into by the Group are operating leases.
expense when they fall due.
The Group has no Where the proceeds on sale of the asset defined benefit or other retirement benefit Assets held under finance leases are recognised exceed the assets fair value, and the asset is schemes.
as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if leased back as an operating lease, any surplus lower, at the present value of the minimum over the fair value is treated as deferred income Share-based compensation lease payments, each determined at the and recognised in the Consolidated Income The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS inception of the lease.
The corresponding Statement over the term of the lease on a 2, Share-based payment.
In accordance with the liability to the lessor is included in the balance straight-line basis.
transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease to all grants of equity instruments after payments are apportioned between finance SEGMENTAL REPORTING 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of charges and reduction of the lease obligation so A business segment is a group of assets and 1 January 2005. as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the operations engaged in providing products or remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges services that are subject to risks and returns that The Group issues some equity instruments are recognised in the Consolidated Income are different from those of other business where the counterparty has choice of either Statement within finance costs, unless they are segments.
A geographical segment is a cash or equity settlement, and some equity directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which distinguishable component of an entity that instruments where the settlement can only be in case they are capitalised in accordance with the provides products or services within a particular equity.
Groups accounting policy on borrowing costs.
economic environment and that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of Equity-settled share-based payments are Rentals payable under operating leases are components operating in other economic measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The charged to income on a straight-line basis over environments.
fair value determined at grant date is expensed the term of the relevant lease.
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, Business segments have been designated as the based on the Groups estimate of the shares Benefits received and receivable as an incentive primary segment as these segments reflect the that will actually vest, with a corresponding to enter into an operating lease are included dominant source and nature of the Groups credit entry directly to equity reserves.
Fair value within deferred income and recognised in the returns and is consistent with the internal is measured by means of a binomial model.
Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line reporting structure of the Group.
The Group basis over the lease term.
Premiums paid on has only one geographic segment, being the UK, A liability is recognised at current fair value at entering into the lease of certain leasehold land as no regions of the UK expose the Group to each balance sheet date for cash settled shareand buildings are classified as other non-current differentiated risks and returns.
based payments, with changes in the fair value assets and amortised to the Consolidated Income recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the life of the relevant lease.
Borrowing costs are capitalised as part of the Leased assets that are sub-let to third parties are cost of an asset when they are directly classified according to their substance as either attributable to the acquisition, construction or finance or operating leases.
All such production of a qualifying asset, it is probable arrangements the Group have entered into as that they will result in future economic benefits lessor are operating leases.
Income received as to the enterprise, and the cost can be measured lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over reliably, until such time as the assets are the lease term and is classified in the substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Consolidated Income Statement as revenue.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
