LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 95 EXPLANATION OF RESOLUTIONS This is an important document.
RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY TO ALLOT ACTION TO BE TAKEN anything you do not understand, please contact SHARES Whether or not you intend to attend the an appropriate professional adviser.
ITEMS 8 AND 9 ON THE AGENDA Annual General Meeting, you are requested to The existing authorities given to the complete the enclosed form of proxy and 1.
DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS Directors at the last Annual General return it to the Companys Registrars, Lloyds ITEM 1 ON THE AGENDA Meeting to allot unissued share capital and TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West The Directors are required to present to to allot shares for cash in limited Sussex, BN99 6DA as soon as possible and in the meeting the Directors and Auditors circumstances expire on 18 July 2006.
It is any event so as to be received no later than 48 reports and the accounts for the year ended proposed that further authorities be granted hours before the time appointed for the Annual 2 March 2006. which shall expire on the earlier of the date General Meeting.
The completion and of the next Annual General Meeting to be submission of a form of proxy will not prevent 2.
CONSIDER AND ADOPT THE REPORT held after the passing of the resolution and you from attending and voting in person if you ON REMUNERATION the date falling fifteen months after the so wish.
ITEM 2 ON THE AGENDA passing of the resolution.
An ordinary In accordance with recommended best resolution item 8 will be proposed to RECOMMENDATION practice, the Directors are presenting the authorise the Directors to allot unissued Your Board believes that the proposed Report of the Remuneration Committee for share capital up to an aggregate nominal resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the approval.
The Report is set out on pages 26 amount of 6,037,035 being 24,148,141 best interests of shareholders as a whole and, to 30. ordinary shares of 25p each representing accordingly, recommends that shareholders vote approximately 33% of the share capital in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors 3.
DECLARATION OF DIVIDEND currently in issue.
A special resolution item intend to do in respect of their own beneficial ITEM 3 ON THE AGENDA 9 will be proposed authorising the shareholdings in the Company.
The proposed final dividend of 10.74p per Directors to allot shares in connection with ordinary share will be paid on 20 July 2006 a pre-emptive issue to existing shareholders ATTENDANCE AND VOTING to shareholders who are on the Register of or for cash up to 914,702 being As a shareholder of Luminar plc, you have the Members as at the close of business on approximately 5% of the share capital right to attend and vote at the Annual General 16 June 2006.
This dividend is in addition to currently in issue.
There are no present Meeting.
the interim dividend of 4.44p per ordinary plans to issue shares, except as required to share, which was paid on 6 January 2006. satisfy the exercise of options or warrants Please bring with you the accompanying form of The shares will become ex dividend on under the Companys employee share proxy admission card.
It will authenticate your 14 June 2006. incentive schemes.
right to attend, speak and vote and will speed your admission.
Please keep it until the end of 4.
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN the meeting.
The meeting will commence at ITEMS 4 AND 5 ON THE AGENDA SHARES 2.30pm and refreshments will be available from Article 87 of the Companys Articles of ITEM 10 ON THE AGENDA 2.00pm.
Association states that any Director who has The special resolution proposed at item 10 not been appointed or reappointed at either would authorise the Company to acquire its You may also find it helpful to bring your Annual of the Companys last two Annual General own shares subject to the constraints set Report with you so that you can refer to it at Meetings should retire.
Nick Beighton was out in the resolution.
The Directors would the meeting.
appointed on 1 August 2005 and is offering exercise this power only if satisfied that it himself for re-election.
Keith Hamill is was in the interests of the shareholders as a If you do not wish, or are unable, to attend, you retiring and offering himself for re-election whole to do so and that it was likely to may appoint either the Chairman of the meeting under this provision.
result in an increase in earnings per share.
or someone else of your choice to act on your Any shares purchased in accordance with behalf and to vote in the event of a poll.
APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION this authority will subsequently be cancelled.
person is known as a proxy.
You can use the OF AUDITORS enclosed form of proxy to appoint a proxy.
ITEMS 6 AND 7 ON THE AGENDA As at 12 April 2002, options and warrants This resolution proposes the reappointment were outstanding to subscribe for a total A proxy need not be a shareholder and may of  LLP as the number of 6,416,544 ordinary shares, or attend and vote on a poll on behalf of the Companys auditors, and permits the 8.77% of the Companys issued share capital.
shareholder who appointed him or her.
Directors to fix their remuneration.
If this authority to purchase shares is ever used in full, the proportion of issued share At the meeting, the proxy can act for the capital represented by this figure would member he or she represents.
right to join in or demand a poll, but it does not include the right to vote on a show of hands.
The proxy is valid for any adjournment of the meeting.
LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 96 EXPLANATION OF RESOLUTIONS CONTINUED Please tick the appropriate box alongside each NOTES resolution to indicate whether you wish your 1.
Any member entitled to attend and vote at votes to be cast for or against that this meeting may appoint one or more resolution.
Unless you give specific instructions proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his on how you wish to vote on a particular behalf.
A proxy need not be a member.
resolution, your proxy will be able, at his or her discretion, either to vote for or against that 2.
Instruments appointing proxies must be resolution or to abstain from voting.
received by the Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours before the time the Before posting the form of proxy to the meeting is to be held.
Registrars, please check that you have signed it.
In the case of joint holders, either of you may 3.
For the purpose of determining entitlement sign it.
to attend and vote at the meeting, the name of the member must be entered on the To be effective, the form of proxy must be register of members at 8.30am on 17 July received by the Companys Registrars at the 2006.
If you have recently sold or address shown above by no later than 8.30am transferred all of your shares in the on 17 July 2006.
Any form of proxy received Company please send this notice and the after this time will be declared void.
accompanying form of proxy form to the broker who sold your shares for you.
The broker can then send them to the new owner of the shares.
The following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the Companys registered office and at the offices of CMS Cameron McKenna at 160 Aldersgate Street, London, EC1A 4DD from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting: a The Register of Directors and their families interests in the share capital of the Company.
b Copies of all Directors service contracts for periods in excess of one year with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
c The existing Memorandum and Articles of Association.
