LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 82 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF PREPARATION BASIS OF IMPAIRMENT 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS These financial statements present financial On an annual basis the Company performs a Within the 2006 financial statements, the information for Luminar plc as a separate entity, review of its investments to determine whether Company has applied FRS 25, Financial and are prepared in accordance with the there have been any impairment trigger events.
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS historical cost convention, the Companies Act If such a trigger event is noted then the 26, Financial Instruments: Recognition and 1985 and United Kingdom Accounting recoverable amount of the asset, or where Measurement.
The effect of the adoption of Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting appropriate group of assets, in cash generating these standards has been treated as a change in Practice.
The Companys consolidated financial units that comprise the investment is estimated accounting policy, with effect from 28 February statements, prepared in accordance with and compared to the carrying amount of the 2005.
The effect of the change is outlined in the International Financial Reporting Standards as asset.
Recoverable amount is the higher of the note 13. adopted by the European Union, are separately value-in-use to the Company of the asset and presented.
The principal accounting policies the net realisable value from disposal of the Financial assets and liabilities measurement adopted in these Company financial statements asset.
Value-in-use is estimated by calculating the basis are set out below and, unless otherwise net present value of the estimated future cash Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on indicated, have been consistently applied for all flows relating to the cash generating units that the date on which the Company becomes a periods presented.
comprise the investment after applying a party to the contractual provisions of the discount factor.
Net realisable value is estimated instrument giving rise to the asset or liability.
The Company has adopted FRS 20, Share-based by applying the knowledge and experience of Financial assets and liabilities are initially payment, FRS 21, Events after the balance sheet management, together with external market recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Any date, FRS 25, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and indicators.
If the recoverable amount is below impairment of a financial asset is charged to the presentation and FRS 26, Financial Instruments: the carrying value of the asset then the carrying income statement when incurred.
Financial assets Measurement during the year ended 2 March value of the asset is reduced to recoverable are derecognised when the Companys rights to 2006.
The effect of the adoption of FRS 20 and amount, and the resulting charge is taken to the cash inflows from the asset expire: financial FRS 21 has been treated as a change in profit and loss account.
liabilities are derecognised when the contractual accounting policy with effect from 1 March obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire.
The Company has also adopted FRS 23, RETIREMENT BENEFIT COSTS The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates Payments made to defined contribution Financial assets are classified according to the and FRS 28, Corresponding amounts.
However, retirement benefit schemes are charged as an purpose for which the asset was acquired.
The neither standards adoption has affected these expense when they fall due.
The Company has Companys financial assets are classified as financial statements.
no other retirement benefit schemes.
either: In accordance with the transitional requirements of FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS loans and receivables these are nonFRS 25 and FRS 26, the adoption of these 2005 comparative financial statements derivative financial assets with fixed or standards has been treated as a change in The Company has taken the exemption not to determinable payments that are not quoted accounting policy with effect from 28 February restate comparatives for FRS 25, Financial in an active market.
Instruments: Disclosure and presentation and FRS 26, Company provides goods or services Financial Instruments: Measurement.
Comparative directly to a debtor, or advances money, The effect of the adoption of the FRSs during information presented for the year to 27 February with no intention of trading the loan or the period on net assets and profits is outlined 2005 has been presented as previously under FRS receivable.
Subsequent to initial recognition in note 13.
4, Capital Instruments and FRS 13, Derivatives and loans and receivables are included in the other financial instruments: disclosures.
balance sheet at amortised cost using the In accordance with FRS 18, the Directors have effective interest method less any amounts reviewed the accounting policies of the Group The Company uses derivative financial written off to reflect impairment, with as set out below and consider them to be instruments, primarily to manage exposures to changes in carrying amount recognised in appropriate.
Discounts and the income statement.
This category premiums are charged or credited to the profit includes amounts owed by Group TURNOVER and loss account over the life of the asset or undertakings.
Turnover is the total amount receivable by the liability to which they relate.
cash and cash equivalents these Company for management and other services comprise deposits with an original maturity provided to other Group companies, excluding Discounts or premiums on financial instruments of three months or less with banks and VAT, and is recognised on performance of these designated as interest rate hedges are reflected financial institutions, bank balances, and cash services.
as adjustments to interest payable.
expenditure arising on financial instruments is INVESTMENTS recognised on the accruals basis and credited or The Companys financial liabilities are classified Investments in subsidiary undertakings and charged to the profit and loss account in the as other financial liabilities.
These are nonassociates are stated at cost less amounts financial period to which it relates.
derivative financial liabilities with fixed or written off for impairment.
Amounts advanced determinable payments that are not quoted in to subsidiary undertakings with no intention of Interest differentials, under which the amounts an active market.
They arise when the Company being repaid in the foreseeable future are and periods for which interest rates on receives goods or services directly from a classified as investments.
borrowing are varied, are reflected as creditor or supplier, or borrows money, with no adjustments to interest payable.
intention of trading the liability.
This category includes: LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 83 Currency Risk ISSUE COSTS trade and other payables these are The Company operates predominantly within Costs directly related with establishing loan typically non-interest bearing and following the United Kingdom and substantially all finance are offset against the value of the loan.
initial recognition are included in the balance transactions are denominated in sterling: Such costs are amortised over the period of the sheet at amortised cost.
therefore, the Group does not suffer from a loan with the resulting charge being recognised bank loans and overdrafts these are significant concentration of currency risk.
initially recorded at fair value based on proceeds received, net of issue costs.
Credit risk TAXATION Finance charges are accounted for on an The Company does not have a significant UK corporation tax is provided at amounts accruals basis and charged to the income concentration of credit risk.
All receivables arise expected to be paid or recovered using the statement using the effective interest rate from transactions in the ordinary course of tax rates and laws that have been enacted or method.
substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge Liquidity risk Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all accounting measurement basis Liquidity risk is managed through an assessment timing differences that have originated but not The Companys activities expose it to the of short, medium and long-term cash flow reversed at the balance sheet date, where financial risks of changes in interest rates, and forecasts to ensure the adequacy of committed transactions or events that result in an obligation the Company uses interest rate swaps to debt facilities.
Short-term liquidity risk is to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay manage these exposures.
The use of derivative managed through overdraft facilities and shortless tax in the future, have occurred at the financial instruments is governed by the term deposits.
Timing differences are Companys policies approved by the Board of differences between the Companys taxable Directors, which provide written principles on Price risk profits and its results as stated in the Financial the use of derivative financial instruments.
The Company is not exposed to equity security Statements that arise from the inclusion of gains price risk or commodity price risk.
and losses in tax assessments in periods different The Company does not qualify for hedge from those in which they are recognised in the accounting for its interest rate swaps under FRS SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS financial statements.
26, Financial Instruments: Recognition and The Company has applied the requirements of Measurement.
These swaps are therefore FRS 20, Share-based payment.
In accordance A net deferred tax asset is regarded as classified as financial assets or liabilities at fair with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been recoverable and therefore recognised only value through profit or loss.
They are initially applied to all grants of equity instruments after when, on the basis of all available evidence, it recognised at fair value, with fair value being 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of can be regarded as more likely than not that remeasured each reporting date.
The fair value 1 January 2005. there will be suitable taxable profits from which of the interest rate swaps is based on the the future reversal of the underlying timing market price of comparable instruments at the Where equity instruments are granted to differences can be deducted.
Realised and unrealised gains employees of subsidiary undertakings for the and losses arising from changes in fair value are services provided by the employees to those Deferred tax is measured at the average tax included in the income statement.
Where the companies, the fair value at the grant date of rates and laws that are expected to apply in the fair value at a point in time gives rise to an asset the equity instrument represents an additional periods in which the timing differences are liability the fair value is classified on the balance investment in the subsidiary undertaking by the expected to reverse, based on tax rates and sheet within current financial assets liabilities.
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax The Company has no embedded derivatives The Company issues some equity instruments assets and liabilities recognised have not been that are not closely related to the host where the counterparty has choice of either discounted.
cash or equity settlement, and some equity instruments where the settlement can only be in BORROWING COSTS Financial instruments other disclosures equity.
All borrowing costs are recognised as an The Companys debt financing and other expense in the period in which they are activities expose it to a variety of financial risks Equity-settled share-based payments are incurred.
that include the effects of changes in the measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The following: fair value determined at grant date is expensed DIVIDENDS PAYABLE on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, The Company has adopted FRS 21, Events after Interest Rate Risk based on the Companys estimate of the shares the Balance Sheet Date in these financial Interest rate risk on debt financing is managed that will actually vest.
Fair value is measured by statements.
Proposed dividends are not through swapping floating rate debt into fixed means of a binomial model.
recorded as liabilities until the period in which rate debt.
This has been achieved through the they are approved and authorised by purchase of a 70m five year swap and a 65m A liability equal to the portion of the goods or shareholders.
five year swap callable by the counterparty after services received is recognised at the current fair three years.
value at each balance sheet date for cash settled share-based payments.
