LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 94 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the tenth Annual previously renewed, varied or revoked by such expiry and the Directors may allot General Meeting of Luminar plc will be held at the Company, save that the Company may equity securities pursuant to such offer or the offices of CMS Cameron McKenna, before such expiry make an offer or arrangement as if the power conferred 160 Aldersgate Street, London, EC1A 4DD on agreement which would or might require hereby had not expired.
Tuesday 18 July 2006 at 2.30pm for the relevant securities to be allotted after such transaction of the following business: expiry and the Directors may allot relevant 10.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the securities in pursuance of such offer or following resolution as a special resolution: ORDINARY BUSINESS agreement as if the authority conferred 1.
To receive the audited accounts for the year hereby had not expired.
THAT, subject to the Companys Articles of ended 2 March 2006 together with the Association from time to time, the reports of the Directors and the Auditors 9.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the Company be and is hereby generally and thereon.
following resolution as a special resolution: unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 2.
To approve the Directors Report on THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 8 to make one or more market purchases Remuneration.
above, the Directors be and are hereby within the meaning of section 163 3 of empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the that Act of its own ordinary shares on such 3.
To declare a final dividend of 10.74p per Companies Act 1985 to allot equity terms and in such manner as the Directors ordinary share.
securities within the meaning of Section 94 shall determine, provided that: of that Act for cash pursuant to the 4.
To elect Nick Beighton as a Director.
authority conferred by resolution 8 as if suba the maximum aggregate number of section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to ordinary shares hereby authorised to be 5.
To re-elect Keith Hamill as a Director.
any such allotment, provided that this power purchased is 7,317,618 representing shall be limited: approximately 10% of the Companys SPECIAL BUSINESS issued ordinary share capital: 6.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the a to the allotment of equity securities in following resolution, special notice having connection with an issue in favour of b the maximum price which may be paid been received of the intention to propose ordinary shareholders on a fixed record for each ordinary share is an amount the resolution as an ordinary resolution: date whether by way of a rights issue, equal to 105% of the average of the open offer or otherwise where the closing mid market prices for the THAT  LLP be equity securities attributable to such ordinary shares of the Company appointed as auditor of the Company to ordinary shareholders are proportionate derived from the London Stock hold office until the conclusion of the next as nearly as may be to the respective Exchange Daily Official List for the five general meeting at which accounts are laid number of ordinary shares held by them business days immediately preceding the before the Company.
on such record date, but subject to such date of purchase and the minimum price exclusions or other arrangements as the per ordinary share is the nominal value 7.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the Directors may deem necessary or thereof exclusive of any expenses following resolution, as an ordinary expedient to deal with fractional payable by the Company: and resolution: entitlements, legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the c unless previously renewed, varied or THAT the Directors be authorised to agree requirements of any regulatory body or revoked, the authority hereby given shall the auditors remuneration.
stock exchange or any other matter expire on the earlier of the conclusion whatsoever: and of the next Annual General Meeting of 8.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the the Company to be held after the following resolution as an ordinary b to the allotment otherwise than passing of this resolution and the date resolution: pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of falling twelve months after the passing of equity securities up to an aggregate this resolution, save that the Company THAT the Directors be and are hereby nominal value of 914,702: may make any purchase of ordinary generally and unconditionally authorised to shares after the expiry of such authority exercise all the powers of the Company to and shall expire on the earlier of the in execution of a contract of purchase allot relevant securities within the meaning conclusion of the next Annual General that was made under and before the of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 Meeting of the Company to be held after expiry of such authority.
up to an aggregate nominal amount of the passing of this resolution and the date 6,037,035 and that this authority shall falling fifteen months after the passing of this By order of the Board expire on the earlier of the conclusion of resolution unless previously renewed, varied the next Annual General Meeting of the or revoked by the Company save that the Company to be held after the passing of this Company may before such expiry make an HARRY WILLITS resolution and the date falling 15 months offer or arrangement which would or might Company Secretary after the passing of this resolution unless require equity securities to be allotted after 17 May 2006
