ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REVIEW At a glance Our safety efforts will be redoubled Meeting our wider We achieved a big improvement in participation in voluntary counselling and testing for HIV AIDS responsibilities We are launching a more advanced version of our Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox Clean coal energy alliance formed with Shell Rigorous safety reviews, which will inform the next phase of our safety programme, are being undertaken across the Group Safety our leading priority the Anglo Safety Way, was training and management of tested and to confront their After several years of signi cant launched which stressed the goal contractors: more rigour in status.
At our South African progress in reducing our fatal of zero harm, the importance of determining the root causes of operations, the level of injury frequency rate FIFR, learning from incidents so as to incidents through better incident participation in VCT increased the last quarter of 2006 was prevent repeats, and that safety investigation: training and from 30% to 58% during 2006. marred by a higher incidence standards are non-negotiable.
competence issues to be more At Anglo Coal South Africa of fatalities.
Thus the number This framework was effectively addressed: and a participation in VCT is now in of fatalities in our managed implemented across the more single minded approach excess of 80% with indications operations fell only slightly from organisation during 2006, to enforcing existing rules that the treatment programme 46 in 2005 to 44 in 2006. augmented by an active and standards.
is becoming self nancing Of these, 29 were employees communications programme, through reduced loss of skills, and 15 were contractors and, including high pro le industrial There has been undoubted less absenteeism and fewer unusually, three were the result theatre at our South African progress in building a safety new infections.
6,400 managerial culture at site level, but much 44 fatalities, 12 occurred in and supervisory staff, including still remains to be done.
Our community partnerships businesses that have been all senior management, have at eight South African sites divested or are no longer undergone comprehensive HIV AIDS a big increase continued to be highly effective managed within the Group.
training in the new framework.
in voluntary counselling in addressing prevention among and testing young people.
In 2006, we The Board and senior management Safety peer reviews were Deaths from HIV AIDS continue also became partners with remain determined that this undertaken at 20 sites.
These to exact a heavy toll in many international donors, Virgin and performance will improve and that will inform the next phase of parts of southern Africa.
In the public health service, in an all loss of life must be eliminated.
our safety programme with 2002, we initiated our strategy ambitious capacity building a particular focus on five of encouraging voluntary project in the rural area of It is pleasing that the number consistent themes: a more counselling and testing VCT Bushbuckridge.
of operations operating without rigorous approach to risk and the provision of antilost time injury increased during management and the retrovirals at the correct stage of Engaging with local 2006.
At the end of 2005, management of change: greater infection.
Since then the South communities a new set of rules and principles, attention to the selection, African public health service has One of the major challenges initiated an increasingly effective for modern mining operations programme with which we seek is to ensure that they command to partner.
a continuing social licence to operate and play a part in At the end of 2006, over 4,500 creating sustainable bene ts for employees including AngloGold local communities.
To this end, Ashanti were in receipt of antiin 2004 we initiated a leading retroviral therapy up over 40% edge methodology for assisting on 2005.
Moreover, increasing our operations to improve the numbers were willing to be management of their social and Left: The One safety campaign at the Johannesburg corporate of ce was $50.3 m launched with an donated to community causes in 2006 industrial theatre presentation in August 2006 See also Anglo American at a glance IFC Chairmans statement p02 CEOs statement p04 BUSINESS FOCUS Anglo American and its subsidiaries contributed $50.3 million to community causes in 2006 One of the objectives of the SocioTransparency International, Children economic impacts.
The SocioTackling the climate Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT of the Andes, Star sh and Engineers Economic Assessment Toolbox change challenge programme has been to focus without Borders.
Anglo American was SEAT consists of assessment We are an intensive user of management attention on the delighted to support what has become tools and a series of rigorous energy and one of the worlds developmental impacts of our core the National Gallerys most popular stakeholder identi cation and major coal producers.
Nonetheless, social exhibition ever From Manet to Picasso.
engagement tools to identify an important and inescapable investment has an important role to play priorities, needs and concerns.
role in meeting the energy needs in supporting partnerships and good In South Africa, where some two thirds The operation then discusses the of many countries, especially in causes especially at site level.
of our social investment was disbursed, issues raised with stakeholders the developing world.
We the Anglo American Chairmans Fund and commits to speci c recognise that we must play our In 2006 we devoted $50.3 million to was once again widely recognised for the management responses to part in addressing climate change social investments, compared with quality of its programmes by its peers.
improve its performance and through improving our energy $57.6 million in 2005.
The biggest single Its key recipients included Cotlands, publishes a summary report to ef ciency and working with element in accounting for that decline is which provides care for HIV orphans, all local stakeholders.
others to develop and implement the change in the accounting treatment the Mbweli Secondary School a highly clean coal technologies.
of AngloGold Ashanti, whose successful educational partnership in SEAT has now been implemented contribution of $9 million was no longer Limpopo Province and the Field Band at more than 50 Anglo American In 2006 we formed the Synergy included in our Group gures after Foundation.
sites in 16 countries, with more Alliance with Shell to work on April 2006. than 250 managers having been potential clean coal projects, In South America, the focus for new trained to implement the process.
including the Monash project During 2006 we established the Anglo programmes in Chile was around SEAT has received extensive in Australia.
If implemented, American Group Foundation to disburse enterprise development, including international recognition.
It has Monash would involve the grants at a head of ce level.
The most through new initiatives with NGOs assisted operations to gasi cation of our coal reserves prominent bene ciaries of these grants Casa fide la Paz and the Fondo Esperanza understand local communities in Victorias Latrobe Valley into were CARE, Sight Savers International, on micro finance.
better: to improve the quality of clean transport fuels and the their Community Engagement capture and storage of up to Plans: to form partnerships with 13 million tonnes of CO 2 governments and community equivalent annually.
We have based groups: to address also joined the FutureGen publicproblems and to enhance their private industrial alliance which positive impacts in areas such is seeking to develop a near zero as enterprise development, emissions coal fuelled power social investment, training generation plant in the US.
We have also been making good In 2006, we undertook a progress towards achieving our signi cant revision of the SEAT target of 15% energy savings by manual.
During 2007, we plan to 2014 against a 2004 baseline roll out the revised process which through site level projects and includes additional tools on intensive programmes to share topics like con ict prevention, experience and best practice.
grievance procedures, community health, working with international donors and water and energy projects.
Above: Anglo American Chile supported a beekeeping programme during 2006 LTIFR and FIFR Rising uptake in VCT LTIFR FIFR % employees in risk areas 66% 2.5 0.04 2.0 0.03 1.5 31% 0.02 Voluntary 1.0 21% Left: Anglo counselling and 0.01 0.5 Americans lost time testing and fatal injury 0 0 frequency rates Weighted average 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 04 05 06 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 | 23
