ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies The Groups share of associates net income is based on their most recent audited Basis of preparation financial statements or unaudited interim statements drawn up to the Groups The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial balance sheet date.
Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC interpretations adopted for use by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies The total carrying values of investments in associates represent the cost of each reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical investment including the carrying value of goodwill, the share of post acquisition cost convention as modi ed by the recording of pension assets and liabilities and the retained earnings, any other movements in reserves and any long term debt interests revaluation of biological assets and certain financial instruments.
A summary of the which in substance form part of the Groups net investment.
The carrying values principal Group accounting policies is set out with an explanation of changes to previous of associates are reviewed on a regular basis and if an impairment in value has policies following adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations in the year.
occurred, it is written off in the period in which those circumstances are identi ed.
The Groups share of an associates losses in excess of its interest in that associate The details of the elections made on conversion to IFRS were set out in the is not recognised unless the Group has an obligation to fund such losses.
Joint venture entities The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted A joint venture entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long term interest and accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect shares joint control over the strategic, financial and operating decisions with one or the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash ows of amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
such jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate consolidation.
Proportionate consolidation combines the Groups share of the results of the joint Details of the Groups signi cant accounting policies and critical accounting estimates venture entity on a line by line basis with similar items in the Groups financial are set out in the operating and financial review and form part of these financial statements.
statements: these are set out on pages 9 to 55.
Joint venture operations Signi cant areas of management uncertainty include: The Group has contractual arrangements with other participants to engage in joint activities other than through a separate entity.
The Group includes its assets, useful economic lives of assets and ore resources estimates: liabilities, expenditure and its share of revenue in such joint venture operations impairment of assets: with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs: and retirement bene ts.
Revenue recognition Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured at the fair Early adoption of standards and changes in accounting policies value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume The Group has adopted early with effect from 1 January 2006 the following rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
Sales of concentrate are stated standards and interpretations as at 31 December 2006: at their invoiced amount which is net of treatment and re ning charges.
A sale is recognised when the signi cant risks and rewards of ownership have passed.
This IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting is usually when title and insurance risk has passed to the customer and the goods in Hyperin ationary Economies: have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives: and Revenue from metal mining activities is based on the payable metal sold.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
Sales of certain commodities are provisionally priced such that the price is not These have not had a material impact on the Group and there have not been any settled until a predetermined future date based on the market price at that time.
other signi cant changes in accounting policies in the period.
Revenue on these sales is initially recognised when the above criteria are met at the current market price.
Provisionally priced sales are marked to market at each Basis of consolidation reporting date using the forward price for the period equivalent to that outlined in The financial statements incorporate a consolidation of the financial statements the contract.
This mark to market adjustment is recorded in revenue.
of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power Revenues from the sale of material by-products are included within revenue.
Where to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain a by-product is not regarded as signi cant, revenue may be credited against the cost bene ts from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to and at the effective interest rate applicable.
the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, joint ventures receive payment have been established.
and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
Intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated Business combinations and goodwill arising thereon on consolidation, where appropriate.
At the date of acquisition, the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, joint venture entity or an associate which can be measured reliably For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, share of the net assets and pro t for the are recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of financial year is attributed to the minority interests as shown on the consolidated the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identi able net assets acquired is income statement and balance sheet.
Any losses applicable to the minority attributed to goodwill.
Provisional fair values are nalised within 12 months of the interests in excess of the total recognised minority interests are allocated against acquisition date.
the interests of the parent until such time as future pro ts have exceeded the losses previously absorbed.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included within intangible assets.
Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value of Associates the associate.
Associates are investments over which the Group is in a position to exercise signi cant in uence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the Where the fair values of the identi able net assets acquired exceeds the cost of the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Typically the Group owns acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on the acquisition, is credited between 20% and 50% of the voting equity of its associates.
Investments in to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting except when classi ed as held for sale.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, minority interests are initially recorded at the minorities proportion of the fair values for the assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition.
92 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006
