ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies The Groups share of associates net income is based on their most recent audited Basis of preparation financial statements or unaudited interim statements drawn up to the Groups The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial balance sheet date.
Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC interpretations adopted for use by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies The total carrying values of investments in associates represent the cost of each reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical investment including the carrying value of goodwill, the share of post acquisition cost convention as modi ed by the recording of pension assets and liabilities and the retained earnings, any other movements in reserves and any long term debt interests revaluation of biological assets and certain financial instruments.
A summary of the which in substance form part of the Groups net investment.
The carrying values principal Group accounting policies is set out with an explanation of changes to previous of associates are reviewed on a regular basis and if an impairment in value has policies following adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations in the year.
occurred, it is written off in the period in which those circumstances are identi ed.
The Groups share of an associates losses in excess of its interest in that associate The details of the elections made on conversion to IFRS were set out in the is not recognised unless the Group has an obligation to fund such losses.
Joint venture entities The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted A joint venture entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long term interest and accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect shares joint control over the strategic, financial and operating decisions with one or the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash ows of amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
such jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate consolidation.
Proportionate consolidation combines the Groups share of the results of the joint Details of the Groups signi cant accounting policies and critical accounting estimates venture entity on a line by line basis with similar items in the Groups financial are set out in the operating and financial review and form part of these financial statements.
statements: these are set out on pages 9 to 55.
Joint venture operations Signi cant areas of management uncertainty include: The Group has contractual arrangements with other participants to engage in joint activities other than through a separate entity.
The Group includes its assets, useful economic lives of assets and ore resources estimates: liabilities, expenditure and its share of revenue in such joint venture operations impairment of assets: with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs: and retirement bene ts.
Revenue recognition Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured at the fair Early adoption of standards and changes in accounting policies value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume The Group has adopted early with effect from 1 January 2006 the following rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
Sales of concentrate are stated standards and interpretations as at 31 December 2006: at their invoiced amount which is net of treatment and re ning charges.
A sale is recognised when the signi cant risks and rewards of ownership have passed.
This IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting is usually when title and insurance risk has passed to the customer and the goods in Hyperin ationary Economies: have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives: and Revenue from metal mining activities is based on the payable metal sold.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
Sales of certain commodities are provisionally priced such that the price is not These have not had a material impact on the Group and there have not been any settled until a predetermined future date based on the market price at that time.
other signi cant changes in accounting policies in the period.
Revenue on these sales is initially recognised when the above criteria are met at the current market price.
Provisionally priced sales are marked to market at each Basis of consolidation reporting date using the forward price for the period equivalent to that outlined in The financial statements incorporate a consolidation of the financial statements the contract.
This mark to market adjustment is recorded in revenue.
of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power Revenues from the sale of material by-products are included within revenue.
Where to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain a by-product is not regarded as signi cant, revenue may be credited against the cost bene ts from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to and at the effective interest rate applicable.
the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, joint ventures receive payment have been established.
and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
Intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated Business combinations and goodwill arising thereon on consolidation, where appropriate.
At the date of acquisition, the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, joint venture entity or an associate which can be measured reliably For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, share of the net assets and pro t for the are recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of financial year is attributed to the minority interests as shown on the consolidated the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identi able net assets acquired is income statement and balance sheet.
Any losses applicable to the minority attributed to goodwill.
Provisional fair values are nalised within 12 months of the interests in excess of the total recognised minority interests are allocated against acquisition date.
the interests of the parent until such time as future pro ts have exceeded the losses previously absorbed.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included within intangible assets.
Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value of Associates the associate.
Associates are investments over which the Group is in a position to exercise signi cant in uence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the Where the fair values of the identi able net assets acquired exceeds the cost of the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Typically the Group owns acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on the acquisition, is credited between 20% and 50% of the voting equity of its associates.
Investments in to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting except when classi ed as held for sale.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, minority interests are initially recorded at the minorities proportion of the fair values for the assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition.
92 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 1.
Accounting policies continued Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Impairments Tangible assets of goodwill are not subsequently reversed.
Mining properties and leases include the cost of acquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights.
Research and exploration expenditure Research and exploration expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Mining properties are depreciated down to their residual values using the unit When a decision is taken that a mining property is economically feasible and should be of production method based on proven and probable reserves.
Depreciation is developed for commercial production, all further directly attributable, pre-production charged on new mining ventures from the date that the mining property is capable expenditure is capitalised within tangible assets.
Capitalisation of pre-production of commercial production.
When there is little likelihood of a mineral right being expenditure ceases when the mining property is capable of commercial production.
exploited, or the value of the exploitable mineral right has diminished below cost, a write down to the recoverable amount is charged to the income statement.
Capitalised pre-production expenditure prior to commercial production is assessed for impairment in accordance with the Group accounting policy stated above.
For open pit operations the removal of overburden or waste ore is required to obtain access to the orebody.
The costs associated with this process known as stripping Biological assets: afforestation and other agricultural activity which are incurred during the production phase are deferred and charged to operating Afforestation and other agricultural assets are measured at their fair values less costs using the expected average stripping ratio over the average life of the area estimated selling costs during the period of biological transformation, from initial being mined.
The average stripping ratio is calculated as the number of tonnes of recognition up to the point of harvest.
The fair values are determined based on waste material expected to be removed during the life of mine, per tonne of ore current market prices for the assets in their present location and condition.
The average life of mine cost per tonne is calculated as the total expected costs to be incurred to mine the orebody divided by the number of tonnes expected Changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement within other gains and to be mined.
The average life of mine stripping ratio and the average life of mine losses for the period between planting and harvest.
At point of harvest, the carrying cost per tonne is recalculated annually in light of additional knowledge and changes value of afforestation and other agricultural assets is transferred to inventory.
The cost of stripping in any period will therefore be re ective of the average stripping rates for the orebody as a whole.
Changes in the life of mine Directly attributable costs incurred during the period of biological transformation stripping ratio are accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate.
are capitalised and the associated cash ows are presented within cash ows from investing activities in the cash ow statement.
Land and properties in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended Inventory use.
Buildings and plant and equipment are depreciated down to their residual values Inventory and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable at varying rates, on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives or the life of value.
The production cost of inventory includes an appropriate proportion of mine, whichever is shorter.
Estimated useful lives normally vary from up to 20 years depreciation and production overheads.
Cost is determined on the following bases: for items of plant and equipment to a maximum of 50 years for buildings.
raw materials and consumables are valued at cost on a first in, first out FIFO Residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at least annually.
basis: nished products are valued at raw material cost, labour cost and a proportion Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term of manufacturing overhead expenses: and and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
metal and coal stocks are included within nished products and are valued at average cost.
Non-mining licences and other intangibles Non-mining licences and other intangibles are measured initially at purchase cost and At precious metals operations that produce joint products, cost is allocated are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated between products according to the ratio of contribution of these metals to gross useful lives vary between three and five years.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill Retirement bene ts At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and The Group operates both fide ned bene t and fide ned contribution schemes for its intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets are employees as well as post retirement medical plans.
For fide ned contribution schemes impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated the amount charged to the income statement is the contributions paid or payable in order to determine the extent of the impairment, if any.
Where the asset does not during the year.
generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
For fide ned bene t pension and post retirement medical plans, full actuarial An intangible asset with an inde nite useful life is tested for impairment annually and valuations are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit method whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
and updates are performed for each financial year end.
The average discount rate for the plans liabilities is based on AA rated corporate bonds of a suitable duration and Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
currency or, where there is no deep market for such bonds, based on government In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their bonds.
Pension plans assets are measured using period end market values.
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speci c to the asset for which estimates of Actuarial gains and losses, which can arise from differences between expected and future cash ows have not been adjusted.
actual outcomes or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Any increase in If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying the present value of plan liabilities expected to arise from employee service during amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable the period is charged to operating pro t. The expected return on plan assets and amount.
An impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
the expected increase during the period in the present value of plan liabilities are included in investment income and interest expense.
Where an impairment subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the bene ts are the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the average been determined had no impairment been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior period until the bene ts become vested.
A reversal of an impairment is recognised as income immediately.
The retirement bene t obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the Impairment of goodwill present value of the fide ned bene t obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the group of CGU that service costs and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting are expected to bene t from the synergies of the combination and represents the from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by the Groups Board of directors for available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Details of the CGU to which goodwill is allocated are provided in note 12.
The recoverable amount of the group of CGU to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually on a consistent date during each financial year, or when such events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 93 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Where an asset or business has been sold or is classi ed as held for sale and is either Taxation a, or part of a, single co-ordinated plan to dispose of either a separate major line of The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax charge and the movement business or geographical area of operation, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively in deferred tax.
with a view to sale, it is considered to be a discontinued operation.
Once an operation has been identi ed as discontinued, its net pro t is separately presented The tax currently payable is based on taxable pro t for the year.
Taxable pro t and comparative information is restated.
differs from net pro t as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs excludes items that are not taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax An obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs arises when is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of balance sheet date.
Such costs arising from the decommissioning of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are provided for and Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the arises.
These costs are charged against pro ts over the life of the operation, through corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable pro t and is accounted the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is created on an ongoing basis recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are during production are provided for at their net present values and charged against recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable pro ts will be available pro ts as extraction progresses.
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction other than in a or other site preparation work that result from changes in the estimated timing or business combination that affects neither the tax pro t nor accounting pro t. amount of the cash ow, or a change in the discount rate, are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset in the current period.
If a decrease in the liability Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised immediately in investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associates, except where the Group the income statement.
If the asset value is increased and there is an indication that is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the the revised carrying value is not recoverable, an impairment test is performed in temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
accordance with the accounting policy above.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date For some South African operations annual contributions are made to dedicated and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that suf cient taxable pro t environmental rehabilitation trusts to fund the estimated cost of rehabilitation will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
during and at the end of the life of the relevant mine.
The Group exercises full control of these trusts and therefore the trusts are consolidated.
The trusts assets Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period are recognised separately on the balance sheet as non-current assets at fair value.
when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or Interest earned on funds invested in the environmental rehabilitation trusts are credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited accrued on a time proportion basis and recognised as interest income.
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also taken directly to equity.
Foreign currency transactions and translation Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are booked in their functional by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets currencies at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction.
At each balance and liabilities on a net basis.
sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses Leases arising on retranslation are included in pro t or loss for the period and are classi ed In addition to lease contracts, other signi cant contracts are assessed to determine as either operating or nancing depending on the nature of the monetary item giving whether, in substance, they are or contain a lease.
This includes assessment of rise to them.
whether the arrangement is dependent on use of a speci c asset and right to use that asset is conveyed through the contract.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at exchange rates prevailing Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement in equal on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average annual amounts over the lease term.
exchange rates for the period where these approximate the rates at the dates of transactions.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classi ed within equity and Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group on inception transferred to the Groups currency translation reserve.
Exchange differences on of the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the minimum lease foreign currency loans that form part of the Groups net investment in these foreign payments derived by discounting at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The operations are offset in the currency translation reserve.
interest element of the rental is charged against pro t so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability, unless it is directly Cumulative translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the period attributable to qualifying assets, in which case it is capitalised in accordance with in which the operation they relate to is disposed of.
the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see below.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classi ed as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through Borrowing costs continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when it is highly probable and Interest on borrowings directly relating to the nancing of qualifying capital projects the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
under construction is added to the capitalised cost of those projects during the Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for construction phase, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classi cation.
intended use or sale which, in the case of mining properties, is when they are capable of commercial production.
Where funds have been borrowed speci cally Non-current assets and disposal groups are classi ed as held for sale from the date to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs these conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair incurred.
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, value less costs to sell.
Any resulting impairment is reported through the income the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to statement as a special item.
On classi cation as held for sale the assets are no relevant general borrowings of the Group during the period.
Comparative amounts are not adjusted.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in pro t or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
94 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 1.
Accounting policies continued Financial liabilities and equity instruments Share-based payments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classi ed and accounted for as debt or The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
In accordance equity according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at 1 January 2005. the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
The Group makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees, which Convertible debt are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
For those share schemes, excluding Convertible bonds denominated in the functional currency of the entity issuing the share options, which do not include non-market vesting conditions, the fair value shares are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of a liability and an equity is determined using the Monte Carlo method at the grant date and expensed on a component.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt and is recorded that will eventually vest.
The fair value of share options issued with non-market within borrowings.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible vesting conditions has been calculated using the Black Scholes model.
For all other bond and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded share awards, the fair value is determined by reference to the market value of the option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity.
share at the date of grant.
For all share schemes with non-market related vesting conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been taken into account when determining Where the embedded option is in a convertible bond denominated in a currency other the relevant charge.
Vesting assumptions are reviewed during each reporting period than the functional currency of the entity issuing the shares, the option is classi ed to ensure they re ect current expectations.
The option is marked to market with subsequent gains and losses being recorded through the income statement within net finance costs.
Black economic empowerment BEE transactions Where the Group disposes of a portion of a South African based subsidiary or Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the operation to a BEE Company at a discount to fair value, the transaction is considered convertible bonds where appropriate based on their relative carrying amounts at to be a share-based payment in line with the principle contained in South the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly Africa interpretation AC 503 Accounting for Black Economic Empowerment BEE against equity.
The discount provided or value given is calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 and included in the determination of the pro t or loss on disposal.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the effective interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the Employee bene t trust instrument.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the The carrying value of shares held by the employee bene t trust are recorded as carrying amount of the convertible bond.
treasury shares, shown as a reduction in retained earnings within shareholders equity.
Bank borrowings Presentation currency Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, As permitted by UK company law, the Group results are presented in US dollars, net of direct transaction costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on the currency in which most of its business is conducted.
settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis and charged to the income statement using the effective interest method.
Cash and cash equivalents They are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together are not settled in the period in which they arise.
with short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and that are subject to an insigni cant risk of changes in value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Bank overdrafts are, however, shown within short term borrowings in current In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity liabilities on the balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash ow statement price risk, the Group enters into forward, option and swap contracts.
The Group are shown net of overdrafts.
does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Commodity based normal purchase or normal sale contracts that meet the requirements of Trade receivables IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are recognised in Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated generally at their nominal earnings when they are settled by physical delivery.
value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Such allowances are raised based on an assessment of debtor ageing, past All derivatives are held at fair value in the balance sheet within other financial assets experience or known customer circumstances.
derivatives or other financial liabilities derivatives, and, when designated as hedges, are classi ed as current or non-current depending on the maturity of the Trade payables derivative.
Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are classi ed as current, Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, even when their actual maturity is expected to be greater than one year.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and net of direct issue costs.
effective as hedges of future cash ows are recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income Investments statement.
If the cash ow hedge of a rm commitment or forecast transaction Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, results in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or a liability, then, at the time the are financial asset investments and are initially recorded at fair value.
At subsequent asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that reporting dates, financial assets that the Group has the expressed intention and had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement ability to hold to maturity held to maturity as well as loans and receivables are of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of a nonmeasured at amortised cost, less any impairment.
The amortisation of any discount financial asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income or premium on the acquisition of a held to maturity investment is recognised in the statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects pro t or loss.
income statement in each period using the effective interest method.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged item Investments other than those classi ed as held to maturity or loans and receivables is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the are classi ed as either fair value through pro t or loss which includes investments corresponding entry in pro t or loss.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the associated held for trading or available for sale investments.
Both sub-categories are measured derivative are recognised in pro t or loss.
at each reporting date at fair value.
Where investments are held for trading purposes, unrealised gains and losses for the period are included in the income statement The gain or loss on hedging instruments relating to the effective portion of a net for the period within other gains and losses.
For available for sale investments, investment hedge is recognised in equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity until the investment is disposed immediately in the income statement.
Gains or losses accumulated in equity are or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity included in the income statement when the foreign operations are disposed of.
is included in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not hedge accounted Current financial asset investments consist mainly of bank term deposits and xed are recognised immediately in the income statement and are classi ed within other and oating rate debt securities.
Debt securities that are intended to be held to gains and losses or net finance costs depending on the type of risk the derivative maturity are recorded on the amortised cost basis.
Debt securities that are not relates to.
intended to be held to maturity are recorded at the lower of cost and market value.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 95
