ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 BUSINESS FOCUS DELIVERING OUR STRATEGIC GOALS Base Metals Driving operational Tyres keeping the excellence wheels moving 3 Anglo Americans operations across the A key challenge is to drive the process globe continue to be challenged by a of operational excellence throughout combination of higher energy and other the business from exploration input costs, including tyres, against the to procurement background of the strongest upturn in metal prices for more than 40 years The focus on continuous improvement operators are spread over four shifts, Operational excellence is very heavy mining machinery such as within Anglo Base Metals over the last making communication dif cult.
This much a twin pronged thrust: load haul dumpers in different four years provided an ideal vehicle for hurdle was overcome by employees driving a culture change through conditions, which enables more addressing the industry tyre shortage meeting outside working hours at their our continuous improvement accurate replacement strategies issue.
At the start of 2005, Mantos own initiative to discuss ways of efforts that aim to get each to be put in place.
Modi cations Blancos, one of Anglo Base Metals overcoming the problem.
The success of employee involved in improving can now be designed to extend Chilean copper operations, was faced this initiative has created a great sense what they do and how they the life of XLP and other with the threat that its eet availability of pride and achievement at all levels of do it, and the development or equipment and it is intended to would be seriously impacted by the the workforce.
adoption of leading edge embed these design principles shortage of tyres by September of that technology and of applying it into the equipments speci cations year.
This led to the Protect the Rubber This outcome is just one illustration of the quickly and intelligently.
by transferring the technology to campaign at the mine, which has resulted bene ts that are resulting from instilling a the equipment manufacturers.
in a near doubling of tyre life over the continuous improvement consciousness.
Procurement and supply chain Following its success at Waterval past two years.
The initiative involved There are more than 500 initiatives in excellence has been a major mine, this new mining method about 160 people including truck drivers, Anglo Base Metals, addressing all aspects element of the Groups activities will be implemented at other managers and supervisors and has of the business and including all levels of since 2000 with the inception Anglo Platinum operations, where yielded savings of more than $860,000.
of Project Angelo, which was practically and economically designed to increase volume viable, during 2007-2008.
Below: A continuous improvement This project is a good example of the campaign at Mantos Blancos copper leverage for lower supplier prices mine in Chile has led to a near commitment shown by employees.
and maximise synergies At Kumba Iron Ores Sishen mine doubling in tyre life of the truck eet Equipment operates continuously and Groupwide.
In 2006, Anglo the focus is on bringing about a and generated substantial savings American businesses spent sustained improvement in $14 billion with their suppliers operating margins by extracting and achieved cost savings of ore from material previously $583 million in synergies, fide ned as waste.
The mining operating ef ciencies and operation reduces waste negotiated procurement savings.
stripping by using smaller loaders in the ore waste contact areas.
At Anglo Platinums Waterval Contact ore that would have mine, trials of extra low pro le been discarded owing to XLP trackless mining equipment, excessive dilution is now employed in areas of severely separated and recovered by the restricted height, have shown smaller scale equipment.
The a near tripling in cubic metres clean ore is then hauled to the mined per month, with improved crusher and the waste discarded.
The This selective mining process has exercise has also shown that it is yielded two important bene ts: possible to determine accurately ore that would have been the structural life expectancy of discarded owing to dilution is Anglo American: A focused mining group 15% $1.2 bn 13 Mtpa increase in platinum production Barro Alto project approved Sishen Expansion Project on track over 2005 by Base Metals 12 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 See also Anglo American at a glance IFC Below: Anglo Platinum is using extra low pro le equipment at three pilot sites in the mining of narrow Operating review p16 ore deposits.
Increased mining ef ciency has resulted, The business p34 while safety has been enhanced by removing operators from the stope face to a safe, supported area Driving operational excellence XLP trackless mining equipment shows potential to improve productivity and safety at Anglo Platinum Selective mining process at Kumbas Sishen mine reduces waste A matrix of technologies is being examined in the ongoing drive to reduce vehicle related incidents recovered, while contact waste, Vehicle related incidents are that would have claimed space responsible for a disproportionately in the bene ciation plant, is high number of deaths and removed before the material serious injuries at Group enters the plant.
Anglo Technical 2.7 million tonnes of ore was Division and business unit in haul truck maintenance costs, IN DETAIL recovered from waste, with a representatives have compiled increased tyre life, improved Cost savings near equivalent amount of clean a matrix of technologies to productivity arising from shorter ore delivered to the plant.
examine various collision truck turnaround times and a avoidance systems.
saving of around $200,000 in At the Skorpion zinc mine, Combinations of several diesel in 2006.
Procurement and supply chain located in a remote and arid technologies, including radar, excellence has been a major environment in southern Namibia, video cameras, ultrasonic, infrared In the UK, Tarmac recently element of the Groups a novel solvent extraction and and radio frequency, are being completed a review to evaluate activities since 2000.
Since the electrowinning process was implemented at Group operations.
the commercial activities of the beginning of 2002, the Group developed by Anglo Base in Information is being shared Aggregate Products business and has achieved procurement partnership with Anglo Research across the business units, to identify areas of opportunity.
and Spanish technology providers while a joint working group is The project, which drew together US$m to treat an oxide zinc ore. Skorpion establishing closer relationships people from all major disciplines Cost savings in 2006 is now one of the lowest cost with suppliers and investigating in Tarmac, has resulted in 281 Materials 279 zinc producers in the world joint initiatives with other a signi cant change in 16 33 and supplies 24 exploiting a deposit that was mining companies.
organisational structure and Labour 52 15 Maintenance 6 previously uneconomic to mine.
proposed new ways of working 7 211 Admin and 7 In South Africa, poor road that require retraining, upskilling 21 overheads 46 Open pit slope stability is an conditions at Anglo Coals and behavioural change.
Post Other Energy issue of growing importance to Landau colliery had been causing programme audits have been 122 the mining industry due to the damage to haul trucks and undertaken to embed the new potential for loss of life and impacting productivity in wet skills and knowledge gained and serious injury not to mention weather.
To counter this, and to to continue the improvements in damage to equipment, leading ensure that there would be working practices.
Procurement Operating to loss of production.
Radar sustained improvement, a efficiencies based and laser based mobile detailed haul road design and systems, designed to detect subconstruction standard was drawn millimetre slope movements long up.
Previously discarded In addition to the above, before they can be detected by sandstone was used in the restructuring and synergies the naked eye, and then generate construction of the haul roads, have amounted to $23 million.
alarms, are being installed where which were properly cambered, necessary at open pit operations with improved drainage.
bene ts include a 7% reduction Right: Pit radar and laser beam system that forms part of the slope stability monitoring system at Anglo Platinums PPRust 15 % 131% mine increase in copper production in the increase in operating pro t second half of 2006 over the first half at Base Metals Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 | 13
