WDB 20-37 artwork 12 12 06 3:55 pm Page 18 W&DB ACCOUNTS 09 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Going concern facilities.
It is therefore considered appropriate to adopt the The Directors are confident, having reviewed the Groups going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
budget for the 52 weeks to 29 September 2007 and relevant plans beyond that date, that the Group and the Company By Order of the Board have adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
This review included an analysis of business operating plans, proposed capital expenditure and associated cash flow projections.
It also included a comparison Anne-Marie Brennan of results and ratios within the Groups committed borrowing Secretary 1 December 2006 10 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial any time the financial position of the Company and the Group, statements for each financial year which give a true and fair and to enable them to ensure that financial statements comply view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and financial statements, the Directors are required to: hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the and prudent: Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, state whether the Group financial statements comply with accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard changes that may have occurred to the financial statements, to the parent company financial statements whether since they were initially presented on the website.
applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation explained in the financial statements: and and dissemination of financial statements may differ from prepare financial statements on the going concern basis legislation in other jurisdictions.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors consider that they have complied fully with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements on Anne-Marie Brennan pages 42 to 77 and pages 81 to 88.
Secretary 1 December 2006 The Directors are also responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at 37 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 WDB 38-92 artwork 12 12 06 4:00 pm Page 1 38 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006
