WDB 38-92 artwork 12 12 06 4:00 pm Page 8 W&DB GROUP ACCOUNTS 17 NOTES 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and Standing Interpretations Committee SIC interpretations adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings and derivative financial instruments.
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures will be mandatory for the Group in the period ending 27 September 2008.
This will require the Group to amend certain disclosures in relation to its financial instruments, but will have no impact on the results presented.
The Group does not consider that any other standards or interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, but not yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the financial statements.
Prior period consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
Comparative figures have been restated to comply with IFRS and details of the restatement are included in note 39.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the audited financial statements of The Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries, PLC and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of new subsidiary undertakings are included in the Group accounts from the date on which control transferred to the Group or, in the case of disposals, up to the effective date of disposal.
Transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
The Group has applied the purchase method in its accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The consolidated financial statements also incorporate the results of W&DB Issuer PLC, a company set up with the sole purpose of issuing debt secured on assets owned by the Group.
The Directors consider this company meets the definition of a special purpose entity under SIC 12 Consolidation special purpose entities and hence for the purpose of the consolidated financial statements it has been equity accounted for.
Details of this company are provided in note 35.
Changes in accounting policies The Group indicated in its IFRS adoption statement released on 28 March 2006 that actuarial gains and losses arising in relation to the Groups defined benefit pension scheme would be accounted for using the corridor method, whereby such gains and losses are recognised in the income statement over the expected average remaining working lives of employees only to the extent that their net cumulative amount exceeds 10% of the greater of the present value of the pension obligation and the fair value of the plan assets at the end of the previous period.
Following a review of IFRS accounting policies by the Directors, and in light of the practice adopted by the industry, the Group has accounted for its defined benefit pension scheme in accordance with the Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits, which permits the recognition of actuarial gains and losses in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and expense.
First time adoption of IFRS IFRS 1 First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards permits entities adopting IFRS for the first time to take certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
The following key exemptions have been taken by the Group: The carrying value of property, plant and equipment revalued in the period ended 2 October 2004 has been deemed to be the cost at the date of transition.
Comparative figures have not been adjusted to take account of IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
These standards have been applied prospectively from 2 October 2005 and hence financial instruments for the comparative period have been presented in accordance with UK GAAP.
The comparatives that would have been presented had IAS 32 and IAS 39 been applied are disclosed in note 20.
The Group has applied IFRS 2 Share-based payment only to equity settled awards that were granted after 7 November 2002. Business combinations prior to the Groups IFRS transition date 2 October 2004 have not been restated in accordance with the the requirements of IFRS 3 Business combinations.
IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations has been adopted with effect from 2 October 2005 and has not been applied retrospectively.
Revenue and other operating income Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to customers, and rents receivable from licensed properties.
Revenue for drink, food and accommodation is recognised at the point at which the goods or services are provided.
Gaming machine income is recognised as earned.
Rental income is recognised in respect of the period to which it relates.
Revenue is recorded net of discounts, intra-Group transactions, VAT, and excise duty relating to the brewing and packaging of certain products.
Other operating income comprises mainly rents from unlicensed properties.
45 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 12988 11 12 06 Proof 2 WDB 38-92 artwork 12 12 06 4:00 pm Page 9 W&DB GROUP ACCOUNTS 17 NOTES 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Segmental reporting For primary segment reporting purposes the Group is considered to have four distinguishable business segments, being Pathfinder Pubs, The Union Pub Company, WDB Brands and Central.
This mirrors the Groups internal organisation and management structure, and reflects the different risk profiles to which the business is exposed.
An element of Central costs is allocated to each of the trading divisions.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are defined as those that are both significant and non-recurring, whose significance is sufficient to warrant separate disclosure in the financial statements.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Intangible assets arising on acquisition of subsidiaries are recognised separately from goodwill if the fair value of these assets can be identified separately and measured reliably.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the intangible asset.
Where the useful life of the asset is considered to be indefinite no annual amortisation is provided but the asset is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Impairment reviews are carried out more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may be impaired.
The useful lives of the Groups intangible assets are: Computer software 5 years Brands Indefinite Any impairment of carrying value is charged to the income statement.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition is capitalised and represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable net assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is not amortised but is instead reviewed for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold and leasehold properties are stated at valuation or at cost.
Plant, furnishings, equipment and other similar items are stated at cost.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to provide for the cost of the assets less residual value over their useful lives.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated to residual value over 50 years.
Short leasehold properties are depreciated over the life of the lease.
Other plant and equipment is depreciated over periods ranging from 3 to 15 years.
Own labour directly attributable to capital projects is capitalised.
Valuation of properties - Properties are revalued by qualified valuers on a regular basis using open market value so that the carrying value of an asset does not differ significantly from its fair value at the balance sheet date.
When a valuation is below current carrying value, the asset concerned is reviewed for impairment.
Impairment losses are charged to the revaluation reserve to the extent that a previous gain has been recorded, and thereafter to the income statement.
Surpluses on revaluation are recognised in the revaluation reserve, except where they reverse previously charged impairment losses, in which case they are recorded in the income statement.
Disposals of property, plant and equipment Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment represents net sale proceeds less the carrying value of the assets.
Any element of the revaluation reserve relating to the property, plant and equipment disposed of is transferred to retained earnings at the date of sale.
Impairment If there are indications of impairment or reversal of impairment, an assessment is made of the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value of assets including goodwill.
If there is an indication that any previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased, a reversal of the loss may be made if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amounts since the last impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount only up to the carrying amount that would have resulted, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
The reversal is recognised in the income statement.
The depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying value, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
There is no reversal of impairment losses relating to goodwill.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases if the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
46 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 12988 11 12 06 Proof 2 WDB 38-92 artwork 12 12 06 4:00 pm Page 10 W&DB GROUP ACCOUNTS 17 NOTES 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The cost of the assets held under finance leases is included within property, plant and equipment and depreciation is charged in accordance with the accounting policy for each class of asset concerned.
The corresponding capital obligations under these leases are shown as liabilities.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to the income statement and classified within finance costs as incurred.
Rental costs under operating leases, including lease incentives, are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Other non-current assets Other non-current assets represent trade loans and premiums paid on the acquisition of operating leases.
In common with other major brewers the Group makes trade loans to publicans who purchase the Groups beer.
These trade loans are classified as financial instruments held for trading and are recognised initially at cost.
Subsequently trade loans are measured at fair value, being amounts advanced less deemed impairment.
Income and expenses are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Payments made on entering into or acquiring leaseholds that are accounted for as operating leases represent prepaid lease payments and hence are classified as non-current assets.
These are amortised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes direct materials and a proportion of attributable overheads.
Assets held for sale Assets, typically properties, are categorised as held for sale when the value of the asset will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
This condition is met when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
In addition, the Group must be committed to the sale and the completion should be expected to occur within one year from the date of classification.
Assets held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated.
Financial assets: available-for-sale investments Cash invested in short-term investment funds, for which there are no withdrawal penalties and the maturity dates are in excess of 90 days, are treated as financial assets, rather than a cash equivalent, as required by IAS 7 Cash flow statements.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits on call with banks.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Borrowings and borrowing costs All loans and borrowings are stated initially at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs.
Issue costs are charged to the income statement over the term of the borrowings at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Interest is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Preference shares are treated as borrowings, and dividends payable on those preference shares are charged as interest in the income statement.
Financial instruments The Groups treasury policy is set out in note 20 to the financial statements.
Derivative financial instruments - The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged or credited to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
The Group seeks to achieve hedge accounting to mitigate the impact on the Group of changes in interest rates on the floating rate tranche of securitised loan notes by matching the impact with a fixed rate interest swap in the income statement.
This is recognised as a cash flow hedge.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedging relationship must meet several conditions with respect to documentation, probability of occurrence, hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement.
At the inception of the transaction the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, as well as the Groups risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction.
This process includes linking all derivative financial instruments designated as hedges to specific liabilities.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at the hedge inception and on a regular basis, as to whether the hedging transaction has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in cash flows.
The effective part of the changes in fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised in equity, whilst any ineffective part is recognised immediately in the income statement.
47 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 12988 11 12 06 Proof 2 WDB 38-92 artwork 12 12 06 4:00 pm Page 11 W&DB GROUP ACCOUNTS 17 NOTES 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Under the transitional rules of IFRS 1, IAS 32 and IAS 39 are not applied to comparative balances, and hence the comparatives are presented in accordance with UK GAAP.
Under UK GAAP there is no requirement to recognise the fair value of derivative financial instruments in the balance sheet.
Trade receivables - Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition, do not carry any interest and are stated at their fair value.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, and recorded net of provision for impairment.
Trade payables - Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Employee benefits Pension costs for the Groups defined benefit post-retirement plan are determined by the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial calculations being carried out at each period end date.
Costs are recognised separately as operating and financing costs in the income statement.
Operating costs comprise the current service cost, any income or expenses on settlements or curtailments, and past service costs where the benefits have vested.
Finance items comprise the interest on plan liabilities and the expected return on plan assets.
Actuarial gains or losses comprising differences between the actual and expected return on plan assets, changes in plan liabilities due to experience and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet for the defined benefit post-retirement plan is the present value of scheme liabilities less the fair value of scheme assets.
Pension costs for the Groups defined contribution post-retirement plan are charged to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Post-retirement medical benefits are accounted for in an identical way to the Groups defined benefit post-retirement plan.
Key management personnel are those who have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
In the case of The Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries, PLC the only key management personnel are considered to be the Directors of the Group.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on all differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date which give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
Differences are defined as the differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Provisions Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
When valuations of leasehold properties based on future estimated income streams give rise to a deficit as a result of onerous lease conditions they are recognised as provisions.
Such provisions are not discounted as the Directors consider the discounted amounts would not be materially different from the amounts recognised.
Share-based payments The fair value of share-based remuneration at the date of grant is calculated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the award.
The charge to the income statement takes account of the estimated number of shares that will vest.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions contained within IFRS 2 and has only applied this accounting policy to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002.
Awards granted prior to 7 November 2002 are not charged against profits.
Own shares Own shares consist of treasury shares, shares held within a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and shares held within an Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP, which is used for the granting of shares to applicable employees.
