WDB 38-92 artwork 12 12 06 4:00 pm Page 8 W&DB GROUP ACCOUNTS 17 NOTES 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and Standing Interpretations Committee SIC interpretations adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings and derivative financial instruments.
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures will be mandatory for the Group in the period ending 27 September 2008.
This will require the Group to amend certain disclosures in relation to its financial instruments, but will have no impact on the results presented.
The Group does not consider that any other standards or interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, but not yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the financial statements.
Prior period consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
Comparative figures have been restated to comply with IFRS and details of the restatement are included in note 39.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the audited financial statements of The Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries, PLC and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of new subsidiary undertakings are included in the Group accounts from the date on which control transferred to the Group or, in the case of disposals, up to the effective date of disposal.
Transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
The Group has applied the purchase method in its accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The consolidated financial statements also incorporate the results of W&DB Issuer PLC, a company set up with the sole purpose of issuing debt secured on assets owned by the Group.
The Directors consider this company meets the definition of a special purpose entity under SIC 12 Consolidation special purpose entities and hence for the purpose of the consolidated financial statements it has been equity accounted for.
Details of this company are provided in note 35.
Changes in accounting policies The Group indicated in its IFRS adoption statement released on 28 March 2006 that actuarial gains and losses arising in relation to the Groups defined benefit pension scheme would be accounted for using the corridor method, whereby such gains and losses are recognised in the income statement over the expected average remaining working lives of employees only to the extent that their net cumulative amount exceeds 10% of the greater of the present value of the pension obligation and the fair value of the plan assets at the end of the previous period.
Following a review of IFRS accounting policies by the Directors, and in light of the practice adopted by the industry, the Group has accounted for its defined benefit pension scheme in accordance with the Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits, which permits the recognition of actuarial gains and losses in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and expense.
First time adoption of IFRS IFRS 1 First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards permits entities adopting IFRS for the first time to take certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
The following key exemptions have been taken by the Group: The carrying value of property, plant and equipment revalued in the period ended 2 October 2004 has been deemed to be the cost at the date of transition.
Comparative figures have not been adjusted to take account of IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
These standards have been applied prospectively from 2 October 2005 and hence financial instruments for the comparative period have been presented in accordance with UK GAAP.
The comparatives that would have been presented had IAS 32 and IAS 39 been applied are disclosed in note 20.
The Group has applied IFRS 2 Share-based payment only to equity settled awards that were granted after 7 November 2002. Business combinations prior to the Groups IFRS transition date 2 October 2004 have not been restated in accordance with the the requirements of IFRS 3 Business combinations.
IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations has been adopted with effect from 2 October 2005 and has not been applied retrospectively.
Revenue and other operating income Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to customers, and rents receivable from licensed properties.
Revenue for drink, food and accommodation is recognised at the point at which the goods or services are provided.
Gaming machine income is recognised as earned.
Rental income is recognised in respect of the period to which it relates.
Revenue is recorded net of discounts, intra-Group transactions, VAT, and excise duty relating to the brewing and packaging of certain products.
Other operating income comprises mainly rents from unlicensed properties.
