Contingent liabilities As at 25th February 2006 neither the Group nor the Company had any contingent liabilities.
Related party transactions and ultimate controlling party The Company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries see note 33 and with its Directors.
During the financial period the Company entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related parties as follows: 2006 2005 m m Transactions with group undertakings: Funds borrowed 37.9 36.1 Dividends receivable 101.8 44.5 Group relief 1.0 1.9 Interest receivable 4.6 Amounts due from group undertakings 133.2 70.3 Transactions with directors Details of Directors remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 13 to 17.
The Company regards the Hargreaves family as the ultimate controlling party in accordance with the denitions in the Listing Rules.
Post balance sheet event impairment of software and development costs As referred to on page 4 of the Business Review, on 2nd May 2006 the Board took the decision not to complete the implementation of supply chain software under development.
As a consequence, the cost of the assets, including software and associated development costs totalling 20.4m, have been charged to the income statement as an exceptional loss.
Principal subsidiary companies Principal activity Country of incorporation UK companies Matalan Retail Limited Retail Great Britain Falmer Jeans Limited Brand management Great Britain Jonmar Limited Property Great Britain Matalan Holding Company Limited Holding company Great Britain Matalan Investments Limited Holding company Great Britain Matalan Travel Limited Travel services Great Britain Matalan Card Acquirer Services Limited Credit card handling Great Britain Jaymax Limited Distribution Great Britain Wolsey Limited Wholesale Great Britain All of the above companies are wholly owned.
Except for Matalan Retail Limited, Falmer Jeans Limited, Jonmar Limited, Matalan Card Acquirer Services Limited, Matalan Travel Limited, Matalan Investments Limited and Jaymax Limited, all other companies are held via subsidiary undertakings.
All subsidiaries have coterminous year ends with the Parent Company.
The following principal companies were disposed of during the period and have been included in the consolidated financial statements up to the date of disposal.
Principal activity Country of incorporation UK companies Lee Cooper UK Limited Retail Wholesale Great Britain Lee Cooper International Limited Distribution Great Britain Lee Cooper Group Limited Holding company Great Britain Vivat Holdings Limited Brand management Great Britain European companies Lee Cooper Services SA Services France Lee Cooper France SA Retail Wholesale France Lee Cooper Belgium SA Retail Wholesale Belgium Other overseas companies Lee Cooper Tunisie SA Manufacturing Tunisia A full list of subsidiary undertakings at 25th February 2006 will be annexed to the Companys annual return.
