STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the 52 weeks ended 25th February 2006 Basis of preparation The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of this accordance with IFRS has resulted in changes to the accounting financial report are set out below.
These policies have been policies adopted.
The accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to the information presented, unless otherwise applied consistently to all periods presented in this report, with the stated.
exception of the IFRS 1 exemptions that have been applied to prior periods.
They have also been applied in preparing an opening IFRS All subsidiaries have applied these accounting policies balance sheet as at 29th February 2004 for the purposes of the consistently.
transition to IFRS, as required by IFRS 1.
The impact of the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS is explained in note 34.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments which Basis of consolidation are stated at their fair value.
The consolidated financial statements include the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings and are presented in Sterling, the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Companys functional currency.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European Union issued by the International Subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the period are included Accounting Standards Board IASB, with the Interpretations issued up to the date of disposal.
Intra-group transactions and balances by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are eliminated on consolidation.
IFRIC of the IASB that are effective as of the balance sheet date Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Revenue The Group has taken advantage of a number of exemptions under Revenue, which excludes value added tax and trade discounts, IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting represents the value of goods supplied through retail shops.
Standards, namely: Retail revenue, which is net of returns, is recognised in the financial not to present comparative information in accordance with IAS statements when the risks and rewards of ownership have passed 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS to the customer.
39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Intangible assets not to restate its financial information for business combinations a Goodwill occurring before 29th February 2004: Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings not to apply IFRS 2 Share Based Payments to share options representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given granted before 7th November 2002 and vested by 27th February over the fair value of the separately identiable net assets acquired, 2005: together with associated costs is capitalised and allocated to cash generating units, and is subject to an impairment review annually or to deem cumulative translation differences to be zero at 29th in the event of an indication of impairment.
February 2004: and On disposal of a subsidiary undertaking, the attributable amount of to use the revaluation amount of an item of property, plant and goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on equipment at, or before, 29th February 2004 as deemed cost at disposal.
b Computer software As the Group has taken the option to defer the implementation of Software and associated costs are capitalised as intangible assets IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and where it is not an integral part of the related hardware and amortised IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement until to the income statement on a straight line basis over its estimated the financial year ending 25th February 2006, comparative useful life which is generally 3 to 5 years.
information for financial instruments has been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
c Brands Purchased brands are capitalised at historical cost as intangible An explanation of how the transition to IFRS has affected the assets and amortised over its estimated useful life.
reported financial position, financial performance and cash ows of the Group is provided in note 34.
This note includes reconciliations Property, plant and equipment of equity and profit and loss for comparative periods reported under Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed UK GAAP to those reported for periods under IFRS.
cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
29 STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line Operating leases basis over the estimated useful lives of each component of an item Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as basis over the lease term.
follows: Lease incentives to enter into new operating leases are deferred Freehold buildings 50 years and released to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis Alterations to leasehold premises Over the life of the lease over the lease term.
Fixtures, ttings and equipment 3 10 years Taxation Motor and commercial vehicles 3 5 years Current taxation Freehold land is not depreciated.
Current taxation is the expected taxation payable on the taxable Investments income for the year, using taxation rates enacted or substantially Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, where cost is the enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to taxation aggregate nominal value of the relevant number of the Companys payable in respect of previous years.
shares and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire Deferred taxation the share capital of the subsidiary undertakings.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, The net book value of investments in subsidiaries is increased by the providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts fair value of employee services for those employees of those of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and subsidiaries receiving share based payments, in accordance with the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary IFRS 2 Share Based Payments.
differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes and the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect Foreign currencies neither accounting nor taxable profit.
The amount of deferred tax a Foreign currency transactions provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign settlement of carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling and that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax liability at rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences is settled or asset is realised.
arising on translation are dealt with in the income statement.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is b Financial statements of overseas subsidiaries probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are expressed in asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent Sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
profits it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
and losses of overseas subsidiary undertakings are expressed in Sterling at average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement when differences on these re-translations are recognised directly in a the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is separate component of equity.
recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is On disposal of an overseas subsidiary, the related cumulative recognised directly in equity.
foreign currency translation reserves generated since the date of transition are taken to the income statement when the gain or loss Share based payments on disposal of the subsidiary is recognised.
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares in the Company.
In accordance with the transitional Inventories provisions of IFRS 2 Share Based Payments, the fair value of Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
options granted to employees after 7th November 2002, including Cost is based on purchase cost on a first in, first out basis and Save-As-You-Earn schemes, which had not vested by 27th February includes appropriate overheads and direct expenditure incurred in 2005 is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding the normal course of business in bringing them to their present increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at the date of grant and location and condition.
spread over the vesting period of the options.
Net realisable value is the price at which stocks can be sold in the The fair value of the options granted is measured using a binomial normal course of business after deducting costs of realisation.
model taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the Provisions are made as appropriate for obsolescence, markdown options were granted, for those options which have market related and shrinkage.
performance criteria LTIPs a Black Scholes pricing model is used.
Costs of inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains or The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reect the losses on qualifying cash ow hedges relating to the purchase of actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is goods for resale.
only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
30 Financial instruments gains or losses on the related currency transaction and taken In accordance with the transitional rules the Group adopted IAS 32 through the profit and loss account.
and 39 with effect from 27th February 2005 and therefore accounted Interest bearing borrowings for financial instruments and other derivative contracts until 26th Interest bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less February 2005 under UK GAAP.
Subsequent to initial recognition, The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its interest bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in operational, nancing and investment activities.
In accordance with the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative effective interest basis.
The fair values of loans and overdrafts with financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and measured at fair value on the date a derivative financial contract is Impairment of assets entered into and subsequently measured at fair value at each The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories balance sheet date.
The gain or loss on re-measurement is taken to and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to the income statement except where the derivative is a designated determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such cash ow hedging instrument under IAS 39. indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and the carrying value of the asset revised.
The Group accounts for those derivative financial instruments used to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk on foreign Cash and cash equivalents currency stock purchases as cash ow hedges under IAS 39.
In Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at order to qualify for this hedge accounting, the Group is required to call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with document in advance the relationship between the item being original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship the balance sheet.
between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which Repurchase of share capital shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
When share capital is repurchased and cancelled, the amount of The assessment of the effectiveness of each hedge is reconsideration paid including directly attributable costs, is recognised performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains as a change in equity.
Dividends Gains or losses on cash ow hedges that are regarded as highly Final dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are effective are recognised in equity.
On completion of the forecast recognised in the Groups financial statements in the period in which purchase transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss previously the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim deferred in equity on the derivative instrument is recognised as part dividends payable are recognised in the period in which the of the carrying amount of the underlying non-financial asset, the dividends are paid.
ineffective part is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The effective gain or loss is recognised in the income statement in Critical accounting estimates and judgements the same period during which the underlying asset affects the The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the income statement.
The resultant accounting estimates will, by denition, seldom equal the actual results.
Estimates and judgements are continually If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, then evaluated and based on historical experience and other factors, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss is recognised immediately in including expectations of future events that are believed to be the income statement.
Where a hedge no longer meets the reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group does not consider effectiveness criteria, any previously effective gains and losses that any of the estimates or assumptions made have a significant deferred in equity are transferred to the carrying amount of the risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the underlying non-financial asset: future gains and losses are assets and liabilities of the next financial year.
recognised immediately in the income statement as they arise.
New accounting standards For the comparative balances reported under UK GAAP where the The Group has not adopted early the requirements of IFRS 7 Group was party to derivative financial instruments, primarily to Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which will become mandatory manage exposures to uctuations in foreign currency exchange with effect from 1st January 2007.
The new disclosures will therefore rates, differences between market values and contract values on be adopted in the Groups financial statements from the 53 weeks these derivatives were not recognised until maturity of the contracts.
The resulting gains or losses were offset against foreign exchange ended 1st March 2008.
