DIRECTORS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Nominations Committee consists of Sir Colin Terry Chairman, STATEMENT OF APPLIANCE OF THE PRINCIPLES IN Sir Alan Cox, Mr P J Hill, Mr D A Robins, Mr D M Williams and THE COMBINED CODE Mr T Twigger.
The Committee considers any new appointments to The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out the Board but all directors are consulted and the decision to appoint is in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in taken by the Board as a whole.
All directors are subject to election by 2006 as reported in the Statement of Compliance on page 43.
Further shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
in connection with Directors remuneration policies, and total packages, In compliance with Combined Code requirements, Sir Alan Cox will be are contained in the Remuneration Report on page 44. subject to annual re-election in 2009 and each subsequent year.
The Board has approved written terms of reference for the Committee which are available on the Companys website.
BOARD COMPOSITION The Board considers it has a good balance of executive and non executive THE BOARD, ITS COMMITTEES AND PROCEEDINGS directors, is of a size and includes the skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business.
The Board comprises a non The full Board met on eight occasions during the year and these meetings executive Chairman, Sir Colin Terry, a Chief Executive, Mr T Twigger, were attended by all directors, except that Mr D M Williams was excused two other executive directors and four non executive directors.
The Board regularly receives reports from the Chief The senior independent non executive director is Mr D A Robins.
Executive on the Groups activities, from the Group Finance Director on The senior independent non executive director is available to shareholders financial performance and treasury matters and from the Group Corporate if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels Affairs Director on legal and compliance issues.
has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Strategic issues and other items including such matters as capital The independent non executive directors are considered by the Board structure, financial reporting and controls are considered in line with to be Mr P J Hill, Mr D A Robins and Mr D M Williams.
a schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board.
If a decision Sir Alan Cox, is not judged to be independent under the Combined Code is not reserved for the Board then authority lies, in accordance with an by virtue of his having been appointed for longer than nine years.
Whilst authorisation policy, with one of the Finance Committee of the Board, Sir Alan Cox is no longer regarded as independent, the Board considers the Chief Executive, an executive director or the managing directors of that his extensive experience in industry and other organisations makes the individual business units.
There were no circumstances arising during him a valuable member of the Board.
Biographical and other relevant the year where it was necessary to record unresolved concerns in the information on directors submitted for re-election is provided in the Boards minutes.
Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman talks with and holds meetings on an informal basis with The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is the other non executive directors without the executives present.
a clear division of responsibilities which has been approved and agreed Committee membership, number of formal meetings held during 2008 in writing by the Board.
Sir Colin Terry met the independence criteria and attendance is shown in the following table: on appointment as Chairman on 1 July 2004.
of The Board of Directors retains full and effective control of the Group and during meetings is collectively responsible for the Groups success through its leadership.
year attended It sets the strategy, ensures appropriate resources are in place and Audit reviews performance on a regular basis.
The Board is responsible for Mr D M Williams Chairman 3 3 setting the Groups values and standards and for ensuring its obligations Mr P J Hill 3 3 to shareholders, employees and others are met.
Mr D A Robins 3 3 The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for ensuring Remuneration its effectiveness.
Accurate, timely and clear information is provided to Mr D A Robins Chairman 5 5 all directors and the Chairman is satisfied that effective communication, Mr P J Hill 5 5 principally by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, is undertaken Mr D M Williams 5 4 with the shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the contribution of non executive directors and the relationship between them and the executive Nominations directors.
The non executive directors play a full part by constructively Sir Colin Terry Chairman 1 1 challenging and contributing to the development of strategy.
Sir Alan Cox 1 1 Mr P J Hill 1 1 The performance of management is monitored, as is the integrity of Mr D A Robins 1 1 financial information and effectiveness of financial controls and risk Mr D M Williams 1 1 management systems.
The non executive directors are responsible Mr T Twigger 1 1 for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the executive directors and have an important role in the appointment of new directors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non executive directors are available for inspection.
Their letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment required and, on appointment, their other significant commitments were disclosed along with the time involved.
Financial statements 41 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 DIRECTORS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continued In order that the Board can review the effectiveness of the system of INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT internal control, the following procedures are in place: The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and 1.
The Board receives regular reports at Board Meetings on the state of of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
the business from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director On joining the Board new directors receive an appropriate induction to and regularly receives a report on legal and compliance activities from the business.
Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet new the Group Corporate Affairs Director.
non executive directors should they wish to do so.
The Audit Committee meets regularly and reviews the effectiveness Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly and their of the internal control environment of the Group.
At these meetings knowledge and familiarity with the Group is facilitated by access to senior it receives reports from the external auditors and the internal audit management, receiving reports on the business and visits to the Groups department.
Internal audit visits to operating units are planned using operating facilities.
Resources are available to directors for developing a risk model.
and updating their knowledge and capabilities.
The Board has an Ethics and Export Compliance Committee which The Board of Directors has established a procedure for all directors to reviews these areas of compliance on a quarterly basis.
take independent professional advice at the Companys expense where 4.
Annually a review of the risk environment and the Groups key risks they judge it necessary.
Committees are provided with sufficient resources is presented to the Board for their consideration.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for 5.
Every month, each business submits detailed operating and financial ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and that there is a reports covering all aspects of their performance.
These are reviewed good information flow within the Board.
The appointment and removal and, subject to materiality, issues are communicated to the of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Management Board and the Board.
Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers insurance.
On an annual basis, the managing director of each business provides written confirmation that the business for which he is responsible has PERFORMANCE EVALUATION been in compliance with the Group Procedures Manual.
In January 2009 the Board conducted a self-evaluation assessment.
Annually, the Board receives a report on the insurance coverage in The Chairman led a review and discussion to consider the Boards place and the risks which remain uninsured.
performance against some high level objectives and its own terms of reference and its performance against these.
The Board was satisfied The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks with its effectiveness.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees have also faced by the Group is as follows: considered their own performance during the year.
Following a series of risk workshops facilitated by risk professionals individual directors has been considered by the Chairman and Chief at business, divisional and Group level to identify and analyse the key Executive in discussion with other non executive directors.
The non risks faced by the Group, the Board reviewed the list of those risks executive directors have considered the performance of the Chairman, and the mitigation plans.
These risks are regularly reviewed by the taking into account the views of the executive directors.
individual operating businesses, by divisional management and then, by exception, by the Management Board.
There is a regular review of the performance of each business These financial statements contain an explanation of the directors undertaken by the executive directors and senior Group management.
responsibility for the preparation of the accounts and a statement by 3.
There is a Group Procedures Manual, the purpose of which is to the auditors concerning their responsibilities.
The directors also report establish appropriate authority levels throughout the Group to cover that the business is a going concern.
certain items of expenditure, financial commitments and other matters, which are regarded as essential in order to ensure that INTERNAL CONTROL overall financial control is maintained throughout the Group.
The Board maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard The Group Procedures Manual is subject to regular review and update.
shareholders investment and the Groups assets.
There is a comprehensive insurance programme.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable assurance against material 5.
There are programmes for business continuity, health and safety, misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms full implementation of the environment, export compliance and ethics.
Financial Reporting Councils updated Turnbull guidance on Internal 6.
There is an on-going programme of assurance activities including Control 2005. internal audit, external audit, external tax compliance review, environmental audits, health and safety audits, property risk reviews and buildings surveys and export regulation compliance reviews.
42 Financial statements Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 DIRECTORS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continued The Board confirms that this process was in place for the year under The views of shareholders are reported to the Board by the Chief Executive.
review and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.
The Chairman and other non executive directors are available to attend meetings with shareholders if they are requested to do so.
In addition to the The Board considers that there is considerable comfort in the fact that Chief Executives regular reports, directors may develop an understanding the Groups cash inflow from operating activities represented 100% of of the views of major shareholders from regular reports by the Companys underlying operating profit in 2008. brokers to the Board and attendance at analysts briefings as required.
Analysts notes on the Company are made available to all directors.
AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board.
The Committee has CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL three members, all of whom are considered to be independent.
The MEETING Chairman of the Committee is Mr D M Williams.
The Board is satisfied The Board uses the Annual General Meeting as an occasion for that amongst the Committees members there is recent and relevant communication with its shareholders.
Proxy appointment forms for each financial experience.
The Board has approved written terms of reference resolution provide shareholders with the option to direct their proxy to for the Committee which were updated in January 2009 and are available vote either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
All proxy on the Companys website.
votes for, against and withheld are counted by the Companys Registrars During 2008 the Committee met on three occasions.
The external auditors and the level of voting for, against and withheld on each resolution is attended these meetings to discuss the scope and the final results of made available at the end of the meeting and on the Companys website.
the 2007 audit in detail which included the main risks facing the Group, The proxy form and the announcement of the results of a vote make it the strategy for the 2008 audit, the hard close results of the 2008 audit clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in along with any other items which the auditors or the non executive the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against the resolution.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the Separate resolutions are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on internal control environment of the Group and received reports from substantially separate issues and there is a resolution relating to the internal audit as described above.
The Committee reviews at each financial statements.
meeting the activities of the internal audit function and regularly reviews The respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations its effectiveness.
In addition the audit committee monitors the integrity Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to respond to of the financial statements of the Group, formal announcements relating questions and it is usual for all other directors to attend.
to the Groups financial performance and reviews significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
It is the intention of the Board that notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers should be sent to shareholders at least 20 working The Committee has primary responsibility for recommending the days before the meeting.
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
The Company places great importance on the independence of its STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS auditors and, together with them, is careful to ensure their objectivity is not compromised.
The Committee is responsible for agreeing the fees OF THE COMBINED CODE to be paid to external auditors in respect of their services as auditors.
The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2008 The Companys general policy in respect of other non-audit fees is: the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of audit related services: the external auditors would be invited to the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance with the following undertake those services which they are required to, and most suited exceptions: to, perform: a A.
3.2 At least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, does not taxation: the Companys principal tax advisor is Deloitte & Touche comprise independent non executive directors.
Whilst Sir Alan Cox is LLP: and no longer regarded as independent owing to his appointment as a non consulting: the Companys policy is not to employ its external auditors executive director for more than nine years, the Board considers that for general consulting work where this could impair their his extensive experience in industry and other organisations makes him independence or objectivity.
a valuable member of the Board.
The Audit Committee is required to approve any fees to the external b A.
4.1 A majority of members of the Nominations Committee should auditors in excess of 0.1 million.
be independent non executive directors and this was not the case during An Ethics Line exists which enables employees to raise any concerns 2008.
Sir Alan Cox is no longer regarded as independent owing to his about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or appointment as a non executive director for more than nine years.
These arrangements allow for proportionate and independent result, the Committee is made up of six members, of whom three are investigation and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Board considers that Sir Alan Coxs extensive experience in industry and other organisations makes him a valuable member of the Committee.
DIALOGUE WITH INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDERS The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private GOING CONCERN investors.
Effective communication with fund managers, institutional investors and analysts is promoted by way of meetings involving the Chief After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the Executive and Group Finance Director.
This encompasses such issues as time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable strategy, performance and policy.
During the year the Company appointed expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in a Group Head of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations to operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the enhance communications with investors.
directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
This statement of going concern also constitutes part of the Business Review on pages 10 to 29.
Financial statements 43 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008
