Corporate governance report Statement of compliance A process of annually evaluating the performance of the Board The Company supports the principles of corporate governance and each Committee is in place.
The Chairman has held meetings contained in the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance with the Directors, including the senior independent non-executive that was issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
Director, Mr Miles Templeman, to discuss the performance of the The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for executive Directors and the Board as a whole.
It was considered that good governance.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2008, the individual Directors and the Board as a whole were operating the Company has complied with the provisions of section 1 of the effectively.
In addition, each of the Directors completed an evaluation 2006 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code on Corporate questionnaire during the year designed to identify any failures in the Governance.
The statements below describe how the Company has performance of the Board and each of its Committees in order to applied the principles identified in the Combined Code.
The findings of the evaluations were reviewed by the Company Secretary and feedback The Board was provided to the Board.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad-hoc In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one basis as required by time critical business needs.
The Board is third or the number nearest to but not less than one third of all responsible to shareholders for the effective and proper management Directors are required to retire and submit themselves for re-election and control of the Company and has a formal schedule of matters at each Annual General Meeting of the Company.
It is the policy of the reserved for its decisions.
Its primary roles are to determine and Board that non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of review Company strategy and policy, consider acquisitions and three years, following which their appointment will be reviewed.
disposals, assess requests for major capital expenditure and give Certain Directors are proposed for re-election as set out in the consideration to all other significant financial matters.
This process is Notice of Annual General meeting on page 94.
The Board and undertaken following discussions in conjunction with senior executive Nomination Committee have carefully considered the time management who in turn are responsible for day to day conduct of commitments required and the contribution made by each Director the Groups operations and for reporting to the Board on the progress and both the Nomination Committee and the Board are of the belief being made in meeting the objectives.
There were five scheduled that the performance of each executive and non-executive Director Board meetings held during the year and the attendance of each of continues to be effective and that each Director demonstrates the Directors is shown on page 34. commitment to his role.
As at 31 December 2008 the Board comprised seven members, All Directors receive a formal and tailored induction shortly after being the executive Chairman, Christopher Miller, three other their appointment.
Directors are advised that they have access to the executive Directors and three non-executive Directors.
The four advice and services of the Company Secretary and, in addition, that executive Directors: Christopher Miller, Chairman, David Roper, Chief they are entitled to seek independent professional advice in the Executive Officer, Simon Peckham, Chief Operating Officer and furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Geoffrey Martin, Group Finance Director, and the three non-executive A pack of briefing papers and an agenda is provided for each Directors: Miles Templeman, Perry Crosthwaite and John Grant, served Director in advance of each scheduled meeting.
The Directors are throughout the year.
The terms and conditions of the non-executive able to seek further clarification and information on any matter from Directors appointments and the executive Directors service contracts any other Director or employee of the Group whenever necessary.
are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction with the non-executive Directors appointment letters are also available on the recommendations of its Committees and advice from external Companys website: www.
consultants, advisers and executive management.
The Board believes that the Directors possess diverse business experience in areas complementary to the activities of the Company.
Chairman and Chief Executive Biographies of the Directors are shown on pages 24 to 25.
These The Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman of the Board and biographies identify any other appointments held by the Directors.
Chief Executive of the Company should be split.
The only executive Director to hold non-executive Director The division of responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief appointments elsewhere is Mr Christopher Miller who is Chairman Executive is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
of TMO Renewables Limited and he receives remuneration from The Board considers that the respective roles and responsibilities are this appointment.
clearly understood by both individuals and by the Board as a whole.
In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, The Chairman alone is responsible for the leadership of the Board and consideration has been given to the independence of all the nonfor ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Board considers all the non-executive Executive is responsible for decisions involving the day to day Directors to be independent.
The non-executive Directors are not management of the Company.
entitled to any shares under the 2007 Incentive Share Scheme.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 32 GOVERNANCE The Board Christopher Miller Executive Chairman David Roper Chief Executive Simon Peckham Chief Operating Officer Geoffrey Martin Group Finance Director Miles Templeman Senior Non-Executive Director Perry Crosthwaite Non-Executive Director John Grant Non-Executive Director Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Miles Templeman Chairman Perry Crosthwaite Chairman Miles Templeman Chairman Perry Crosthwaite Miles Templeman Perry Crosthwaite John Grant John Grant John Grant Christopher Miller Committees of the Board The Audit Committee has a policy on the engagement of the In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code the Board external auditor to supply non-audit services and the Committee is has three standing Committees: the Audit, Remuneration and aware of the audit and non-audit services including taxation advice Nomination Committee, each of which include the three independent which have been provided by Deloitte LLP during 2008.
The duties of the Committees are set out in proportion of the non-audit services related to non-recurring work in formal terms of reference.
These are available from the Company connection with the acquisition of FKI plc, the proposed disposal of Secretary and on the Companys website, www.
the Logistex business, provision of tax advisory services and pensions Membership of the Committees is shown above.
The provision of non-audit services was considered to be Secretary acts as Secretary to each of the Committees.
appropriate, given the external auditors depth of knowledge of the affairs and financial practices in the Group.
The Audit Committee is Audit Committee satisfied that, notwithstanding non-audit work, Deloitte LLP have The Audit Committee currently comprises the three independent nonretained objectivity and independence during the year.
The Audit executive Directors, Mr Miles Templeman, Mr Perry Crosthwaite and Committee will continue to monitor its policy in this regard and Mr John Grant.
Mr Miles Templeman is the Chairman of the Audit accepts that non-audit work should be controlled to ensure that it Committee.
Each member of the Audit Committee brings relevant does not compromise the independence of the auditors.
financial experience from senior executive and non-executive positions The Audit Committee is expected to meet not less than three as described in their biographies on pages 24 to 25. times a year and during 2008, the Audit Committee met three times.
The Audit Committee invites the Group Finance Director, The attendance of its members, along with the Group Finance the Head of Financial Reporting and senior representatives of the Director, is shown in the table on page 34. external auditors to attend meetings as appropriate to the business being considered.
In addition, the Audit Committee has the right to Remuneration Committee invite any other employees to attend meetings where this is The Remuneration Committee currently comprises the three considered appropriate.
independent non-executive Directors, Mr Miles Templeman, Mr Perry The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness Crosthwaite and Mr John Grant.
Mr Perry Crosthwaite chairs the of the Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and Remuneration Committee.
practices, financial reporting process, risk management procedures The function of the Remuneration Committee is to establish and and compliance controls as well as the integrity of the Companys review the terms and conditions of employment of the executive financial statements.
Directors, and to make recommendations to the Board on the overall The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, framework and broad policy for the remuneration of the Companys implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external Directors and other senior executives within the Group.
audit and for overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness of the The Remuneration Committee is expected to meet not less auditors.
The Audit Committee recommends the appointment and than twice a year and during 2008 the Remuneration Committee re-appointment of the Companys external auditors and considers met twice.
The attendance of its members is shown in the table on the scope of their audit work and the cost effectiveness of their work.
The report to shareholders on how Directors are The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Groups remunerated, together with details of individual Directors external auditors.
remuneration are shown on pages 36 to 39.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 33 Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee Internal control and risk management The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr Christopher Miller Objectives and policy and the three independent non-executive Directors, Mr Miles The objective of the Directors and senior management is to safeguard Templeman, Mr Perry Crosthwaite and Mr John Grant.
Mr Miles and increase the value of the business and assets of the Group.
Templeman is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Achievement of this objective requires the development of policies The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and and appropriate internal controls to ensure the Groups resources are composition of the Board, particularly in relation to the balance of managed properly and any key risks are identified.
skills, experience and knowledge and seeks to ensure that both The Board is ultimately responsible for the system of internal executive and non-executive Directors have the necessary skills and control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The systems and processes attributes for the future success of the Company.
The Nomination established by the Board are designed to manage, rather than Committee reviews succession plans for the Directors and makes eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and cannot recommendations to the Board on membership of the Board and of provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Nomination Committee retains external search The Audit Committee ensures the effectiveness and efficiency of consultants as appropriate.
the internal control processes implemented by senior management.
The Nomination Committee is expected to meet not less than This entails discussions with senior management of the Group, the twice a year and during 2008 the Nomination Committee met twice.
findings of which are in turn discussed by the full Board.
The Board is The attendance of its members is shown in the table below.
committed to satisfying the internal control guidance for directors set out in the Turnbull Report.
Further, the Board is aware of the major Attendance at meetings risks facing the Group and the steps taken by the Group, where The table below shows the attendance of each of the Directors at possible, to mitigate such risks.
the scheduled and significant meetings of the Board and its standing The Group has policies which address a number of key business Committees held during the year.
The quorum necessary for the risks, including financial, treasury, health and safety and environmental transaction of business by the Board and each of its standing risks.
These policies are made available to relevant employees through Committees is two.
Briefing papers and a meeting agenda are manuals and also via specific employee briefings and other provided for each Director in advance of each meeting.
Decisions are communications, as appropriate.
Senior management assume taken by the Board, in conjunction, where appropriate, with the responsibility for managing risk in the businesses.
Where appropriate, recommendations of its Committees and advice from external external advisers are appointed in order to support this process.
The representations of any Director who is unable to attend a meeting of the Board or a standing Key risks Committee are duly considered by those Directors in attendance.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies in relation to the use of financial instruments are described in the Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Finance Directors review on pages 17 to 23.
Other key risks which 1 Number of meetings 53 22 could adversely affect the Group are described in the Business review on pages 8 to 16 and Directors report on pages 26 to 31.
Christopher Miller 5 n a n a 2 David Roper 5 n a n a n a Managing and controlling risk Simon Peckham 5 n a n a n a 2 The Group operates on a decentralised basis and divisional executives, Geoffrey Martin 53 n a n a plant managers and financial controllers are responsible for managing Miles Templeman 52 22 the operating risks within their business.
Lines of responsibility are Perry Crosthwaite 53 22 clearly defined and local operating businesses have autonomy within John Grant 53 22 a framework of central management.
1 In addition, ad-hoc meetings are held from time to time which are attended by a There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate risks quorum of Directors and are convened to deal with specific items of business.
2 faced by the Group, through the conduct of regular meetings and Mr Martin attends by invitation.
business reviews with the Groups senior management.
The operating performance of each business is regularly reviewed by the executive Directors and progress is monitored against business plans.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 34 GOVERNANCE Internal financial controls Communications with shareholders The Group has a comprehensive system for regular monitoring and Principally via the executive Directors, the Company seeks to build on reporting of financial performance and assessing the efficiency of the a mutual understanding of objectives with its institutional shareholders Groups systems of internal controls.
A detailed budget is prepared by through regular meetings and presentations following announcements management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted by the of annual and interim results.
The senior independent non-executive Board.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling Director, Mr Miles Templeman, is available to meet institutional forecast process and regular business review meetings are held shareholders should there be unresolved matters they wish to bring to involving senior management, at which the Groups overall his attention.
The views of key analysts and major shareholders are performance is also assessed.
The results of these reviews are in communicated back to the Board directly by individual Directors and turn reported to and discussed by the Board at each meeting.
via the Companys brokers ensuring all members of the Board The Audit Committee has considered whether there is a develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
requirement for an internal audit function.
Based on the Groups Corporate information is available on the Companys website, strong financial controls and management, the Audit Committee is www.
satisfied that an internal audit function is not presently required.
The Board welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the Instead, the audit of internal financial controls forms part of the Annual General Meeting and the attendance of all Directors is responsibilities of the Groups finance function.
This matter will be required.
The number of proxy votes cast for and against each of the kept under regular review.
During the year members of the head resolutions proposed is announced at the AGM and a summary will office finance team conducted internal audits over financial controls in be available shortly after the AGM on the Companys website.
place at various divisional locations.
Following the acquisition of FKI, the Company utilised the By order of the Board services of an external audit firm specialising in internal control reviews to assist with the evaluation of the internal controls in place at FKI.
Site visits in the UK and overseas were conducted and the outcome of the GARRY BARNES reports was shared with the Company, the Audit Committee and the Secretary Companys auditors.
The recommendations are in the process of 11 March 2009 being implemented where appropriate.
The Board confirms that, from its review of internal controls, it has not determined any significant failings or weaknesses that it considers require remedial action.
The Board also confirms that it has not been advised of any material weaknesses in the internal control systems that relate to financial reporting.
Whistleblowing policy The Group has a whistleblowing policy in place which enables individuals to make protected disclosures to their divisional human resources manager, Group Company Secretary or senior independent non-executive Director if they have concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other malpractices within their business.
