our most improved category was Giving Something Back development of all its employees where this is of benefit to which measures our involvement in community, charity and the individual and to the Group.
In 2008 we launched More Giving Throughout 2008, the Group monitored the diversity of its an initiative which allowed each UK employee 1 day per year UK employees, 88% of whom to date have completed the to undertake team based projects to benefit a local charity, voluntary request for information.
The analysis indicates community or environmental project of their choice.
Some a split of 52% female, 48% male, and regarding origin, examples of the activities so far have included gardening, 88% white, 11% ethnic origin and 1% declining to answer.
painting and decorating, staffing at youth centres, farming The UK 2001 Census showed a total ethnic population of etc.
To date we have given well over 300 days of service to 7.9%.
Similar monitoring will be carried out during 2009. organisations around the UK including Macmillan Cancer The Group recognises the importance of diversity in the Support, Chelmsford Cats protection league, Warners End workplace for both our own and our clients businesses.
Neighbourhood Community Centre, Hainault Youth Centre, We are committed to increasing the recognition of our Waterways Trust to mention a only a few.
brand amongst a more diverse audience, and to encourage Communication with employees has always been a strength development of an increasingly diverse candidate database given the non-hierarchical management structure and the together with our workforce.
our monitoring of our candidate genuine involvement of senior management with all levels databases confirms that the brand attracts candidates from a of employee.
This was further enhanced during 2008 with wide range of backgrounds.
We participate in the Interbank the implementation of Maximising potential as the vision for Diversity Forum and work with organisations like Global the organisation.
one of the many initiatives resulting from Graduates where we strive to ensure that we offer our clients this was the Maximising leadership calls which involved all the most qualified candidates on the basis of their relevant UK employees being given the opportunity to dial into a call aptitudes, skills and abilities and that such candidates are made by our CEo answering questions posed by employees drawn from diverse backgrounds.
and updating them on the companys plans for the future.
The Group continues to participate in the Race for This has been particularly popular in uncertain economic opportunity, part of Business in the Community, a UK times in allowing employees to hear first hand the many movement of over 700 member companies whose purpose success stories around the business and also to share in is to inspire, challenge and support business in improving the strong leadership and employee participation required its impact on society.
As a result, the group has taken a to succeed.
range of proactive steps to increase awareness of diversity, Communication with employees is also effected through Group including training for all new employees within their first month newsletters, the Companys Intranet, information bulletins, with the business and implementing a competencybased briefing meetings conducted by senior management and management development programme to ensure employees formal and informal discussions.
Interim and Annual Reports are promoted on their merit and ability.
As making judgements are available to all staff.
Informal communication is further based on a candidates individual merits is at the heart of facilitated by the Groups divisional organisation structure.
our diversity policy, we have introduced more competencybased interviewing procedures into our selection processes In the Americas, Michael page USA was ranked Number 1 particularly when recruiting people to join Michael page.
Executive Recruitment firm in New York by Crains for the We continue to work closely with a range of clients to discuss third year in a row and again voted one of the best places and share diversity ideas best practice and to offer expertise to work in Connecticut by the Hartford Business Journal and to minority groups.
voted one of the best places to work in Massachusetts by the Boston Business Journal.
Michael page is also a member of the Employers Forum on Age EFA, an independent network of leading employers d equal opportunity and diversity which sets the agenda for age and employment issues in The Group endorses and supports the principles of equal the UK.
The membership of EFA lists over 200 organisations, employment opportunity.
It is the policy of the Group to from central and local government to major multinational provide equal employment opportunity to all, which ensures corporations.
Upon introduction of the Employer Equality that all employment decisions are made, subject to its legal Age Regulations in october 2006, Michael page was obligations, on a non-discriminatory basis.
Due consideration nominated for an award by the EFA for best implementation is given to the recruitment, promotion, training and working of the legislation in its sector.
Following the release of the environment of all staff including those with disabilities.
legislation on age discrimination, an Age Discrimination It is the Groups policy to encourage the training and further Working party was formed to review the policies, procedures 32 michael page international and systems of the Company to ensure compliance with the following sections of the Annual Report: legislation once introduced.
Corporate Governance The Board and its operation The recommendations made are fully implemented by Corporate Governance Nomination Committee the Company.
Additionally, we participate in a number of Corporate Governance Board appointments external initiatives such as the Global Graduates and The Remuneration Report Annual bonus plan Brokerage, a charity whose aim is to increase the ambition Remuneration Report Directors interests and share and employability of young people in the 11 inner-city ownership requirements london boroughs.
Notes to the Accounts Note 18: Called-up share capital e Health and safety Shareholder Information and Advisers Memorandum and It is the policy of the Group to take all reasonable and Articles of Association practicable steps to safeguard the health, safety and welfare Each of the above sections is incorporated by reference into, of its employees, visitors and other persons who may be and forms part of, this Directors Report.
In order to meet these responsibilities, the Group will: Information to Auditors assess the risks to health and safety: Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report implement safe systems at work: confirms that: provide information, instruction and training: 1. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: establish and maintain emergency procedures: and and regularly review health and safety policies and 2. the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have procedures.
taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant The Group is being proactive in our approach to health and audit information and to establish that the Companys safety by monitoring proposed changes in legislation and auditors are aware of that information.
implementing policies accordingly, and as such we comply 3.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted with all statutory and regulatory requirements.
our medical in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the insurers also provide a 24hr counselling helpline covering Companies Act 1985. stress, legal issues and consumer rights.
Auditors f supplier payment policy Deloitte llp are willing to continue in office and accordingly It is the policy of the Group to agree appropriate terms resolutions to re-appoint them as auditors and authorising and conditions for transactions with suppliers by means the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
contracts and that payment should be made in accordance with those terms and conditions, provided that the supplier Annual General Meeting has also complied with them.
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting The Company acts as a holding Company for the Group.
to be held on 22 May 2009, together with explanatory notes, Creditor days for the Company were nil 2007: nil as appear in the Notice of Meeting set out on pages 89 to 94. the Company does not undertake any transactions with By order of the Board suppliers.
The Groups creditor days at the year end were 38 2007: 27 days.
Share capital, restrictions on transfer of shares and other additional information kelvin Stagg To the extent not discussed in this Directors Report, Company Secretary information relating to the Companys share capital structure, 5 March 2009 restrictions on the holding or transfer of its shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to such securities required by Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 is set out in the ANNUAl REpoRT 2008 33 Corporate gOVERNANCE The Board of Directors has a strong commitment to high Stephen Box will retire from the Board in 2009.
The Group would standards of corporate governance and has applied the like to extend their thanks to Stephen for his contribution.
main and supporting principles of corporate governance All Directors have access to the advice and services of the as recommended in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Corporate Governance, the 2006 FRC Code, for the year Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are ended 31 December 2008. observed.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Compliance with the 2006 fRC Code Companys expense.
The Directors consider that the Company has complied with The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It has a all the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2006 FRC formal schedule of matters reserved to it and delegates Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2008. specific responsibilities to Committees.
During the meetings, the Board formally considers how and to whom matters the Board and its operation covered at each meeting should be communicated and The Board of Michael page International plc is the body actioned beyond the Board.
Decisions concerning matters responsible for corporate governance, establishing policies of a more routine nature are dealt with by management below and objectives, and the management of the Groups Board level.
The structure of the Group facilitates the day to resources.
It is the Groups policy that the roles of Chairman day running of the business and enables efficient and effective and Chief Executive are separate.
communication of issues to the Board when required.
The main Board currently comprises the Chairman, who The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors also met during is deemed to be independent and has no operational the year without the Executive Directors being present.
responsibilities, three Executive Directors and four Each of the Committees has formal written terms of reference independent Non-Executive Directors.
All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and The terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and re-election by the shareholders in accordance with the Articles Nomination Committees are available on request and can of Association, whereby one third of the Directors retire by be found on the Groups website.
Their composition and rotation each year.
All Directors are subject to election by the the manner in which they discharge their responsibilities are shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following described below.
All Directors are subject to re-election every three years in accordance with the 2006 FRC Code.
The Executive Board, a Committee of the Main Board, meets formally at least four times a year, and is responsible for Stephen puckett and Hubert Reid will retire by rotation assisting the Chief Executive in the performance of his duties, and offer themselves for re-election.
As a result of their including development and implementation of strategy, annual performance evaluation, the Board considers that operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets.
their individual performances continue to be effective, with each director demonstrating commitment to their role.
These activities are performed at a regional level by four The Board is therefore pleased to support their re-election Regional Boards, Committees of the Main Board, for the UK, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
EMEA, Asia pacific and the Americas.
Each Regional Board 34 michael page international meets at least four times a year.
Objectivity and independence of external auditors The Company amended its articles of association in May Deloitte are employed to perform work in addition to their 2008 to deal with, amongst other things, the provisions on statutory duties where it is felt that they are best placed conflicts of interest in the Companies Act 2006 which came to carry out the engagement as a result of their being the into force in october 2008.
Following this, the Company Groups auditors.
All other work is awarded on the basis of has put in place procedures for the disclosure and review competitive tender.
of any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest which the The objectivity and independence of the external auditor is Directors may have and for the authorisation of such conflict safeguarded by: matters by the Board.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict, the Directors must have regard a. obtaining assurances from the external auditor that to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006. adequate policies and procedures exist within its firm to The authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of ensure the firm and its staff are independent of the Group authorisation, may be reviewed at any time and will be by reason of family, finance, employment, investment and reviewed formally by the Board on an annual basis.
business relationships other than in the normal course of business : Audit Committee b. enforcing a policy concerning the provision of non-audit The Audit Committee comprises the independent Nonservices by the auditor which governs the types of work: Executive Directors and, since May 2008, is chaired by Ruby i. from which the external auditor is excluded: McGregor-Smith.
Their relevant qualifications and experience are shown in their biographies on the Board of Directors ii.
for which the external auditor can be engaged without page 26 and 27. referral to the Audit Committee: and The Committee met seven times in 2008 to fulfil its duties iii.
for which a case-by-case decision is required, which and included attendance by the external auditors where includes all engagements over certain fee limits.
The number of meetings increased from four The following areas are considered to be unacceptable last year to review interim management statements before for the external auditors to undertake: submission to the Main Board.
The Committee also met with the external auditors during the year without the presence selection, design or implementation of key financial of management.
systems: maintaining or preparing the accounting books and In 2008 the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities records or the preparation of financial accounts or as set out in the terms of reference which can be found on our website.
Its principal tasks are to review the Groups other key financial data: internal controls and internal audit reports, review the scope provision of outsource financial systems: of the external audit, consider issues raised by the external provision of outsource operational management auditors, and review the half-yearly and annual accounts functions: before they are presented to the Board, focusing in particular recruitment of senior finance or other executives: on accounting policies and compliance, and areas of management judgement and estimates.
secondment of senior finance or other executives: ANNUAl REpoRT 2008 35 provision of internal audit services: to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee can be found on our website.
valuation services or fairness opinions: and any services specifically prohibited to be provided Succession planning by a listed companys external auditors under UK one of the basic premises behind the strategic development regulations.
of the Michael page business is that growth is organic rather The following criteria also need to be met before the external than through acquisitions of companies or hiring senior people auditors are contracted to provide such services: in non-support roles.
In order to achieve this organic growth the firm has the necessary skills and experience to we require good people.
It is therefore one of the fundamental undertake the work: principles and a major part of the philosophy of the Company that we train and develop our own people.
This approach there are no potential conflicts that may arise as a creates opportunities for career progression and helps us result of carrying out this activity: attract and retain high calibre individuals.
the external audit firm is subject to the companys normal tendering processes: and Due to this philosophy of nurturing our own talent, succession planning is inherently a key part of the process.
We do not in addition to the normal authorisation procedures and make promotions or move people within the business unless prior to inclusion in a tender, approval has to be given there is a clear successor for the vacant position.
It is therefore by the Group Finance Director and, if the fee exceeds one of the key responsibilities of all levels of management, a certain level, the Audit Committee.
and not just the Board, to have a clear plan of development c. enforcing a policy of reviewing all cases where it is for their direct reports.
proposed that a former employee of the external auditors be employed by the Group: and Board appointments d. monitoring the external auditors compliance with The Board follows formal and transparent procedures applicable UK ethical guidance on the rotation of audit when appointing directors.
identifies a shortlist of suitable candidates for Non-Executive appointments.
All the candidates are interviewed by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and the Chief Executive, and in the case of the most The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent recent appointment, all candidates in the final shortlist were Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Dr Tim Miller.
interviewed by the Nomination Committee.
Evaluations of all candidates are discussed with all members of the Nomination The Committee reviews the Groups policy on the Chairmans, Committee and the recommendation is subsequently made Executive Directors and senior executives remuneration and to the Board.
terms of employment, makes recommendations upon this along with the specific level of remuneration to the Board, Induction and training programme and also approves the provision of policies for the on appointment to the Board, each Director discusses with incentivisation of senior employees including share schemes.
the Company Secretary the extent of training required and The Committee meets at least twice a year and is also attended a tailored induction programme to cover their individual by the Chief Executive, except when his own remuneration requirements is then compiled.
Elements of the programme is under consideration.
The Remuneration Report includes information on the Directors service contracts.
The terms typically consist of meeting senior management, site visits of reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found and attending internal conferences.
In addition, information is provided on the Companys services, Group structure, on our website.
Board arrangements, financial information, major competitors nomination Committee and major risks.
After an initial induction phase, updates are provided on a periodic basis.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Sir Adrian Montague.
It is Performance evaluation responsible for making recommendations to the Board on new appointments, as well as making recommendations as The Board, as part of its commitment to ensuring to the composition of the Board generally, and the balance effectiveness and evaluating its performance together with between Executive and Non-Executive Directors appointed that of its Directors and Committees, conducted an internal 36 michael page international review comprising a questionnaire concerning all aspects of the Combined Code the Turnbull Report was published in procedure and effectiveness.
Following completion of the questionnaires, the Chairman The Board has assessed existing risk management and met with the individual Directors to discuss their views and internal control processes during the year ended 31 to give feedback on their performance.
The results of the December 2008 in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
evaluation were reported to the Board and where areas of The Board believes it has the procedures in place such that improvement have been identified, actions have been agreed the Group has fully complied for the financial year ended upon and training will be provided where required.
31 December 2008 and at the date of this report.
Stephen Box, as the Senior Independent Director, led The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors to appraise financial and operational controls which are designed to meet the performance of the Chairman.
The meeting took into the Groups particular needs and aim to safeguard Group account any comments made by the Executive Directors.
assets, ensure proper accounting records are maintained This evaluation is carried out annually.
and that the financial information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
Attendance at meetings Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement individual attendance by the members of the Committees and loss.
Key elements of the system of internal control are only are shown in Fig.
3. as follows: Internal control Group organisation.
The responsibilities of the Directors in respect of internal The Board of Directors meets at least ten times a year, control are defined by the Financial Services Authoritys focusing mainly on strategic issues, operational and listing Rules which incorporate a Code of practice known financial performance.
There is also a defined policy on as the Combined Code, which requires that Directors review matters strictly reserved for the Board.
The Managing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
Director of each operating division is accountable for This requirement stipulates that the review shall cover all controls establishing and monitoring internal controls within including operational, compliance and risk management, that division: as well as financial.
Internal Control Guidance for Directors on Fig.
Attendance at Board Meetings Committee attendance shown for Committee members only Main Board Total meetings 11 Meetings attended Executive Steve Ingham 11 Charles-Henri Dumon 11 Stephen Puckett 11 Audit Remuneration Nomination Main Board Committee Committee Committee Total meetings 11 7 3 1 Meetings attended Non-Executive Sir Adrian Montague CBE 11 1 Stephen Box 11 7 3 1 Ruby McGregor-Smith 11 7 3 1 Dr Tim Miller 9 7 3 1 Hubert Reid 10 6 3 1 ANNUAl REpoRT 2008 37
