Management and governance Corporate governance Introduction The principles set out in the Combined Code cover four areas: The principal corporate governance guidance that applies to the board, directors remuneration, accountability and audit companies listed with the UK Listing Authority that applies to and shareholder relations.
With the exception of directors the year is contained in the 2006 Financial Reporting Councils remuneration which is dealt with separately in the remuneration Combined Code the Combined Code.
The Combined Code, report on pages 35 to 41 the following section sets out how which operates on a comply or explain basis, incorporates, the board has applied these principles.
amongst others, recommendations by the Higgs Review regarding the role of non-executive directors, and the Smith The board Review, which refers to audit committees.
Through their The Group is controlled by the board, which is responsible for commitment to the highest standards of corporate governance, the Groups system of corporate governance.
As at 30 April the Board endorses and supports the essential elements of the 2008, the board comprised eight directors: Combined Code and, apart from a few limited exceptions as described below, believes the Group has fully complied with the Kevin Loosemore Non-executive Chairman Combined Code during the year reported on.
Where it has not, Stephen Kelly Chief Executive officer an explanation has been provided.
Nick Bray Chief Financial officer David Maloney Non-executive director Compliance statement Prescott Ashe Non-executive director The directors are committed to ensuring that the Company will David Dominik Non-executive director work towards compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 Tom Skelton Non-executive director of the Combined Code 2006.
Paul Pester Non-executive director The Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions Paul Pester was appointed a non-executive director on set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on corporate 27 June 2007. governance, except for the following: The role of the non-executive directors is to ensure that A.
3.2 board of directors The Combined Code requires independent judgement is brought to board deliberations that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should and decisions.
comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
With two such non-executive directors The non-executive directors possess a wide range of skills not regarded as independent, the Company did not comply and experience, relevant to the development of the Company, with this rule during the year ended 30 April 2008. which complement those of the executive directors.
2.1 remuneration committee The Company is aware The Chairman operates in a non-executive capacity and is that the Chairman is not regarded as independent for considered by the board to be independent of management and purposes of the Combined Code.
The Code states that free from any business or other relationship which could materially the remuneration committee must comprise at least three interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement.
Kevin Loosemore resigned as Chairman of the committee on 6 February 2008 David Maloney, the senior independent non-executive director, and was replaced by Paul Pester.
The Company is now Tom Skelton and Paul Pester, non-executive directors, are in compliance.
considered by the board to be independent.
Prescott Ashe and David Dominik are not considered by the Board to be independent C. 3.1 audit committee Similarly, the audit committee by virtue of their positions with the Companys major shareholder, should comprise at least three independent non-executive Golden Gate Capital.
As the Chairman was not regarded as independent throughout the year this requirement was not met.
With Paul In accordance with the Combined Code, all directors will be Pesters appointment as a non-executive director on 27 June subject to election by the shareholders at the first AGM of the 2007, and appointment to the audit committee, Kevin Company after their appointment, and, thereafter, at least every Loosemore resigned from the audit committee and the three years.
Tom Skelton and Paul Pester were elected at the Company is now in compliance.
 30 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 Management and governance directors were all elected to the board at the AGM of the review progress.
A schedule of meetings has been established.
All Company in September 2005, the directors have agreed to directors receive an agenda and board papers in advance of offer themselves for re-election on a rotation basis.
Accordingly, meetings to help them make an effective contribution at the Kevin Loosemore retired voluntarily and was re-elected at the meetings.
In addition, the executive directors ensure regular Companys AGM in September 2006 and David Maloney and informal contact is maintained with non-executive directors.
The David Dominik retired voluntarily and were re-elected by the board makes full use of appropriate technology as a means of shareholders at the Companys AGM in September 2007. updating and informing all its members.
Prescott Ashe will be retiring voluntarily and submitting himself for re-election by the shareholders at the AGM of the Company In the year under review, the board met on 15 occasions, on 25 September 2008.
The non-executive directors are six such meetings being scheduled formal board meetings with appointed for specic terms.
Full terms of their appointment a further nine additional meetings of the board called at short are to be found in the remuneration report.
notice and held by telephone to consider board issues.
The board has agreed procedures for directors to follow if they While the board retains overall responsibility for, and control believe they require independent professional advice in the of, the Company, day-to-day management of the business is furtherance of their duties and these procedures allow the conducted by the executive directors.
Review of the Groups directors to take such advice at the Companys expense.
principal business activities is the responsibility of the executive In addition, all the directors have direct access to the advice and management team, comprising the executive directors together services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is with executives responsible for sales and marketing, HR, legal, accountable to the board through the Chairman on governance technology, development and customer care, who meet weekly.
It is the responsibility of the Company Secretary to ensure that board procedures are followed and all rules and regulations The board receives papers on key subjects in advance of each are complied with.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the board meeting.
These typically cover: Company Secretarys responsibilities include facilitating induction and professional development and ensuring the smooth ow of Strategy and budgets information within the board and its committees, and between non-executive directors and senior management.
Any new Business and financial performance director receives a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction into the Companys operations.
Appropriate training is provided to Corporate activities new directors and is also available to other directors as required.
Human resources The terms of reference of the Chairman and Chief Executive officer have been agreed with the board and, in accordance Shareholders and city matters with best practice, their roles remain separate.
The board has undertaken a formal and rigorous process for the As part of its leadership and control of the Company, the board evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees has agreed a list of items that are specically reserved for its and individual directors including the Chairman, as required by consideration.
These include business strategy, nancing Combined Code provision A6.1.
This process takes the form of arrangements, material acquisitions and divestments, approval questionnaires and personal interviews with the Chairman.
The of the annual budget, major capital expenditure projects, risk performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the non-executives management, treasury policies and establishing and monitoring led by the Senior Independent Director.
At each meeting, the board reviews progress of the Group towards its objectives, and monitors financial progress The Chairman holds meetings with non-executive directors against budget.
without the presence of executive directors.
In the year to 30 April 2009, the board will schedule meetings on a regular basis approximately every two months, with additional meetings when circumstances and business dictate.
In months in which the board does not meet update calls are scheduled to Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 31 Management and governance Corporate governance Board committees The nature and scope of the internal audits completed during the In accordance with best practice, the Company has established year was reviewed and approved, reports of results of completed audit, nomination and remuneration committees, with written .
terms of reference for each that deal with their respective The plan set out at the beginning of the year was achieved and authorities and duties.
The full terms of reference of all the the outcome of the work was in line with expectations.
committees are available from the Company Secretary or can be located on the Companys website.
The Company is aware that The audit committee will meet at least four times during the Chairman is not regarded as independent for the purposes the coming financial year and, additionally as appropriate, of the Combined Code.
and a schedule of meetings for the year has been established.
Audit committee The audit committees terms of reference include a process The audit committee is comprised entirely of non-executive for employees of the Company to raise in confidence concerns directors of the Company.
It is chaired by David Maloney, who about possible impropriety in matters of financial reporting or the Board considers has recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members are, Tom Skelton and Paul Pester.
The written terms of reference of the audit committee include, The audit committee has met six times during the financial year.
among other things, the following responsibilities: The audit committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups annual accounts and interim reports prior to submission for To report to the board, identifying any matters in respect of approval to the full board.
This committee also monitors the which it considers that action or improvement is needed and Groups accounting policies, internal financial control systems making recommendations as to the steps to be taken: and financial reporting procedures.
The audit committee provides a forum through which the Groups external and internal auditors To ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly report to the board.
The auditors are invited to attend meetings protected in relation to financial reporting and internal control: of the committee on a regular basis and have the opportunity to meet privately with committee members in the absence of To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the executive management.
The audit committee oversees the Company, including its annual and interim reports, preliminary relationship with the auditor, including the independence and results announcements and any other announcement relating objectivity of the auditor taking into account UK professional to its financial performance: and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the audit rm as a whole and the consideration of audit fees and fees To review the consistency of, and changes to, for other non-audit work.
In addition, the audit committee accounting policies: has developed a policy designed to ensure that the auditors objectivity and independence is not compromised by its To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys undertaking inappropriate non-audit work.
All significant internal controls and risk management systems: non-audit work commissioned from the external auditor requires audit committee approval.
To review the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing An outsourced internal audit function continues to be provided in financial reporting or other matters: by KPMG.
The Groups Chief Financial officer provides oversight and co-ordination of internal audit.
In order to ensure To monitor and review the need for, and the effectiveness of, independence internal audit has a direct reporting line to the the Companys internal audit function in the context of the audit committee and its chairman.
Companys overall risk management system: and The role of internal audit is to advise executive management and To consider and make recommendations to the board in the board on the extent to which the Groups systems of internal relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal control are effective.
The internal audit plan for each year is of the Companys external auditor.
determined through a structured process of risk assessment and is approved by the audit committee.
32 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 Management and governance Nomination committee The key elements of the control system are: The nomination committee is comprised entirely of non-executive directors of the Company and has met three times during the The Group operates a structured, objectives-driven approach financial year.
The nomination committee will meet at least twice to full its core purpose and goals in respect of sustained during the coming financial year.
It is chaired by Kevin Loosemore profitability and growth: and the other members are David Maloney and David Dominik.
Research and development and capital expenditure The nomination committee is responsible to the full board for programmes are subject to formal review and monitoring proposing candidates to the board, having regard to the balance procedures: and structure of the board.
The nomination committee uses consultants to identify suitable candidates where a position All contracts are reviewed.
The level of review depends is identied.
on the size and complexity of the contracts and associated risks.
There are formal limits above which the review level The terms of reference of the nomination committee include, is escalated: among other things, the following responsibilities: Reconciliations are performed on a timely basis for all To review the structure, size and composition of the board major accounts: and and make recommendations to the board with regard to any changes: Systems and procedures are in place for all major transaction types with appropriate authorisation controls.
To identify and nominate, for the approval of the board, candidates to ll board vacancies as and when they arise: There is an ongoing internal process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company in To give full consideration to succession planning for directors association with the work performed by the outsourced internal and other senior executives: and audit function.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
To keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring As part of the process that the Company has in place to review the continued ability of the organisation to compete the effectiveness of the internal control system, there are effectively in the market place.
procedures designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case of those categorised by the board Remuneration committee as significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action Details of the remuneration committee are described in the is taken to remedy the failings.
remuneration report on pages 35 to 41.
This requirement is set out in the audit committees terms Accountability and audit of reference to report on a regular basis to the board on the The board is responsible for the preparation of financial Groups internal financial control procedures and to make statements that present a balanced assessment of the Groups recommendations to the board in this area.
This responsibility is administered primarily by the audit committee, the terms of reference of which The external auditors provide a supplementary, independent are referred to above.
and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal control system which they assess in the course of their work.
Internal controls Their findings are regularly reported to both the audit committee The board is ultimately responsible for establishing and monitoring and the board.
To ensure auditor objectivity and independence internal control systems throughout the Group and reviewing their there is a stringent process in place to approve non-audit work.
It recognises that rigorous systems of internal control are critical to the Groups achievement of its business objectives, Human resources that those systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate risk and that they can only provide reasonable and not absolute skills, knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 33 Management and governance Corporate governance The Group has a range of policies which are aimed at retaining Shareholder relations and providing incentives for key staff.
Objectives are set for The Company values the views of shareholders and recognises departments and employees that are derived from the Groups their interests in the Groups strategy and performance.
business objectives and performance is formally measured against these objectives twice per year.
The Group has a clear and The Company has historically reported formally to shareholders well-understood organisational structure and each employee twice a year, around June preliminary announcement of annual knows his or her line of accountability.
results and December interim statement.
This shall remain the case going forward but, in addition, following the implementation Announcements of the Transparency Directive, the Company also publishes All major announcements are approved by the Chairman and the interim management statements in or around August and executive directors and circulated to the board prior to issue.
The annual report is expected to be mailed to shareholders in August.
Separate announcements of all The Group also has internal and external checks to guard against material events are made as necessary.
Regular communications unauthorised release of information.
are maintained with institutional shareholders and presentations are given to shareholders when the half-year and full-year Financial financial results are announced.
In addition to the Chief Executive A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit officer and Chief Financial officer, who have regular contact with detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by executive investors, Kevin Loosemore, Chairman, and David Maloney, directors prior to submission to the board for approval.
Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with shareholders as and when required.
The whole board is kept up Insurance to date at its regular meetings with the views of shareholders and The Group keeps under review its portfolio of insurance policies analysts.
External analysts reports are also circulated to directors.
with its insurance brokers to ensure that the policies are appropriate to the Groups activities and exposures.
com provides an overview of the business including its strategy, products Attendance at meetings and objectives.
The number of board meetings and committee meetings attended by each director in the year to 30 April 2008 was All Group announcements are available on the website and as follows: new announcements are published without delay.
The terms of reference of each of the boards three committees and other Audit Remuneration Nomination important corporate governance documents are available on the Board committee committee committee website and from the Company Secretary.
Additionally, the Chief Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Financial officer provides a focal point for shareholders enquiries and dialogue throughout the year.
Kevin Loosemore 15 15116633 Stephen Kelly 15 15 Annual General Meeting AGM Nick Bray 15 15 Mike Shinya 9 7 The Companys AGM, which will be held on 25 September 2008 David Maloney 15 14666633 at 3pm will provide an opportunity for the board to meet with David Dominik 15 14 3 3 all shareholders and participation of shareholders is encouraged.
Prescott Ashe 15 10 At the meeting, in addition to the statutory business, the board Tom Skelton 15 136666 will be available for questions from shareholders.
Paul Pester 14 135566 During period of appointment.
In accordance with the Combined Code recommendations, Note: the Company will count all proxy votes and will indicate the level Paul Pester was appointed on 27 June 2007. of proxies lodged, the number of proxy votes for and against Kevin Loosemore resigned from the audit committee on 27 June 2007.
Mike Shinya resigned on 7 January 2008. such resolution and the number of abstentions.
A resolution will be proposed for each substantive issue and the chairs of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will attend to answer questions.
34 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008
