corporate Governance The Board is committed to ensuring that good practice in corporate The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is also governance is observed throughout the Group, and remains the responsible for ensuring that new Directors receive appropriate responsibility of the whole Board.
The Board is committed to training at the Companys expense where specific expertise is required maintaining high standards of business integrity and professionalism in the course of the exercise of their duties.
All Directors receive a in all its activities, and continues to support the highest standards in Board Compendium detailing matters relating to Board procedures.
The Board has established an agreed process for managing potential conflicts of interest.
Where potential conflicts have been authorised in The Board considers that, throughout the year, it was in compliance accordance with section 175 4 Companies Act 2006, as permitted by with the provisions of the Revised Combined Code the Code issued the Companys Articles of Association, any such authorisation will be by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006. reviewed at least annually.
The Board Non-executive Directors are appointed for a specific term and reOverall control of the Group is exercised by the Board, which has appointment is not a matter of course as each Directors position is responsibility, amongst other things, for setting strategy and ensuring reviewed as they approach re-appointment.
Succession planning is that adequate resources are available and leadership is provided to considered by the non-executive Directors as appropriate.
The Board meets up to ten times a year and has a schedule of matters reserved for its attention.
All Directors Kwek Leng Peck and Christopher Sneath will retire by rotation at the receive detailed papers one week prior to Board and committee forthcoming annual general meeting and will stand for re-election.
Reserved matters which require Board approval include: Christopher Sneath has been an independent non-executive Director acquisitions: significant property transactions: capital expenditure since 1999 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
It is intended that above predetermined limits: major contractual commitments: Board an additional non-executive director will be appointed during the level and Company Secretary appointments terminations: significant year to chair the Audit Committee.
As part of planned refreshing of litigation issues: the Groups financial statements and communications the Board and to facilitate an orderly transition, Mr Sneath will remain with shareholders.
Other matters which are reserved for the Board on the Board until the new candidate has been appointed and an have been delegated to its standing committees, details of which are appropriate handover has taken place.
set out further in this report.
Richard Hartman was appointed to the Board on 7 May 2008.
In Executive management is responsible to the Board for the Groups accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mr Hartman operational performance including: implementing Group strategy will stand for election as a Director at the forthcoming annual general as determined by the Board: maintaining adequate internal control meeting.
During the year Kwek Leng Joo appointed Kwek Eik Sheng as systems and risk management processes: monitoring operational his alternate.
John Arnett resigned from the Board with effect from 12 performance against plans and targets and reporting to the Board any December 2008. significant variances: maintaining an effective management team and planning succession.
Board Committees In relation to certain matters, committees have been established with The Board currently comprises the Chairman and two non-executive specific delegated authority.
The standing committees of the Board Directors, who are Directors of the majority shareholder, City are Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
The terms of reference Developments Limited, a senior independent non-executive Director for these committees are available, on request, from the Company as Deputy Chairman, four additional independent non-executive Secretary and on the Groups website at www.
Directors and two executive Directors.
Each Director is expected to fulfil The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all standing committees their duties for the benefit of all shareholders and it is believed that of the Board.
the independent non-executive Directors provide strong independent judgement to the deliberations of the Board.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, chaired by Christopher Sneath, consists Directors biographies shown on pages 43 to 45 identify the Chairman, entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
It is considered that Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the Boards standing Christopher Sneath has recent and relevant financial experience as committees and other Directors considered by the Board to be required by the Code.
The duties of the Audit Committee include: independent, having taken consideration of the factors set out in Code provision A.
There have been no significant changes in the Reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management Chairmans external commitments since the last annual report.
procedures: A written statement defining the respective responsibilities of the Consideration of the appointment of the external auditor and to Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer has been agreed and make appropriate recommendations through the Board to the approved by the Board.
shareholders to consider at the annual general meeting: All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary, who Agreement of the detailed scope of the external audit prior to the is responsible for ensuring the Board procedures and applicable rules commencement of their works: reviewing the scope and results of and regulations are observed.
In addition, the Directors are able, if the audit and its cost effectiveness: and recommendation of the necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys audit fee to the Board: expense.
There is the opportunity for non-executive Directors to meet separately with the Chairman.
48 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 49 corporate Governance corporate Governance Monitoring the integrity, prior to submission to the Board, of periodic Board and Committee Meetings financial statements, annual accounts, reports to shareholders and The number of meetings of the Board, and its committees, held during any other public announcement concerning the Companys financial the year are shown below together with attendance details of each position, corporate governance statements and statements on the Director.
Groups system of internal controls: Figures in brackets represent the maximum number of Board or Ensuring that arrangements are in place for employees to raise committee meetings held whilst the individual concerned is a Board concerns, in confidence, about possible fraud risk or wrongdoing in member or member of the relevant committee.
financial reporting or other matters: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings function: agreeing the annual work plan and being satisfied itself that the function has the proper resources to enable it to satisfactorily Kwek Leng Beng complete such work plans: review status reports from the internal Chairman 7 7 na na 1 1 The Viscount Thurso audit: considering managements response to any major finding and Deputy Chairman 7 7 4 4 5 5 1 1 providing support, if necessary, for any follow-up action required: Richard Hartman 5 5 na na na and ensuring that the function obtains free and unrestricted access Wong Hong Ren 7 7 na na na John Arnett 7 7 na na na to all Group activities, records, property and personnel necessary to Christopher Sneath 7 7 4 4 5 5 1 1 fulfil its agreed objectives.
Kwek Leng Joo 3 7 na na na Kwek Leng Peck 2 7 na na na The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Charles Kirkwood 7 7 na 4 5 1 1 Christopher Keljik 7 7 4 4 5 5 1 1 independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Audit Connal Rankin 5 7 2 4 3 5 1 1 independence and objectivity are safeguarded by the Audit Kwek Eik Sheng attended two Board meeting as alternate for Kwek Leng Joo.
Committee monitoring and approving, where appropriate, the nature of any non-audit work and the level of fees paid.
The Audit Evaluation Process Committee has concluded that, in some cases, notably the provision The Board evaluation process has been conducted by the Directors of taxation services, the provision of non-audit services by the auditor completing on-line questionnaires which solicit views on the Board is appropriate and this has been communicated to the Board.
Audit governance processes, the operation of standing committees and a self independence has been communicated to the Board.
assessment of individual Directors performances.
Feedback from the evaluation process is compiled by the Company Secretary and a report The external auditor and head of internal audit normally attend is prepared for consideration by the Board.
In addition, the performance all Audit Committee meetings.
Executive Directors and senior of executive and non-executive Directors is assessed annually by management from the Groups finance function are normally invited to the Chairman.
During the year, the Chairman and independent nonattend.
Separate meetings are held with the external auditor without executive Directors met without the executive Directors in attendance.
the presence of any member of executive management and similar Evaluation of the Chairman is conducted by the independent nonmeetings are held with the head of internal audit.
executive Directors led by the Senior independent non-executive Director.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by The Viscount Thurso Internal Control System and consists entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
It is The full Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control responsible for considering and making recommendations to the Board, and for monitoring its effectiveness.
In establishing this system, the within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys remuneration Directors have considered the nature of the Groups business, with policies, determining the remuneration package of executive Directors regard to the risks to which that particular business is exposed, the and the operation of the Companys employee share based incentive likelihood of such risks occurring, their potential impact and the costs schemes.
The Group Chief Executive Officer would normally be invited of protecting against them.
However, such a system is designed to to attend meetings, if appropriate, but would not be present when his manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business own remuneration is discussed.
The Committee takes independent objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance advice as deemed necessary.
The Directors Remuneration Report is against material misstatement.
The Groups significant Risk Factors are given on pages 54 to 61, where further details of remuneration strategy included in the Business Review on pages 32 and 33. are given.
The fees paid to non-executive Directors are considered by the full Board, having regard to any relevant advice received.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Nominations Committee the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is reviewed by the The Nominations Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman Audit Committee on behalf of the Board and has been in place for the and includes five independent non-executive Directors and meets year under review, and up to the date of the approval of the Annual as necessary.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee reviews the Report.
structure, size and composition of the Board, considers succession planning for Directors and other senior executives, taking into account Primary responsibility for the operation of the system of internal the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and what skills controls is delegated to executive management.
The effectiveness of and expertise are needed on the Board in future.
The Committee is the operation of the internal control system is reviewed by an internal responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the audit function and, where appropriate, by the Companys external Board candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
auditor, who report to management and to the Audit Committee.
In addition, responsibility is delegated to an executive committee 50 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 51 corporate Governance corporate Governance to monitor the effectiveness of the systems of control in managing Communication with Shareholders identified risks as established by the Board.
The internal audit General presentations are made after the announcement of preliminary, department reviews the effectiveness of key internal controls as part quarterly and half-yearly results.
A regular programme of meetings of its standard work programme, and individual reports are issued to exists with major institutional shareholders to review the Groups appropriate senior management.
These reports are summarised and performance and prospects.
In addition, the Senior independent distributed to all members of the Audit Committee, the Group Chief non-executive Director has meetings with a range of major Executive Officer, the Group Company Secretary, senior management shareholders during the year and other non-executive Directors also of the Groups finance function and the external auditor.
They are have the opportunity to attend such meetings.
Regular feedback is subsequently reviewed by the Audit Committee, which ensures that, provided to the Board of views expressed by shareholders at these where necessary, recommendations on appropriate corrective action meetings.
are drawn to the attention of the full Board.
At general meetings there is the opportunity for all shareholders to The main features of the Groups internal control framework are: question the Chairman and other Directors including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations committees.
The The Groups strategic direction is regularly reviewed by the Board, Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially separate which sets business objectives for the Group.
Annual plans and issue put to shareholders and does not combine resolutions together performance targets for each hotel are set by the executive inappropriately.
A schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available management team and reviewed by the Board in the light of overall for inspection at the conclusion of the proceedings and the Annual objectives: Report is laid before the shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Notice of the annual general meeting and related papers are sent to Within the financial and overall objectives for the Group, agreed by shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting, the Board, the day-to-day management is delegated to the Group and the Company encourages all shareholders to make positive use of Chief Executive Officer and executive management.
The executive the Companys annual general meeting for communication with the management team receives a monthly summary of the results Board.
from the business and carries out regular operational reviews with business managers to ensure appropriate pursuit of the overall objectives and management of the primary risks of the Group.
50 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 51
