coRpoRAte GoVeRNANce RepoRt the Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Responsibilities governance.
it is accountable to the companys shareholders for the Board is responsible to the shareholders for the conduct of good governance in its management of the affairs of the Group.
the companys business and determines Group strategy, reviews the Board confirms that the company was fully compliant with all trading performance, ensures adequate funding and examines the provisions of the 2006 combined code on corporate major investments.
it has a formal schedule of matters reserved Governance the code throughout the year ended 31 May 2008, for its decision including approval of the accounts and dividends, except as indicated and explained below alphanumeric significant strategic decisions, fixed forecast, transactions, references are to provisions of the code : settlement of litigation over a certain threshold, fundamental changes to the internal control system, the adoption of new A.
3.1: this provision requires that the Board identify in the annual employee incentivisation plans, and the delegation of authority to report all the non-executive Directors it considers to be committees, individual Directors and officers.
the full schedule is independent taking into consideration the existence of certain available on the companys website.
relationships and circumstances which might affect their judgement.
Having conducted a review, the Board considers all in light of the integrity of the individual Directors and of the the non-executive Directors to be independent in accordance current balance of two executive Directors, the non-executive with provision A.
3.1 of the code, save as explained below.
in doing chairman and four non-executive Directors, the Board is of the so, the Board weighed a number of factors including whether view that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate each non-executive Director is objective, provides a challenge to the Boards decision taking.
management, is prepared to challenge the views of others, demonstrates a good understanding of the business, has the best the chairman is responsible for running the Board and carrying interests of the company in mind and has no relationships or out the duties enumerated under the code, including ensuring circumstances that are likely to affect his judgement.
the senior independent Director provides an alternative to the chairman as a the Board specifically considered the independence of Jeff Ubben Board-level contact for shareholders.
on his appointment to the Board in January 2007 in view of his connection with one of the companys significant shareholders, the chief executive is supported in the management of the ValueAct, and determined then that this relationship would not business and, in particular, in the implementation of the affect his independence, judgement or frankness.
in March 2008, turnaround strategy launched in March 2007, by a team of senior ValueAct entered into a placing and underwriting agreement with executives, including the cFo an executive Director, who the company in relation to the proposed merger of Misys constitute the executive Vice presidents eVps.
the eVps report Healthcare systems, LLc with a subsidiary of Allscripts Healthcare to the chief executive and meet with him in person or by solutions, inc. the Merger.
Jeff Ubben attended the meetings at telephone as a group every two weeks to discuss operational which the Board deliberated on the Merger but did not count in the matters.
operational responsibility for the strategic development quorum or vote on any matters related to the Merger and this will of the Group is shared among the chief executive and the eVps, continue to be the position until, and if, the Merger formally with input from other senior managers around the Group.
if the placing completes, ValueActs holding in the company is expected to increase to approximately 25%.
in light the chief executive and the eVps report regularly to the Board on of this, in July 2008 the Board again reviewed Mr Ubbens all significant operational and strategic initiatives.
independence and determined that, on balance, for combined code purposes, it would no longer treat him as independent.
A formal procedure exists to allow the Directors, in appropriate circumstances, to take independent professional advice in respect c. 3.1: this provision requires that all the members of the Audit of their duties, with any fees incurred being paid by the company.
committee must be independent under the code.
Jeff Ubben has in addition, all Directors may seek advice from the company been a non-voting member of that committee for the greater part secretary, who also acts as General counsel.
in view of the Boards determination in July 2008 that Jeff Ubben is no longer independent under the Independence code, it has been agreed that he will step down from the Audit the non-executive Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate committee and be replaced by Al-Noor Ramji with effect from accountability by bringing their independent judgement to bear on 22 July 2008. issues brought before the Board and Board committees.
they bring considerable knowledge and experience from other areas of As described below in the section on the work of the Nomination business and public life, together with an international committee, the Board is actively seeking to recruit at least one perspective, and their views carry significant weight in the Boards additional independent non-executive Director.
At least once a year, they also meet as a group without executive Directors being present.
The Board Composition the question of Jeff Ubbens independence under provision A.
3.1 At the date of this report, the Board comprises the chairman, two of the code has been addressed above.
sir Dominic cadbury was executive Directors and four non-executive Directors.
their considered to be independent on his appointment as chairman.
biographies appear on pages 34 to 35. the changes in the Under the code, after appointment the test of independence is no composition of the Board are set out in the Directors report on longer appropriate in relation to a chairman.
pages 36 to 38. the Board collectively has a wide range of relevant business, financial and international experience, which is the non-executive Directors met as a group in May 2008 for two vital to the successful direction of a global company.
the first was to discuss, with the chairman present, the results of the performance evaluation of the chief executive.
the second was to discuss, in the absence of the Misys plc Annual Report 2008 | 39 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager coRpoRAte GoVeRNANce RepoRt chairman and led by the senior independent Director, the the overall average scores.
these results formed one of the bases performance of the chairman and other issues.
As and when for further discussion by the Board collectively, and by the nonrequired, there are update calls for members of the Board in executive Directors in respect of the evaluation of the between Board meetings.
committees, the performance of the chairman and the chief executive.
the review identified a few areas which should be As part of its evaluation of the performance of the Board, the addressed, including widening the composition of the Board as Board has reviewed the availability of the non-executive Directors, well as continuing to improve the flow and types of management including the chairman.
Al-Noor Ramji, a non-executive Director, information made available to the non-executive Directors.
is the only Director due for re-election at the 2008 AGM and the Board considers that he is able to devote the necessary amount Board Committees of time to the business of the company.
Responsibilities at Board level are divided among six standing Board committees.
these committees operate within formally No executive Director has a non-executive directorship with a defined written terms of reference that are available on request Ftse 100 company.
Mike Lawrie is a non-executive Director of and from the companys website.
these oversight roles are Juniper Networks, inc. complemented by an active internal audit function.
Further details on internal control are provided in the section below.
Board processes Details of membership of the Board committees are set out one of the responsibilities of the chairman is to ensure that on pages 34 to 35.
Board members receive sufficient and timely information regarding corporate and business issues to enable them to During the year the Board reviewed the composition of its discharge their duties and to enable them to make further standing committees.
it was agreed to leave the membership of enquiries where necessary.
the Board regularly reviews the the committees unchanged for now, but to revisit this as and quality and quantity of this information and recommends when new non-executive Directors join the Board.
adjustments as necessary or advisable.
on a regular basis, the Board receives detailed presentations from senior management the Audit Committee was chaired by John ormerod, who has from around the Group on the businesses, product strategy, recent and relevant financial experience.
its other members during partnerships, new opportunities for the Group, and other matters the year were John King and Jeff Ubben a non-voting member.
the Board meets at least eight times a year, Dr Jrgen Zech served on the committee until his retirement on mainly in person but occasionally by telephone, and aims to hold 19 september 2007.
As described above, Jeff Ubben has stepped two meetings each year overseas, one of which is combined with down from the committee and been replaced by Al-Noor Ramji a two-day conference involving an in-depth review of Group with effect from 22 July 2008. the committee met eight times strategy as well as meetings with senior management.
During the during 2007 08 2006 07: five times, with the cFo, Group Financial year three meetings were held in the Us.
in addition to the controller, Group treasurer, representatives from internal Audit scheduled meetings, during the year the Board held a number of and the external auditors,  LLp pwc meetings to consider the Merger.
invited to attend as appropriate.
the Board also reviews periodically whether the format and During the year the committee took the decision to outsource the number of regularly scheduled meetings is appropriate for the internal audit function and appointed KpMG LLp KpMG to this anticipated needs of the business.
shortly thereafter, the existing Head of internal Audit resigned to take up another role and left the company in January Training 2008.
Jenny Morgan, a partner of KpMG, acts as Head of internal the chairman is also charged with ensuring that all new Board Audit and has direct access to the committee chairman.
members are equipped to fulfil their duties and responsibilities.
As part of the early familiarisation programme, new nonDuring the year the committee met in private session with pwc executive Directors are encouraged to meet the executive three times, the Head of internal Audit once, and with the cFo Directors individually and engage in an induction programme of and other senior management on four occasions.
the committee visits to different businesses within the Group where they have also met KpMG in July 2008. on a number of occasions during the the opportunity to meet the senior management.
All Directors year, the committee chairman has held meetings with pwc and receive training about their duties, significant changes in the law separately with the Head of internal Audit and with KpMG.
and the sectors in which the company operates.
the committees duties include: to receive reports from the Board evaluation Groups external and internal auditors: to review and to report to During the second half of the year the Directors conducted, by the Board on draft financial information prior to publication: to way of a detailed questionnaire and discussion, an evaluation of oversee and keep under review the relationship with the Groups the performance of the Board collectively, of its four principal external auditors: to review the effectiveness and reliability of the committees Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and executive, of Groups system of internal control and the internal audit function: the chairman, of the chief executive, and of individual Directors.
to review any changes to financial reporting requirements: and to As part of this latter evaluation, the chairman makes himself consider matters arising from the annual Group audit.
available to discuss any issues regarding individual performance or any areas of concern.
the company secretary analysed the the committee recognises that the independence of the Groups questionnaires and provided initial feedback to the chairman and auditors is of paramount importance to shareholders and has the senior independent Director.
the Board received and reviewed established a policy for monitoring and approving the level of non- 40 | Misys plc Annual Report 2008 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager audit fees e. g. accounting, tax or other financial consultancy assessments of the requirements of the Board as a whole.
Under related work paid to the Group auditors in order to identify and its terms of reference, the committee oversees the search and minimise any potential conflicts of interest.
the policy prohibits selection process for new Directors and aims to do so in using pwc in projects which represent a real threat to the compliance with the recommendations under the code.
As such independence of the audit team such as where the external the committee seeks to make appointments on merit and against auditor would be in a position where it is auditing its own work objective criteria.
the committee also seeks to satisfy itself that e. g. financial systems implementations or where there is evident there are in place plans for orderly succession of appointments to self-interest, for example where an interest in the outcome of the Board and to senior management positions.
in the latter part their work might conflict with the auditors objectivity.
if pwc is to of the year, the committee launched a search via a recruitment be considered for the provision of non-audit services such as tax firm for at least one additional independent non-executive advice and compliance, due diligence work in relation to Director with relevant financial or managerial experience and who acquisitions the scope and fees must be approved in advance by will be UK-based.
committee members will be invited to meet the the cFo and the committee secretary and, in the case of fees in short-listed candidates.
excess of 50,000 for a single project, by the committee chairman.
this may involve a competitive tender process unless the Remuneration Committee was chaired by John King.
the there are compelling commercial or timescale reasons to use committee consists of all the non-executive Directors, other than pwc.
At each meeting the committee is advised of any significant Jeff Ubben, and meets when necessary, but at least three times a non-audit work awarded to pwc since the previous meeting year.
it met five times during the year nine times during 2006 07 which will already have been approved by the committee and participants attended either in person or by telephone.
the chairman as described above.
At its July meeting the committee chief executive and other Directors are invited to attend the receives a full report of pwcs fees, both audit and non-audit fees, committees meetings as the members consider appropriate.
during the past financial year.
the non-audit fees paid to pwc Details of the committees main functions, and its remuneration amounted to 3.2m or 73% of total fees paid: the bulk of these policies for the companys Directors and senior executives, are fees 2.3m is for services in relation to the Merger.
the provided in the Remuneration report on pages 44 to 52. committee believes that the quality of the audit process was not adversely affected by pwcs non-audit work for the Group.
the Treasury Committee was established by the Board to review the function and operation of the Groups centralised treasury, the committee has a policy prohibiting the hiring of former whose primary role is to manage the foreign exchange, interest employees of the external auditor into certain roles within the rate, liquidity and credit risks arising from the operation of the Group within two years following their association with the audit, business.
the committee is governed by written terms of unless the chairman of the Audit committee gives prior consent.
reference and meets as necessary, reporting its decisions to the Annually the committee is advised of any new hires caught by next meeting of the Board.
its membership comprises the chief this policy.
No such circumstances arose in the year ended executive, the cFo, the Group treasurer and John ormerod as 31 May 2008. the non-executive Director nominated by the Board.
the minimum attendance required for a quorum is two Directors, one of whom During the year the committees work has included: must be the chief executive or the cFo.
reviewing the Groups draft 2007 financial statements and the Executive Committee was established by the Board in January 2008 interim results, and related announcements prior to 2007 to facilitate the management of the business and affairs of Board approval, together with pwcs reports thereon: the company in the interim between meetings of the Board of reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting Directors.
its membership comprises three or more directors and policies: its current members are the chief executive, the chairman of the receiving and reviewing reports on the Groups risk Board and the senior independent Director.
it is chaired by the management processes and the key risks associated with the chief executive.
it may exercise all of the powers and authority of Groups businesses: the Board within certain parameters set out in its terms of reviewing periodic reports from the internal audit function: reference.
the minutes of the executive committee meetings reviewing and approving pwcs terms of engagement, fees are circulated to all members of the Board for information.
and non-audit fees: and reviewing pwcs strategy for the audit of the 2008 financial the General Purposes Committee transacts routine business of statements.
the Board, principally in relation to the companys employee share plans.
the committee operates within clearly defined the Nomination Committee has sir Dominic cadbury as its acting written terms of reference and financial limits.
it consists of all the non-executive Directors including necessary and reports to the Board on its decisions on a regular the chairman, other than Jeff Ubben.
it meets as necessary, basis.
All the Directors, together with the company secretary, are liaising closely with the chief executive.
it met twice during members of the committee, with a minimum of two Directors 2007 08 three times during 2006 07. it assesses the suitability of required to attend.
persons for appointment as Directors and, when appropriate, nominates new candidates for the approval of the Board.
the committee plays an important role in succession planning for the Board and key senior executives and performs regular Misys plc Annual Report 2008 | 41 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager coRpoRAte GoVeRNANce RepoRt the Attendance Record of each Director during the year is set out below: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board committee committee committee Number of meetings held during the year 12 8 2 5 sir Dominic cadbury 12 2 5 J G King 11 8 2 5 J ormerod 11 8 2 5 A Ramji 10 2 3 J Ubben 12 7 Dr J Zech to 19 september 2007 3 3 4 4 1 1 2 2 M Lawrie 12 J Malone appointed 19 June 2007 12 H evans to 29 June 2007 0 1 For each of those Directors who joined or stepped down from the Board during the year, the figure in brackets indicates the maximum number of meetings he could have attended.
the executive committee, General purposes committee and which provides shareholders with the opportunity to question the treasury committee hold a number of ad hoc meetings attended chairman and the Board.
the company responds as necessary to by the Directors and accordingly are not included in the above enquiries from individual shareholders on a wide range of issues.
All the Directors attended the 2007 AGM.
the financial and other information, including presentations to Relations with shareholders analysts and investors in audio, video and text formats, are made the company acknowledges the importance of maintaining a available on the companys website.
Further details are contained purposeful relationship with its investors.
the chairman and in the investor information section on page 99. executive Directors hold briefing meetings with financial analysts and institutional shareholders, including presentations following Internal control the interim and final results announcements, and their views are the Board of Directors has responsibility for the system of communicated to the Board.
internal control which covers all aspects of the business.
in recognition of that responsibility, the Directors set policies and in addition, business and market briefings are held periodically to seek assurance that the system of internal control is operating ensure that the analysts and investing community receive a effectively.
strategic, operational, financial, and compliance areas broader view of the Groups operations and the issues faced by are all within the scope of these activities, which also includes the business.
During the year the following seminars were held to identifying, evaluating and managing the related risks.
provide an opportunity for analysts and investors to gain a deeper understanding of various areas of the business: in November 2007 the following section summarises the Groups system of internal in New York on Misys treasury & capital Markets: in April 2008 in control which comprises a number of distinct individual processes London on Misys Banking: and in May 2008 in Raleigh, North and procedures that, when taken together, provide a reasonable, carolina on Misys Healthcare.
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the executive Directors regularly conduct one-on-one and or group meetings with institutional shareholders.
the chairman, the Audit committee reviews the system of internal control on the senior independent Director, and the non-executive Directors, behalf of the Board.
it carries out this review principally through are available to meet with shareholders on request.
During the reports from management on the significant risks facing the year, a number of meetings with major shareholders were held to Group, and a specific review of plans for, and the results of, discuss the disposal of Misys Hospital systems, inc, the Merger, internal and external audit work, and other relevant reports up to the proposals for new share plans which will be put to the 2008 the signing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
the Audit AGM for approval, and other strategic issues.
committee considers any significant control matters raised in reports from management, and by the internal and external the Board, including the non-executive Directors, has access to auditors.
Where weaknesses are identified, the Audit committee the services of Makinson cowell, which provides independent requires appropriate action to be taken by management and advice concerning the relationship between the company and its receives periodic reports on the implementation of those actions.
institutional investors, and produces regular written reports to the Audit committee reports its findings regularly to the Board.
the Directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility the principal communications with private investors are through for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its the companys website www.
com, the annual report and effectiveness and confirm that they have reviewed its financial statements, the interim report, the interim management effectiveness during the year.
All the Directors aim to attend the AGM, 42 | Misys plc Annual Report 2008 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager Risk management system of operating unit control procedures the development and update of the Groups strategic plan, which is Business unit performance and internal control are monitored by reviewed by the Board, is based in part on the periodic identification regular divisional management meetings, which are attended and management of key risks and opportunities.
the turnaround periodically by Misys Group executives.
Financial controls and programme, which is in its second year of implementation, is procedures are detailed in a Group Finance Manual, which is bringing about changes to the Groups operations, purchasing regularly updated, circulated to all business units, and published procedures and supply chain, products and services.
As expected, on the Groups intranet.
in addition, the monitoring role of the these changes have started to alter the risk profile of the business.
central finance function has been strengthened in the year, KpMG was commissioned to undertake an assessment of the key focusing on higher risk areas such as revenue recognition, and risks facing the Group and presented their findings to the Audit fixed fee contracts.
each operating units general manager and committee in september 2007. chief financial officer is also required to certify in writing compliance or identify cases of non-compliance with the Groups in response to the changes in the business, the Group continues policies and procedures, including the internal financial control to enhance its risk management processes which are designed to and the whistle-blowing policies.
identify, evaluate and manage the key business, operational, financial and compliance risks that are considered to be internal audit important to the Group.
the Group utilises internal audit resource supplied by KpMG under an outsourcing agreement.
the internal audit function the risk management process involves each division periodically facilitates managements strategic risk assessment.
this is reviewing the most important risks to which the business is approved by the Audit committee, and forms the basis of a riskexposed and the control processes in place that manage and or based internal audit plan.
mitigate the potential exposure to those risks.
the reviews performed by internal audit, as part of the plan, the business risks and controls are then evaluated by the senior provide objective assurance over the processes and controls in management team who determine which risks, in their opinion, place to manage the selected key strategic risks, making are the most significant to the Group overall.
senior executives recommendations for business and control improvements as are given responsibility to deal with any items requiring action required.
Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations, and decisions are then taken as to the most appropriate method and these are followed up by the Audit committee to ensure that of managing them.
closed-door meetings between the committee and the Head of internal Audit, outside the Financial monitoring and reporting presence of management, are also periodically held.
on an annual once a year the Board approves a budget.
the Group operates a basis the Audit committee reviews the remit and effectiveness of system of rolling forecasts, such that forecasts covering the next the internal audit function.
12 months are always available to management.
the actual results, including key performance indicators, are reported on a the process and systems described above have been in place monthly basis and both the monthly and cumulative results are during the financial year ended 31 May 2008, or were adopted compared with the budget, the latest forecast and with the prior during the year in response to changes in the risk profile.
there is a high emphasis placed on cash generation remained in place up to the date of the approval of the Annual with cash flows and balances monitored at business, divisional Report and Accounts.
and Group level by a system of weekly and monthly cash reports.
treasury and taxation policies are reviewed at least annually and on behalf of the Board are themselves subject to regular reporting to the Board.
Dan Fitz Authority levels EVP General Counsel and Company Secretary A clearly defined management and organisational structure has 24 July 2008 been established.
there are defined responsibilities which are retained by the Board.
Defined levels of authority delegated to management at Group, divisional and business unit level are established for the approval of major development projects, contractual and other commitments of a revenue nature and capital expenditure.
Authority levels are reviewed periodically and approved by the Group or divisional Board as appropriate.
investment appraisal potential capital investment or acquisition opportunities are reviewed rigorously against the Groups standards for investment return, growth potential and normal terms and conditions before contractual commitment.
Misys plc Annual Report 2008 | 43 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
