Reports Corporate governance report Corporate governance report The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance in creating a sustainable, successful and profitable business.
It is committed to compliance with the principles of corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
The Board considers that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 27 September 2008 with all the provisions of the Combined Code, except those in respect of Board composition and the Senior Independent Director as described below.
Board composition At the start of the year, the Board comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, four independent NonExecutive Directors and four Executive Directors.
Drummond Hall Chairman During the year, various changes were made to the composition of the Board.
Tony Hughes, Managing Director, Restaurants retired on 31 December 2007 and Adam Fowle was appointed to the Board to replace him on 1 October 2007.
During this handover period there were five Executive Directors and four independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board, excluding the Chairman.
On 29 January 2008, Karim Naffah resigned as Finance Director and on 31 January 2008 Jeremy Townsend, who was previously the Deputy Finance Director, was appointed as Finance Director.
The Company instigated a strategic review which was completed in May 2008.
This review concluded that the Company should pursue the implementation of a REIT or other appropriate OpCo PropCo structure to ensure that the value of both the property and the operating business were more fully captured for shareholders.
In order to support this strategic objective, the Nomination Committee sought to augment the property expertise on the Board.
Although an external agency would normally be used for non-executive appointments, the Nomination Committee recognised the interests of the Companys major shareholder and the specific property expertise of Aaron Brown and Tim Smalley, both from R20 Ltd.
Accordingly, it recommended their appointment to the Board as Non-Executive Directors.
Aaron and Tim joined the Board on 20 June 2008.
Because of their association with Violet Capital Group Ltd, the Board concluded that neither Aaron nor Tim should be determined independent.
After the year end and following the disposal by Violet Capital Group Ltd of its significant shareholding, both Aaron and Tim immediately stepped down from the Board on 8 October 2008.
Neither Aaron Brown nor Tim Smalley sat on the Audit, Remuneration or Nomination Committees.
As the calibre of the independent NonExecutive Directors is extremely high and due consideration was given to the interests of shareholders as a whole, the Board is satisfied that the Combined Code requirement to take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company was met throughout the year.
Drummond Hall, who became Deputy Chairman on 26 February 2008, was appointed Chairman of the Board on 20 June 2008 replacing Roger Carr who resigned on that date.
Although neither an external search company nor open advertising was used in making this appointment, the Nomination Committee explicitly considered the prospect of recruiting an external candidate when Roger Carr advised the Board that he intended to step down but decided that, on balance, Corporate governance report Board continuity and stability were more important.
The Nomination The Board is responsible for ensuring compliance with Committee, having considered his existing appointments, recognised the Combined Code.
This includes reviewing internal controls, ensuring that there is an appropriate balance that Drummond had the appropriate knowledge of the business and of skills and experience represented on the Board experience to take on this role and recommended to the Board his and maintaining relations with shareholders.
Roger Carr was not involved in the selection of the new Chairman.
The Board now consists of the part-time Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive Directors and three independent Non-Executive Directors.
A recruitment process, led by the Nomination Committee For our latest financial information, go to: using an external agency, is underway to effect an appropriate www.
com investors balance between the independent Non-Executive Directors and Mitchells & Butlers 46 Annual report and accounts 2008 415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Reports the Executive Directors on the Board.
This process is expected Current Directors biographical details are set out on pages 40 and to be completed during the year.
41 and these include their main commitments outside the Company.
Board and committee structure The Company ensures that Directors submit themselves for re-election To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Board at least every three years.
and committee structure operates as set out below.
George Fairweather, Sir Tim Lankester and Tim Clarke will retire by The Board rotation and offer themselves for reappointment at the 2009 AGM During FY 2008 there were 22 Board meetings including a two day on 29 January.
Jeremy Townsend, having been appointed since the off-site meeting which considered the Groups strategy.
As certain last AGM, will also stand for reappointment at the 2009 AGM.
meetings were called at short notice, Tony Hughes was unable to attend one meeting and George Fairweather and Sir Tim Lankester More information about the Directors standing for reappointment is were unable to attend four and three such meetings respectively.
Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, he was provided with all the papers and information relating to that meeting and was Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out able to discuss issues arising with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
on page 53 and are available on the website.
The Chairman and There are nine Board meetings and one supplementary meeting the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which are currently planned for 2009. available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours and at the place of the Annual General Meeting The Board is responsible to shareholders for the strategic direction, from at least 15 minutes before and until the end of the meeting.
development and control of the Group.
It therefore approves strategic plans and annual capital and revenue budgets.
It reviews significant Chairman investment proposals and the performance of past investments and Drummond Hall is the Chairman of the Board.
He ensures that maintains an overview and control of the Groups operating and appropriate communication is maintained with shareholders.
It monitors the Groups overall system of internal responsibility for the smooth running of the Board and for ensuring controls, governance and compliance and ensures that the necessary that all Directors are fully informed of matters relevant to their roles.
financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its He also chairs the Nomination Committee.
The Board has established a schedule of matters which are reserved for its attention which are published on the Companys website.
Chief Executive Tim Clarke is the Chief Executive and has responsibility for The Board has adopted objective written criteria for the appointment implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for the executive of Directors and the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Nonmanagement of the Group.
Executive Directors have been defined in writing.
Senior Independent Director The Executive Directors may be permitted to accept one external Drummond Hall relinquished the position of Senior Independent non-executive director appointment with the Companys prior Director on his appointment as Chairman of the Board on 20 June approval and as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
It is expected that following the The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good appointment of a new independent Non-Executive Director, this information flows to the Board and its committees and between senior position will be filled.
management and the Non-Executive Directors.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Non-Executive Directors The Company Secretary is responsible through the Chairman for The Company has experienced Non-Executive Directors.
In addition to advising the Board on all corporate governance matters and for the Chairman, who was independent upon his appointment, the Board assisting the Directors with their professional development.
This considers Sara Weller, George Fairweather and Sir Tim Lankester includes regular corporate governance and business issues updates, to be wholly independent as they are free from any business or other as well as the use of operational site visits and the provision of relationship which could materially influence their judgement and external courses where required.
During the year, the Company they represent a strong source of advice and independent challenge.
Secretary facilitated a comprehensive induction for the newly In addition, from 20 June 2008 to 8 October 2008 there were two appointed Directors, tailored to individual requirements.
Non-Executive Directors, Aaron Brown and Tim Smalley who, because they were connected to the Companys largest shareholder at the time, Directors Violet Capital Group Ltd, were not regarded as independent.
The following were Directors of the Company during the year: Other than their fees which are disclosed on page 58, the independent Appointed Resigned Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration from the Company Roger Carr Chairman 10 02 03 20 06 08 during the year.
When Non-Executive Directors are considered for Tim Clarke Chief Executive 10 02 03 appointment, the Nomination Committee will take into account their Mike Bramley Managing Director, Pubs & Bars 15 04 03 other responsibilities in assessing whether they can commit sufficient George Fairweather Independent Non-Executive Director 15 04 03 time to their prospective directorship.
Tony Hughes Managing Director, Restaurants 15 04 03 31 12 07 Karim Naffah Finance Director 15 04 03 29 01 08 All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers Sara Weller Independent Non-Executive Director 15 04 03 circulated in advance of Board meetings and by presentations Sir Tim Lankester Independent Non-Executive Director 16 05 03 at the meetings in addition to receiving minutes of previous meetings.
Drummond Hall Chairman from 20 06 08 30 07 04 Their understanding of the Groups business is enhanced by business Adam Fowle Managing Director, Restaurants 01 10 07 specific presentations and operational visits to the Companys Jeremy Townsend Finance Director 31 01 08 businesses.
Separate strategy meetings and meetings with senior Aaron Brown Non-Executive Director 20 06 08 executives are attended.
The training needs of Directors are formally Tim Smalley Non-Executive Director 20 06 08 considered on an annual basis.
Both Aaron Brown and Tim Smalley resigned from the Board after the year end on 8 October 2008 Mitchells & Butlers 47 Annual report and accounts 2008 Reports Corporate governance report continued Committees General Purposes Committee The Committees of the Board each have written terms of reference The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Executive approved by the Board, which are available on the Companys Directors or any one Executive Director together with a senior officer website.
from an agreed and restricted list of senior executives.
It is always chaired by a Director.
It attends to business of a routine nature Audit Committee and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have The Audit Committee, which is chaired by George Fairweather, consists been agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate committee.
of the three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Drummond Hall was a member of this Committee until his appointment as Chairman Disclosure Committee of the Board.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the The Disclosure Committee considers and decides upon matters Finance Director attend at the invitation of the Committees Chairman.
brought to its attention, which would be likely to give rise to an During FY 2008 the Committee met four times.
obligation to make a market announcement under the UKLA Listing Rules.
It comprises the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, Further details about the Committee are included in the Audit the Director of Investor Relations and the Company Secretary.
Executive Committee Remuneration Committee The Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive, During the year, the Remuneration Committee, which is chaired consists of the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives by Sara Weller, comprised the independent Non-Executive Directors as shown on pages 40 and 41. and the Chairman.
This Committee met seven times during FY 2008.
The Executive Committee meets every four weeks and has day-to-day Further details about the Remuneration Committee are included responsibility for the running of the Groups business.
It develops the in the Remuneration report on page 52.
Groups strategy and annual revenue and capital budgets for Board approval.
It reviews and recommends to the Board any significant Nomination Committee investment proposals.
This Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board, who chairs the Committee, the independent Non-Executive Directors and This Committee monitors the financial and operational performance the Chief Executive.
The Company Secretary is secretary to this of the Group and allocates resources within the budgets agreed by Committee.
The terms of reference for this Committee are consistent the Board.
It considers employment issues, ensures the Group has an with the requirements of the Combined Code.
The Nomination appropriate pool of talent and develops senior management manpower Committee is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the planning and succession plans.
Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
It is also responsible for succession planning and reviewing the output of the Board Independent advice effectiveness review.
Members of the Board may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and they have access to the advice and It met three times during the year to consider inter alia succession services of the Company Secretary, the Companys legal advisers and planning and to recommend the appointment of Drummond Hall as external auditors.
It also recommended the appointment of Jeremy Townsend as Finance Director.
The Committee considered whether it was Internal control appropriate to have representation from the Companys major The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control shareholder on the Board and the necessity of strengthening the and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to property experience of the Board and, accordingly, it recommended discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the procedures the appointments of Aaron Brown and Tim Smalley to the Board.
necessary to apply the Combined Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
These There was full attendance at each meeting, except that Roger Carr procedures have been in place since the Group was listed and are and Drummond Hall did not attend the meeting to consider the regularly reviewed by the Board.
In particular, the Board conducted Chairmans appointment.
a thorough review of its processes following the closure of the hedges in January 2008.
The review recognised the role of the Non-Executive Property Committee Directors in constructively challenging Board proposals and the The Property Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board, the importance in identifying potential conflicts in managing the Company Chief Executive, the Finance Director, an independent Non-Executive for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
Director and up to two further Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Property Committee was constituted in July 2008 following the strategic review, and it provides advice and assistance to the Board on the implementation of its strategy to effect the optimum realisation of the Company's property value.
The Committee also provides advice and assistance to the Board in its evaluation of property-related aspects of any transactions in excess of 4m in value.
This Committee has met once since its formation in July 2008.
Mitchells & Butlers 48 Annual report and accounts 2008 415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Reports Business performance is managed closely and the Board and the Board effectiveness evaluation Executive Committee have established processes, as part of the normal This year the Board carried out a formal Board Governance good management of the business, to monitor: Assessment including a review of the membership and effectiveness of strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series of its principal committees and of the performance of individual Directors strategic reviews: with the assistance of Professor Goffee of the London Business School.
financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework: The process included the completion of a detailed questionnaire capital investment and asset management performance, with by each Board member and included an opportunity to make detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews: comments.
The areas covered were the Board's role and consumer insight data and actions to evolve brands and formats its organisation, the Board dynamic and relationships, quality to ensure that they continue to be appealing and relevant: and of information flows and decision-making, Board committees, risk management, through an ongoing process, which accords performance monitoring and Board priority tasks.
with the Turnbull Guidance and provides assurance, through reports from Group Assurance, that the significant risks faced by The output was compiled into a report prepared by Professor Goffee the Group are being identified, evaluated and appropriately which he presented to the Board and which was considered by managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
The Chairman subsequently discussed this output with the Chief Executive and the Non-Executive Directors In addition, the Audit Committee receives: and the Chief Executive discussed it with the Executive Directors.
reports from Group Assurance on the work carried out under the annual internal audit plan: and The evaluations concluded that the Board and its committees reports from the external auditors.
continued to be effective and that all Directors had a good range of experience, contributed effectively to Board discussions and Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board has retained a high level of commitment to their roles.
conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year ended 27 September 2008.
The system During the year the Non-Executive Directors met without the of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Executive Directors present, and the Non-Executive Directors also the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, it can met without the Chairman present, led by Sara Weller, to appraise the only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Chairman's performance.
The outcome of this appraisal was positive misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion and confirmed that he remained committed to, and devoted sufficient of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective time to, his role.
or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change to this status up to the approval of this Annual report.
With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure against every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
Shareholder relations The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Company.
The Company formally updates the market on its financial performance at least five times a year, at the interim and preliminary results in May and November respectively, the interim management statements in January and July and a pre-close trading update in September.
The Company has a regular programme of meetings with its major institutional shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, on the back of publicly available information, the progress of the business.
The Company also commissions an independent survey of investors each year to determine external views of the Company, the feedback is then used by the Board to inform the Company's future direction.
On a more informal basis, the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director regularly report to the Board the views of major shareholders about the Company, and the Non-Executive Directors are available to meet shareholders on request.
The content of these briefings is posted and webcast on the Companys website, together with general information about the Company so as to be available to all shareholders.
The AGM provides a useful interface with private shareholders, many of whom are also customers.
All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees attend to answer questions.
Mitchells & Butlers 49 Annual report and accounts 2008
