Reports Audit Committee report The Companys Audit Committee the Committee has met the requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance throughout the year.
A copy of the Committees terms of reference is publicly available within the Investors section of the Companys website.
Role of the Audit Committee The Committees principal responsibilities are to: review the Companys public statements on internal control and corporate governance compliance prior to their consideration by the Board: review the Companys processes for detecting fraud, misconduct and control weaknesses and to consider the Companys response George Fairweather to any such occurrence: Chairman of the Audit Committee review managements evaluation of any change in internal controls over financial reporting: review with management and the external auditors any financial statements required under UK legislation before submission to the Board: establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness of the Group Assurance function: assume direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation, resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the external auditors, including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness: pre-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the external auditors and the fees to be paid for that work together with the monitoring of the external auditors independence: oversee the process for dealing with complaints received by the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters and the confidential, anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters: and adopt and oversee a specific Code of Ethics for the Executive Directors, the Executive Committee and all other senior managers which is consistent with the Companys overall statement of business ethics.
Audit Committee composition The Committee is chaired by George Fairweather who, as a Chartered Accountant and the finance director of a former FTSE 100 company, has current and relevant financial experience and is considered to be the Committees financial expert.
The Committees other members are Sir Tim Lankester and Sara Weller.
Drummond Hall was also a member until his appointment as Chairman of the Board.
The Committee wishes to retain the knowledge, experience and judgement of the Chairman of the Board, but, reflecting recommendations within the Smith Guidance, he is not a member of the Committee but attends at the invitation of the Committees Chairman.
The Committee regularly invites the external auditors, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Director of Group Assurance & Risk to its meetings.
The Company Secretary attends and is secretary to the Committee.
Discussions are held in private when appropriate.
All of the Committees members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committees responsibilities include: Reviewing the process for detecting fraud, misconduct and internal control weaknesses Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group Assurance function Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors For our latest financial information, go to: www.
com investors Mitchells & Butlers 50 Annual report and accounts 2008 415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Reports Audit Committee frequency The Companys public financial statements are reviewed by the The Committee meets at least four times a year.
During FY 2008 four Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
Adequate full meetings of the Committee were held and all members attended time is allowed between the Committees review and the Boards each of these meetings.
approval for any actions or further work requested by the Committee to be completed.
Audit Committee process The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as defined in its External auditors independence terms of reference, through a series of Audit Committee meetings The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external throughout the year at which detailed reports are presented for auditors for non-audit work which is in compliance with the Combined review.
The Committee commissions reports from external advisers, Code.
The external auditors may carry out certain specified non-audit the Director of Group Assurance & Risk, or Company management, work in areas that have been pre-approved by the Committee, up to either after consideration of the Companys major risks or in response a monetary limit of half the audit fee per transaction and subject to to developing issues.
The Committee meets privately with the external an annual total cap of no more than the audit fee.
Any other work auditors and the Director of Group Assurance & Risk at least four for which management wishes to utilise the external auditors must times a year and liaises with Company management in considering be approved by the Committee.
In this regard the Committee areas for review.
specifically considered and approved managements request to use Ernst & Young for one transaction during the year where management During the year, the Committee considered the following matters: considered that Ernst & Young were best placed to provide the service, interim and full year financial results: having evaluated the relevant knowledge base and cost effectiveness the scope and cost of the external audit: of using other firms.
non-audit work carried out by the external auditors and trends in the non-audit fees in accordance with the Committees policy Approved by the Board to ensure the safeguard of audit independence: George Fairweather the scope of the annual internal audit plan, the Internal Audit Chairman of the Audit Committee departments terms of reference, its resourcing and external 25 November 2008 support: the external auditors interim and full year reports: periodic internal control and assurance reports from the Internal Audit function: the effectiveness of the external auditors and consideration of their reappointment: periodic reports on allegations made via the Groups whistleblowing procedures and the effectiveness of these procedures: the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: the appointment of a new Director of Group Assurance & Risk: management representations granted to the external auditors and the Companys procedures to ensure all relevant audit information has been disclosed: major changes in the Groups internal controls: the co-ordination of the internal and external audit functions: the Groups framework for the identification and control of major risks, its Risk and Assurance Mitigation Plan and the annual assessment of control effectiveness: compliance with the code of ethics for the Executive Directors, other members of the Executive Committee and all other senior managers: corporate governance developments: review of the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and practices: the status of material litigation involving the Group: and the Committees own terms of reference, membership and its effectiveness.
Mitchells & Butlers 51 Annual report and accounts 2008
