Corporate governance report Mondi operates under a dual listed company DLC structure, which requires compliance with the corporate and accounting regulations of South Africa and the UK.
Boards of directors Introduction Pursuant to the DLC structure under which Mondi operates, the Boards Mondi is committed to strong ethical values and are identical.
The Boards manage Mondi as if it were a single unified professionalism in all its activities.
economic enterprise and, in addition to their duties to the company concerned, have regard to the interests of the ordinary shareholders As an essential part of this commitment the of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc in the management of the boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc together Mondi Group.
the Boards support the highest standards of As at 31 December 2008 there were nine directors: the joint chairmen, corporate governance and best practice and three executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
are committed to the principles of transparency, This provides a good balance between executive and non-executive integrity and accountability.
directors resulting in a strong mix of skills and experience, particularly in Europe and South Africa, countries in which Mondi primarily operates.
Dual listed company structure On appointment each non-executive director receives a letter of appointment setting out, among other things, their term of appointment, Mondi operates under a dual listed company DLC structure, which the expected time commitment for their duties to Mondi and details of requires compliance with the corporate and accounting regulations of any DLC committees of which they are a member.
Non-executive South Africa and the UK.
Mondi Limited and Mondi plc together the directors are initially appointed for a three-year term after which, whilst Mondi Group or Mondi have separate corporate identities and not automatic, their appointment may be extended for a second term separate stock exchange listings.
Mondi Limited has a primary listing on subject to mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
the JSE Limited JSE, while Mondi plc has a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and a secondary listing on the JSE.
Under the DLC The directors holding office during the year ended 31 December 2008 structure, any ordinary share held in either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc are listed below, together with their attendance at Board meetings held gives the holder an effective economic interest in the whole Mondi Group.
Those in office as at the date of this report, together with their biographical details, can be found on pages 30 to 32.
The relationship between Mondi Limited and Mondi plc is underpinned by the DLC structure principles, which provide that: Mondi Limited Mondi plc board board DLC board Mondi Limited and Mondi plc and their subsidiaries must operate as if Directors one meeting two meetings five meetings they are a single corporate group, with Mondi Limited and Mondi plc Sir John Parker 1 2 5 having boards of directors comprised of the same individuals: and Cyril Ramaphosa 1 2 5 the directors of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc will, in addition to their David Hathorn 1 2 5 duties to the company concerned, have regard to the interests of the Paul Hollingworth 1 2 4 Mondi Limited shareholders and the Mondi plc shareholders as if the Andrew King 1 two companies were a single unified economic enterprise and for that purpose the directors of each company will take into account, in the Colin Matthews 1 2 4 exercise of their powers, the interests of the shareholders of the other.
Imogen Mkhize 1 2 5 Peter Oswald 1 2 5 Compliance statement Anne Quinn 1 2 5 Mondi has complied throughout the year with the principles contained in David Williams 1 2 5 the South African King II Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct and Section 1 of the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued Paul Hollingworth resigned from the boards of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on 23 October 2008. by the Financial Reporting Council, save that Cyril Ramaphosa, the joint Andrew King was appointed a director of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on 23 October 2008. chairman, was not considered to be independent upon appointment, Colin Matthews was unable to attend the meetings held on 6 June 2008.
As the newly appointed as explained below.
chief executive officer of BAA Airports Limited in the UK, he had an initial clash of commitments.
His non-attendance on this occasion was considered reasonable in view of the circumstances.
He received the papers for consideration at these meetings and had the opportunity to provide input via the chairmen.
Peter Oswald was appointed a director of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on 1 January 2008.
34 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 18 Operator: SJL BO HB IM JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date: 13-03-09 Spellchecked: Y Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader: In line with the DLC structure, certain of the Board meetings are The principal responsibilities of the chief executive officer include to: combined DLC Mondi Limited and Mondi plc meetings.
Six such lead the business: meetings have been scheduled for 2009.
In addition, each company holds additional meetings to cover any specific local requirements.
chair the DLC executive committee and lead the management team: All Board meetings are convened by formal notice, incorporating a ensure that the Group has effective processes and controls: and detailed agenda.
ensure that the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear information The Boards have collective responsibility for providing entrepreneurial about the Groups performance.
leadership and for the development of a long-term strategy for the Group.
In addition, each of the Boards has a schedule of matters The joint chairmen and chief executive officer work together to ensure reserved to them which enables them to ensure that effective controls that there is effective co-ordination of their roles and responsibilities.
and risk management procedures are in place to protect the Groups In particular, they work closely together on matters such as the assets and to ensure that the Group operates within a framework of relationships with major shareholders, government, analysts, media and robust corporate governance and ethical behaviour.
The Boards also other external relationships at a senior level and on major acquisitions oversee major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, as well as and disposals.
monitoring financial reporting and controls, shareholder matters and the The joint chairmen maintain a regular dialogue with each other and implementation of Group policies including the code of business ethics manage the Boards through mutual agreement.
and the share dealing code.
A copy of the full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards is available on the Mondi Group web site at David Hathorn, chief executive officer, does not hold any directorships www.
The Boards have delegated certain specific external to Mondi.
The main positions held by Sir John Parker and Cyril duties to committees as detailed below.
Ramaphosa outside the Mondi Group are detailed in their biographies set out on page 30.
There have been no material changes to the Between Board meetings, to enable the directors to fulfil their duties, commitments of either joint chairman during the year and the Boards additional relevant information is provided to them in hard copy, by continue to consider that their external directorships do not interfere e-mail and telephone, as appropriate.
with the time they devote to Mondi.
One meeting per year is scheduled for the joint chairmen and nonWhilst Sir John Parker was independent upon appointment, Cyril executive directors to meet without executive management present.
Ramaphosa was not considered independent upon appointment in One further meeting each year is attended by the joint chairmen and view of his existing connection with Mondi as chairman of the Shanduka non-executive directors with the chief executive officer present.
Group, which has shareholdings in Mondi Shanduka Newsprint A policy is in place pursuant to which each director may obtain Proprietary Limited and Mondi Packaging South Africa Proprietary independent professional advice at Mondis expense in the furtherance Limited see page 118.
Notwithstanding this, Mondi benefits greatly of their duties as a director of either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc.
from his considerable knowledge and experience, particularly of the No requests were received during the year.
South African business environment, and the Boards firmly believe that this justifies his appointment.
In addition, Sir John Parker, together with Throughout the year to 31 December 2008, in line with market practice, the four independent non-executive directors, provides the required Mondi maintained directors and officers insurance.
Joint chairmen and chief executive officer Senior independent director Mondi has joint chairmen, Sir John Parker and Cyril Ramaphosa, with David Williams is the senior independent director.
His responsibilities the chief executive officer role held separately by David Hathorn.
The include chairing meetings of the non-executive directors at which the division of responsibilities between the joint chairmen and the chief performance of the joint chairmen is considered.
He is also available executive officer has been clearly defined and approved by the Boards.
to shareholders should they have any concerns that contact through The principal responsibilities of the joint chairmen include to: other channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact may be inappropriate.
During the year he met with certain major shareholders lead the Boards, ensuring their effectiveness and setting their agenda: to discuss Mondis corporate governance.
ensure high standards of corporate governance: Company secretaries ensure that the Boards set a clear and appropriate strategy for the Group: and Philip Laubscher is the company secretary of Mondi Limited and Carol Hunt the company secretary of Mondi plc.
The appointment ensure effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
and removal of the company secretaries is a matter for the Boards.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretaries.
The company secretaries are responsible for ensuring that the correct board procedures are followed and that the Boards are advised of all relevant corporate governance and regulatory matters, Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 35 Directors report Corporate governance report continued including the provision of advice on the performance of directors duties each member of the principal DLC committees relating to the activities and the continuing obligations of the stock exchanges on which Mondi of each committee.
The joint chairmen interviewed each director on a is listed.
one-to-one basis, Sir John Parker interviewing the non-South Africanbased directors and Cyril Ramaphosa interviewing those based in South Under the direction of the joint chairmen, the company secretaries Africa.
Further input for these interviews was obtained through the use manage the prompt provision of information and documentation, in of an additional questionnaire completed by each director providing particular meeting papers, to the Boards, allowing them sufficient time their views of their fellow directors in a number of areas such as to prepare fully for any Board or committee meetings.
preparedness for, and contribution at, meetings.
The results of the questionnaires and interviews remained positive.
The Induction and professional development Boards were considered to be operating well, with non-executive Board A formal induction programme is in place for Board appointments.
This members investing appropriate time to develop a good understanding of includes meetings with divisional business unit executives and other the Groups businesses and structure and the industry sector.
The main members of the DLC executive committee, site visits and meetings with areas highlighted in the recent review included: key advisers.
In addition, a briefing from one of the company secretaries succession planning for the non-executive directors as they had all will be provided on the DLC structure and its implications for the Boards, been appointed at the time of the demerger of Mondi from Anglo as well as the corporate governance issues in South Africa and the UK American plc: affecting the Group, directors duties and continuing obligations of the stock exchange listings.
All directors are provided with a handbook a request for the brokers to brief the Boards after presentation of the containing the committee remits and key Group policies together with half-yearly results: and other material to assist them in understanding and fulfilling their duties.
the desire to test the views of the senior management teams on the Site visits are arranged where the opportunity arises in conjunction with effectiveness of communication from the Boards.
Where possible, opportunities to introduce the Boards Other matters raised were more of a procedural nature.
Action plans to local management teams are taken, utilising site visits, meetings and to address the matters raised in the review have been formulated and board presentations.
Continuing professional development is provided to directors to meet The performance of the joint chairmen was reviewed at a meeting of their individual needs.
This may be at their request or as a result of the the non-executive directors.
It was concluded that the leadership and evaluation process for the Boards.
As required, updates are provided on combined business knowledge of the joint chairmen was invaluable relevant topics including corporate governance, legislative and financial to Mondi.
Directors are also made aware of relevant external training courses and workshops which may support their position on the Boards or on a committee.
The directors are briefed on changes in regulation Procedure for conflicts of interest and governance with particular emphasis on matters relating to their roles The new company law regime introduced on 1 October 2008 by and responsibilities.
During the year certain non-executive directors the UK Companies Act 2006 on directors conflicts of interest and have taken up the opportunity to attend external training courses.
the shareholder approval of the related amendments to the articles It is recognised that executive directors can gain valuable experience of association of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc at the last annual through serving as non-executive directors on the boards of other general meetings allows directors to authorise potential conflicts: new companies.
A policy is in place requiring the executive directors to seek procedures have therefore been put in place to manage such situations.
the approval of the Boards on the appropriateness of any proposed The new procedures include the following: appointment and also to ensure that the number of any such commitments is contained, so that an appropriate balance is an initial review by the company secretaries of the details of any maintained.
A director will retain any fee paid to them in respect of potential conflicts of interest, or changes to previously authorised directorships held that are external to Mondi.
conflicts, notified by a director and presentation of the facts to the Boards for consideration: Performance evaluation an unconflicted quorum of the Boards consider, in accordance with the articles of association and their other statutory duties, the details Following a review, it was agreed that an internally facilitated and, where considered appropriate, authorise the potential conflict.
performance evaluation of the Boards, principal committees and The director is advised of the outcome and the scope and limitations individual directors remained appropriate for 2008.
The evaluations were of the authorisation, where applicable: led by the joint chairmen and supported by the company secretaries and comprised a questionnaire completed by each director regarding a record is maintained of all authorisations given, including the scope various aspects of the performance of the Boards.
The questionnaire and any limitations of such authorisations: and was expanded over that used in 2007 to test more effectively the all authorisations are reviewed on an annual basis by the Boards to operation of the Boards and to pick up on the actions that arose from ensure that it is appropriate for the relevant matter to remain authorised.
In addition, questionnaires were completed by 36 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 18 Operator: SJL BO HB IM JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date: 13-03-09 Spellchecked: Y Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader: a review by the committee of the effectiveness of the external auditors, Board committees a recommendation was made to, and accepted by, the Boards that The DLC committees, to which the Boards delegate specific areas of resolutions to reappoint Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte LLP be proposed responsibility as described below, have authority to make decisions at the annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc in according to their terms of reference.
Each committee reviews its May 2009. terms of reference on an annual basis and these are available on the A policy on the provision of non-audit services provided by the auditors Mondi Group web site at www.
The committees are of Mondi Limited and of Mondi plc to the Group sets out the procedures empowered, through their terms of reference, to seek independent for the pre-approval of such services.
The policy also details those professional advice at Mondis expense in the furtherance of their duties.
non-audit services, including financial information systems design, Whilst only committee members are entitled to attend committee internal audit outsourcing and actuarial valuation services, that are meetings, the chairmen of each committee can invite, as they consider prohibited.
Reports are presented to the committee at each meeting appropriate, management and advisers to meetings to assist the detailing any non-audit services approved since the previous meeting, committees in carrying out their duties.
To ensure that the Boards as a to enable the committee to keep under review the provision of these whole have an understanding of any key issues under consideration by services to ensure that they do not impair the external auditors a committee, each committee chairman provides a report to the Boards independence and objectivity.
The DLC audit committee has reviewed the expertise and experience The company secretaries of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc each act as of Andrew King, Mondis chief financial officer, and is satisfied that this secretary to each of the DLC committees.
Andrew is a chartered accountant and throughout his career has held various finance and business development roles.
The membership of each of the DLC committees, together with the attendance at committee meetings held during the year, are The Boards consider that David Williams, who is a chartered accountant detailed below.
and was finance director of Bunzl plc until his retirement, has recent and relevant financial experience.
In addition, each of the members of the Membership of each committee is kept under review and, in particular, will DLC audit committee has appropriate knowledge and understanding be considered when each committee undertakes its annual evaluation.
DLC audit committee The committee has discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms DLC audit of reference to the extent appropriate during the year and specific committee Members four meetings matters reviewed by the committee included: Colin Matthews 4 a review of the Mondi Group half-yearly results, full-year results and Anne Quinn 4 interim management statements and annual report, including reports David Williams chairman 4 from the Group controller and the external auditors on the results: the review and approval of the external audit plan and proposed fees The DLC audit committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
The for the 2008 year-end: committee met four times during the year and has four meetings scheduled for 2009.
The Group heads of internal audit and monitoring the effectiveness of the risk management process: representatives from the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls: Deloitte LLP, are regularly in attendance at meetings.
The committee has responsibility, among other things, for monitoring the integrity of the a review of non-audit services approved: Groups financial statements and reviewing the results announcements.
status reports from the Group heads of internal audit, which included: It also has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups a review of the internal audit charter: audits carried out and the results system of internal controls and risk management systems.
Time has thereof: the programme for 2009: reports received via Speakout the been scheduled at one meeting each year for the committee to meet Groups whistleblowing facility : and on fraud: separately with the internal and external auditors without executive management present.
a review of new regulations introduced in South Africa regarding the responsibilities of audit committees: and The DLC audit committee oversees the relationship with the external auditors: is responsible for their appointment, reappointment and a review of the terms of reference of the committee and its performance against those terms.
remuneration: reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process: and ensures that the objectivity and independence of the auditors The DLC audit committee has concluded that, based on the foregoing, it is maintained.
Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte LLP were appointed as is satisfied that auditor independence and objectivity have been maintained.
Mondis external auditors at the time of the demerger of Mondi from Anglo American plc in July 2007.
As such, the DLC audit committee does not consider that it would be appropriate at this time to put the audit out to tender, but will continue to keep this under review.
Following Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 37 Directors report Corporate governance report continued DLC nominations committee DLC remuneration committee DLC nominations DLC remuneration committee committee Members six meetings Members five meetings Colin Matthews 5 Colin Matthews 4 Imogen Mkhize 5 Imogen Mkhize 5 Sir John Parker chairman 6 Anne Quinn chairman 5 Anne Quinn 6 David Williams 5 Cyril Ramaphosa 6 The DLC remuneration committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
David Williams 6 The committee met five times during the year and plans to meet four times in 2009 with additional meetings convened as required.
Colin Matthews and Imogen Mkhize were appointed as committee members on 17 January 2008.
The committee has responsibility for making recommendations to each The DLC nominations committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
The board on the Groups policy on remuneration of senior management, for committee meets periodically as required but at least annually and met the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of the remuneration six times during the year.
The chief executive officer is usually invited to of the joint chairmen and of specific remuneration packages for each of attend meetings of the committee and provides information to support the executive directors and members of senior management, including the work of the committee.
pension rights and any compensation payments.
In addition, the committee is responsible for the implementation of employee share plans.
The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Boards on the composition of each board and committee and on The committees full report on directors remuneration is set out on retirements and appointments of additional and replacement directors pages 40 to 47. in accordance with the policy on the selection and appointment of DLC sustainable development committee directors.
Whilst one of the joint chairmen chairs this committee, he is not permitted to chair meetings during discussions regarding his DLC sustainable development performance or when the appointment of a successor is being discussed.
committee Members five meetings During the year the committee considered, in particular, changes to the David Hathorn 5 DLC executive committee and executive representation on the Boards.
This resulted in the recommendation to, and acceptance by, the Boards Colin Matthews chairman 5 of the appointment of Ron Traill to the DLC executive committee in June Sir John Parker 5 2008 and the appointment of Andrew King as an executive director on the Boards in October 2008, replacing Paul Hollingworth as chief The DLC sustainable development committee operates on a Groupfinancial officer.
There were no proposed appointments of additional wide basis.
The committee met five times during the year and plans to non-executive directors during the period.
A formal process for the meet six times in 2009.
The committee has responsibility for overseeing consideration of new directors has been agreed by the committee.
the Groups policy, targets and performance on safety, health, the The process includes, where appropriate, the involvement of external environment, social responsibility, other sustainable development search agencies.
In addition, the committee considered and recommended to the Boards The committee reviewed the Groups key sustainable development an internal evaluation process, the results of which were presented to, policies, received detailed reports of major incidents within the Group and discussed by, the committee, following which recommendations and monitored the senior managements response to such incidents.
were made to, and accepted by, the Boards.
A summary report from the directors on the Groups sustainability The committee also reviewed succession plans for the senior executive practices is set out on pages 25 to 29 and further details, including a roles, which followed a detailed talent review by the Group.
The full review of our sustainability activities and progress in 2008, can be committee also considered the re-election of directors at the annual found on the Mondi Group web site at: www.
general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
One-third of directors DLC executive committee are required to stand for re-election each year based on those who have The DLC executive committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
The been the longest serving since their election or last re-election.
Following members of the executive committee are detailed on page 33.
The the demerger of Mondi from Anglo American plc in July 2007, all directors committee is chaired by David Hathorn and met nine times during stood for election at the annual general meetings in 2008.
The proposal the year, with nine meetings scheduled for 2009. for those to stand for re-election in 2009 was, therefore, by mutual agreement of the directors.
The committee agreed, and recommended to the Boards, the re-election of Imogen Mkhize, Peter Oswald and Sir John Parker, in addition to Andrew King who was appointed during the year.
The recommendation was agreed by the Boards.
38 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 18 Operator: SJL BO HB IM JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date: 13-03-09 Spellchecked: Y Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader: The DLC executive committee is responsible for the day-to-day All dealings by directors and persons discharging managerial management of the Group and its business operations within the limits responsibilities and their connected persons are announced to the set by the Boards, together with policy implementation in line with the JSE Limited and the London Stock Exchange when they occur.
The Groups strategy agreed by the Boards.
remuneration report on pages 40 to 47 contains details of the directors interests in the shares of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
Communication with shareholders Business ethics The Boards consider communication with shareholders, whether institutional, private or employee, to be extremely important.
A variety of The Boards have adopted a Code of Business Ethics, which applies communication mechanisms are used, with the Mondi Group web site, throughout the Group and sets clear principles for the conduct of the www.
com, providing a range of financial and business Groups business activities.
The code has five key elements, three of information about the Group, including an archive of past announcements which are monitored and reviewed by the DLC sustainable development and share price information, as well as the Groups sustainable committee and the other two by the DLC audit committee.
believe that the Group has robust compliance systems and procedures in place in relation to the code.
The directors are not aware of any The DLC structure requires Mondi to comply with the disclosure material non-compliance of the code.
The code is available on the obligations forming part of the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited Mondi Group web site at: www.
and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Boards ensure that procedures are in place to Annual general meetings ensure compliance and have agreed to apply on each issue whichever is the higher standard of governance and regulation between South Africa The annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc will be and the UK.
held on 7 May 2009 in Johannesburg and London respectively and will provide an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions of the directors The chief executive officer and chief financial officer have a programme and chairmen of each Board committee about Mondis activities and of regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, analysts and fund prospects.
All directors and, in particular, the chairmen of the principal managers.
During the year this included site visits to help increase the Board committees are expected to be present.
knowledge and understanding of the Group.
Summaries of the feedback from these discussions and meetings were presented to the Boards, Separate resolutions will be proposed for each substantially separate which help them to gain an understanding of the views and opinions of item of business for consideration at the annual general meetings.
All those interested in the Group.
In addition, the Boards are supported by resolutions at the meetings will be voted on by taking polls, with the the Group head of communications.
All contact with investors and other verified results announced as soon as practicable following the close of interested parties is strictly controlled through the application of Group the meeting.
The proxy voting results will also be available on the Mondi guidelines to ensure that no price sensitive information is made available Group web site at: www.
on a selective basis and that all shareholders are treated equally.
The notices of the annual general meetings, which include explanations Throughout the year responses are given to letters and e-mails received of all resolutions, are contained in separate circulars which are being from shareholders and other interested parties on a variety of subjects.
sent to all shareholders in advance of the meetings, in accordance with For those shareholders wishing to receive communications from the the corporate governance codes of South Africa and the UK.
Group via electronic means, facilities are available for this, including for the submission of proxy votes for general meetings.
The annual general meetings provide opportunities for shareholders to question the directors directly regarding the Groups activities and prospects.
Dealing in securities The Boards have adopted a share dealing code for dealing in securities of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc which is based on regulatory and governance best practice.
The code sets out the restrictions placed on directors, senior management and other key employees with regard to their share dealing to ensure that they do not abuse their access to information about the Group pending its public release and availability to shareholders and other interested parties.
The code is reviewed and updated regularly to ensure continued compliance with regulation and best practice.
Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 39 Directors report
