Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee presents a separate report in relation the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Human Resources Director may attend meetings of the Nomination to the financial year ended 31 December 2008.
Composition of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the three Non-Executive The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are published on the Groups website at www.
com and are Directors, Gerald Corbett Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Michael Wemms and Rob Rowley.
Rob Rowley and Michael available in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
Wemms are considered by the Board to be independent.
Gerald Corbett was considered by the Board to be independent Each of the Non-Executive Directors has written letters of appointment.
Their respective letters of appointment set out their on appointment.
Biographies of the members of the Nomination Committee are set out on pages 34 and 35. expected time commitment to the Company.
Each of the NonExecutive Directors has undertaken that they have sufficient time to Operation of the Nomination Committee meet what is expected of them.
The Nomination Committee met on two occasions during the financial year ended 31 December 2008.
Details of the attendance In order that the Board is kept fully informed of the Nomination Committees work, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee at Nomination Committee meetings are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 44. reports on the Nomination Committees work at the next Board meeting.
The Board also receives a copy of the minutes of each The Nomination Committee meets as necessary and is responsible meeting of the Nomination Committee.
for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, considering the size, structure and composition of the This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Board and, where necessary, considering and recommending to the Board persons who are appropriate for appointment as Directors.
Gerald Corbett The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee 24 February 2009 process involves the Nomination Committee interviewing suitable candidates who are proposed by either existing Board members or by an external search company.
Careful consideration is given to ensure appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will chair the Nomination Committee instead of the Chairman.
When the Nomination Committee has identified a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee will make a recommendation to the Board with the Board making the final decision.
During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board together with the size, structure and composition of the Board, and considered the appointment of additional Executive Directors of the Company including the appointment of a Chief Executive Officer to succeed Simon Nixon.
After meeting with Nomination Committee members, Peter Plumb was appointed an Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2009 and each of Graham Donoghue and David Osborne were appointed Executive Directors with effect from 23 February 2009.
The Nomination Committee has commenced the process, with the assistance of an external search company, to appoint additional Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination Committee.
The members of the Nomination Committee can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, 47 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008
