Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee presents a separate report in relation to the wrongdoing by the Group or any of its employees without fear of financial year ended 31 December 2008. reprisal.
This includes arrangements to investigate such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Composition of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the three Non-Executive Directors, Internal control and risk management Rob Rowley Chairman of the Audit Committee, Gerald Corbett The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal and Michael Wemms.
Rob Rowley and Michael Wemms are control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
considered by the Board to be independent.
Gerald Corbett The Audit Committee monitors and undertakes an annual review was considered by the Board to be independent on appointment.
of the effectiveness of, and the framework for, the Groups system Biographies of the members of the Audit Committee are set out on of internal control and risk management.
This includes annual pages 34 and 35.
Rob Rowley is a qualified accountant and was consideration as to whether there is a need to establish an internal formerly finance director of Reuters plc and chairman of the audit audit function.
He is currently chairman of the audit committee at Liberty International plc.
The Board is satisfied that The Audit Committee undertook a review of the effectiveness of, Rob Rowley has recent and relevant financial experience.
and the framework for, the Groups system of internal control and risk management, including financial, operational and compliance Operation of the Audit Committee controls during the year.
The external auditors were engaged to The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the financial review and test the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal year ended 31 December 2008.
Details of the attendance at Audit control and to assist the Audit Committee in its review of the Committee meetings are set out in the Corporate Governance effectiveness of that system.
The Audit Committee received Report on page 44. comprehensive reports from the external auditors at each Audit Committee meeting on the results and progress of this review and The Chief Financial Officer, together with the external auditors, the tests undertaken by the external auditors.
will normally attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
At each Audit Committee meeting, the During the financial year ended 31 December 2008, the Audit external auditors are invited by the Audit Committee to advise them Committee considered the need to establish an internal audit of any matters which they consider should be brought to the Audit function and concluded that the control systems are sufficient for Committees attention without the Executive Directors present.
the size and complexity of the Group such that an internal audit function is not required at this time.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
The members of the Audit Committee can, where they judge it Review of the work of the external auditors necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent Subject to the annual appointment of the external auditors professional advice at the Companys expense.
The external by shareholders, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the auditors may also request a meeting with the Audit Committee if relationship between the Group and the external auditors.
This review includes an assessment of their performance, cost-effectiveness, objectivity and independence.
The Audit Committees duties include: The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that an Reviewing the Groups Financial Statements and the material appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group and financial reporting judgements contained in them.
The Group has implemented a policy of Reviewing the Groups internal control and risk controlling the provision of non-audit services by the external management systems.
auditors in order to maintain their independence and ensure that Advising the Board on the appointment and removal of the their objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
This control is external auditors and the remuneration and terms of exercised by ensuring that all non-audit services are subject to the engagement of the external auditors.
prior approval of the Audit Committee.
During the year, the Audit Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the Committee approved the appointment of other accountancy firms external auditors to supply non-audit services.
to provide non-audit services to the Group and anticipates that this Considering the requirement for an internal audit function.
Reviewing the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are published on the performance during their period in office, recommends their Groups website at www.
com and are available re-appointment.
A full breakdown of the audit and non-audit related in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
fees is set out in note 5 to the Group Financial Statements on page 64.
The Audit Committee discussed the level of fees and The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in line with an annual considered them appropriate given the current size of the Group.
The Audit Committee agrees the scope of the audit The Audit Committee is satisfied that the level and scope of work and discusses the results of the full year audit and half year non-audit services undertaken by the external auditors does not review each year.
impair their independence and objectivity.
In order that the Board is kept fully informed of the Audit This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Committees work, the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports on the Audit Committees work at the next Board meeting.
The Board also receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting of the Audit Committee.
Rob Rowley During the year, the Audit Committee approved a new formal Chairman of the Audit Committee whistleblowing procedure whereby employees may, in confidence, 24 February 2009 disclose issues or concerns about possible malpractice or 46 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008
