Corporate Governance structure and asset base of the Group, the Board Introduction believes that full adherence to the Combined Code Antofagasta plc Antofagasta has an uncommon is not practicable.
Nevertheless, the Board considers ownership structure for a company listed on the that its structure and balance as set out in more London Stock Exchange.
The E. Abaroa Foundation, detail below under the heading Directors provide an entity in which members of the Luksic family are an appropriate basis for ensuring its effectiveness and interested, controls 60.65% of the ordinary share the protection of the interests of all shareholders in capital and 94.12% of the preference share capital the Company.
of the Company through two investment vehicles, Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg The Board describes below how it applied the Establishment.
Aureberg Establishment, which is corporate governance principles contained in the controlled by Antofagastas Chairman, Mr. J-P Luksic, Combined Code during 2008.
Two areas where the holds 4.26% of the ordinary share capital of the Company did not comply with the detailed Combined Company.
Although incorporated in the United Kingdom Code provisions are set out at the end of this report and listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Groups under the heading Statement of Compliance with businesses, which comprise mining, transport and the Detailed Provisions of the Combined Code.
water distribution, are principally located in Chile, the largest copper-producing country in the world.
Directors The Board Antofagastas Board is committed to managing the The Directors collectively have responsibility for the operations of the Group with a view to maximising conduct of the Groups business.
The Board, which value for all shareholders.
The Board currently has nine met eight times during 2008, comprises an Executive members, comprising an Executive Chairman and eight Chairman and eight Non-Executive Directors, six of Non-Executive Directors.
Two of the nine Directors whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
including the Chairman are members of the Luksic There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved family.
Seven of the Directors, including the Chairman, for the Board.
The Board is responsible for: are based in Chile, where the Groups operations are principally located: one Director is based in the providing leadership: United Kingdom, where the Company is incorporated setting the Groups strategic objectives and key and listed on the London Stock Exchange: and one policies: Director is based in the United States.
ensuring that appropriate resources are in place The day-to-day operations of the Group are carried to enable the Group to meet its objectives: on through the boards of each division of the Group, reviewing the Groups performance: and Antofagasta Minerals S. A. mining, Antofagasta Railway Company plc FCAB railway and other overseeing the Groups internal control systems.
transport services and Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A.
The Chairman will always attempt to persuade the water distribution.
Each division is headed by a Board to act as a single team by obtaining consensus chief executive officer who reports to his divisional at Board meetings but, in exceptional circumstances, board and the Chairman of the Group.
The Antofagasta decisions will be taken by majority.
The agenda for Board oversees these divisional boards and provides Board meetings are set by the Chairman in consultation strategic direction.
In its consideration of Corporate Governance matters, Responsibility for developing and implementing the the Board is mindful of the principles set out in the Groups strategic and financial objectives is delegated Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by to the senior management of the Group.
Accordingly, the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the the boards of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. mining, the Combined Code.
However, given the ownership Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Antofagasta Railway Company plc railway and other Committees designed to devolve away from the transport services and Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A.
Chairman responsibility and control of certain key water distribution meet monthly to consider strategic, areas of Board responsibility, and the delegation of operational and risk management issues in more detail.
management responsibility to the chief executive There is substantial overlap between membership of officer of each division.
the Board of Antofagasta plc and these three divisional Board balance and independence boards.
The chief executive officer of each division The Board considers six of its eight Non-Executive reports to his divisional board and to the Chairman of Directors to be independent Mr. C H Bailey, the Group: the Board oversees these divisional boards Mr. GSMenndez, Mr. D E Yarur, Mr. J W Ambrus, and provides strategic direction.
The Board is also Mr. J G Claro and Mr. W M Hayes.
The Board is responsible for reviewing the performance of satisfied that this balance limits the scope for an management.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise individual or small group of individuals to dominate the the performance of management in meeting goals Boards decision-making.
The Directors Report sets and objectives and also monitor the reporting of out biographical details of each Director and identifies performance, through the activities of the those Directors standing for re-election on page 53.
Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
Mr. Yarur, Mr. Claro, Mr. Ambrus and Mr. Hayes meet Directors who served during 2008 are set out on the independence criteria set out in Combined Code page 149.
There were no changes to the membership provision A.
3.1 and the Board is satisfied as to of the Board during 2008. their independence.
The recognised senior independent Non-Executive The Board is satisfied that Mr. Bailey remains Director is Mr. C H Bailey, who is also Chairman of the independent in character and judgement, Audit Committee.
Mr. G S Menndez is Chairman of notwithstanding that he has served on the Board the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The for more than nine years, since he does not receive Board does not have a Director formally designated any remuneration from the Company other than as Chief Executive.
Non-Executive Directors fees, nor does he have any The role of the Chairman other relationships with the Company or its majority Mr. J-P Luksic is Chairman of the Board.
The Board is also satisfied that that of a full-time Executive Chairman, and he has no Mr. Menndez remains independent in character other significant commitments that prevent him from and judgement, notwithstanding that he has also devoting sufficient time to this role.
As explained above, served on the Board for more than nine years and the Group does not have a Board member who is notwithstanding that he is a non-executive director designated as Chief Executive.
Mr. Marcelo Awad is of Quienco S. A. a Chilean-listed company also chief executive officer of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. : controlled by the Luksic family and some of its Mr. Miguel Seplveda is chief executive officer of the subsidiaries, including Banco fide Chile and Telefnica Antofagasta Railway Company plc: and Mr. Marco del Sur S. A.
This is because he does not receive Ktulas is the chief executive officer of Aguas fide any remuneration from the Group other than in a Antofagasta S. A. non-executive capacity.
His position in the Quienco group is also solely as a non-executive director.
The The Board believes that the Company is not at risk Board considers that Mr. Baileys and Mr. Menndezs from a concentration of power by Mr. J-P Luksic having length of service is of considerable benefit to the executive responsibilities as Chairman.
In reaching this Board given their wealth of knowledge and experience conclusion, it has taken into consideration the strong of the Group and of Latin America and of the mining presence of Non-Executive Directors on the Board, the industry, and therefore proposes both for re-election.
structure of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 59 Corporate Governance continued Mr. Ambrus was appointed a Non-Executive Director and the committee met three times during the year.
of Antofagasta plc in 2005, and consequently has Antofagasta was advised in this transaction by served as a Director of the Company for three Rothschild and Clifford Chance LLP.
He was appointed a non-executive director of Appointments to the Board Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a subsidiary of Antofagasta The Nomination Committee currently comprises plc, in 1997, and has consequently served as a director Mr. G S Menndez Chairman, Mr. C H Bailey and of that company for eleven years.
While this is not a Mr. R F Jara.
circumstance listed in Combined Code provision A.
3.1 As explained above, Mr. C H Bailey and as relevant to determining a directors independence Mr. G S Menndez are considered by the unlike the length of service as a Director of the listed Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Company, the Board has nevertheless considered this factor and remains satisfied that Mr. Ambrus remains The Nomination Committee periodically reviews independent in character and judgement as he does the composition of the Board including the balance not receive any remuneration from the Company other between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and than in a non-executive capacity and does not have considers succession planning for both Executive any material business relationship with the company.
and Non-Executive Directors and the Groups senior Details of fees paid by the Group to Ingeniera y Servicios management.
It is also responsible for the process for Computacionales Geovectra S. A. a company controlled new Board appointments and makes recommendations by Mr. Ambrus, are disclosed in Note 38 to the financial to the Board on the appointment of new Directors and statements.
The Board has also considered these is responsible for ensuring that appointments are made amounts and does not consider them material either on merit and against objective criteria.
In fulfilling these to Mr. Ambrus or the Group.
responsibilities, the Nomination Committee consults the Chairman, Mr. J-P Luksic.
The Nomination Committee The Board does not consider Mr. R F Jara or meets as necessary and, in any case, at least once Mr. G A Luksic to be independent.
Its terms of reference are available from the provides advisory services to the Group, as Companys registered office and may be viewed on explained in the Remuneration Report on page 66. the Companys website www.
Mr. G A Luksic is the brother of Mr. J-P Luksic, the Chairman of Antofagasta plc.
Mr. G A Luksic In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination is chairman of Quienco S. A. and Madeco S. A.
Committee considers the skills, experience and and a director of Quiencos other listed subsidiaries.
knowledge of the existing Directors and assesses Mr. J-P Luksic and Mr. G S Menndez are also which of the potential candidates would most benefit Non-Executive Directors of Quienco and some the Board.
It considers the potential candidates of its listed subsidiaries.
Like Antofagasta, Quienco knowledge and experience of Chile, the mining is also controlled by the Luksic family.
industry in Latin America, capital markets and the regulatory environment, and that they have sufficient A committee of Independent Directors was formed time to devote to the role.
The Chairman ensures that during the year, in order to review and approve the any new Directors are provided with a full induction transaction whereby the Group acquired a 100% on joining the Board.
interest in certain mining properties previously owned 51% by the Group and 49% by Mineralinvest All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment Establishment, an entity ultimately controlled by the with the Company, for an initial period of three years Luksic family.
Further information relating to this from the date of their appointment, subject to transaction is given in Notes 32 and 38 to the financial reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
The members of this committee were These letters require the Non-Executive Directors Mr. C H Bailey, Mr. J W Ambrus and Mr. W M Hayes, Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE to undertake that they will have sufficient time based outside Chile visit the country regularly and at to discharge their responsibilities.
The letters of least once a year, and the Directors based outside the appointment are available for inspection at the Companys United Kingdom also regularly visit this country, again registered office during normal business hours and at normally at least once a year.
the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to Group management in the United Kingdom and Chile and during the meeting.
is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and Information and professional development applicable rules and regulations are complied with and The Directors receive information for review ahead of for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all each Board or Committee Meeting.
In addition, they governance matters.
Company secretarial advice is receive regular reports and forecasts for the Group and provided by Petershill Secretaries Limited.
each significant operation to ensure that they remain Performance evaluation properly briefed about the performance and financial The Board periodically considers its performance position of the Group throughout the year.
A performance evaluation of the have access to management and to such further Board, its committees and its individual members was information as is needed to carry out their duties and conducted during 2008 by Mr. G S Menndez, with responsibilities fully and effectively.
Furthermore, all the assistance of senior management.
Mr. C H Bailey, Directors are entitled to seek independent professional as the senior independent Non-Executive Director advice concerning the affairs of the Group at the was responsible for the evaluation of the Chairman.
The results were discussed with the Chairman and The Company also provides Directors with the necessary considered by the Board and were taken into account resources to develop and update their knowledge and in the decision to recommend re-election of the retiring capabilities.
In particular, the Directors are regularly Directors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting updated on the Groups business, the competitive and during 2009.
The Board is satisfied that each Director regulatory environment in which it operates and other continues to contribute effectively and to demonstrate changes affecting the Group as a whole.
The Directors commitment to his role.
Directors attendance at meetings in 2008 The number of Board and Committee meetings held during 2008, together with details of each Directors attendance, is set out below: Audit Nomination Remuneration Independent Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible J-P Luksic 7 8 C H Bailey 7833112233 G S Menndez 88331122 R F Jara 7 8 1 1 D E Yarur 4813 12 G A Luksic 4 8 J W Ambrus 8 8 3 3 J G Claro 6 8 W M Hayes 8 8 3 3 1 All Directors in office at the time of the Annual General Meeting in June 2008 attended that meeting with the exception of Mr. D E Yarur, who was unable to attend due to flight disruptions.
Each Director withdrew from any meeting when his own position was being considered.
The Independent Committee is described above on page 60.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 61 Corporate Governance continued In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Re-election Code, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness Each Director is elected by shareholders at the Annual of the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards General Meeting following his first appointment.
The monitoring covers all controls, including financial, Companys Articles of Association provide that not less operational and compliance controls and risk than one-third of the Directors must retire by rotation management.
It is based principally on reviewing each year and that each Director is re-elected at least reports from management to consider whether once every three years.
Non-Executive Directors who significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed have served for more than nine years are subject to and controlled and whether any significant annual re-election in accordance with provision A.
7.2 weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a of the Combined Code.
need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has The Directors retiring and standing for re-election at also performed a specific assessment for the purpose this years Annual General Meeting are Mr. C H Bailey, of this Annual Report.
This assessment considers all Mr. R F Jara and Mr G S Menndez.
Biographical significant aspects of internal control arising during details of these Directors are set out in the Directors the period covered by the report including the work Report on page 53. of internal audit.
The Audit Committee assists the The Chairman confirms that the Board is satisfied that Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
each of the Directors proposed for re-election continues During the course of its review of the system of to be effective and continues to demonstrate internal control, the Board has not identified nor been commitment to his role.
advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation Remuneration in respect of necessary actions is not required.
The membership of the Remuneration Committee, a statement of the Companys policy on remuneration, Further information relating to the Groups risk and and the remuneration details and shareholding interests management systems is given in the Corporate of each Director are contained in the Remuneration Sustainability report on pages 44 to 51.
Going concern The Boards statement on going concern is included Accountability and Audit in the Financial Review on page 43.
Internal control Corporate sustainability The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the Combined The Board takes into account the community, social, Code by establishing a continuous process for environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and identifying, evaluating and managing the significant is responsible for the relevant policies of the Group.
The Board regularly reviews A Corporate Sustainability committee was formed the process, which has been in place from the start during 2008, comprising Mr. J-P Luksic, Mr. G S of the 2008 financial year to the date of approval of Menndez and Mr. R F Jara.
It is intended that the this report and which is in accordance with revised committee will start to meet during 2009.
The guidance on internal control published in October 2005 committees purpose is to assist the Board in the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board is responsible its responsibilities with respect to the Groups social for the Groups system of internal control and for responsibility.
Key issues of social responsibility are reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed identified and assessed through the Groups risk to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to management processes described under Internal achieve business objectives, and can only provide Control above.
During 2008 the Group also published reasonable and not absolute assurance against material a separate Sustainability Report in respect of 2007 misstatement or loss.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE to provide further information on its social and monitors the integrity of the financial statements and environmental performance.
More information Directors statements on internal controls and reviews on corporate sustainability is given on pages 44 to 51. the going concern basis prior to its endorsement by the Board.
The Committee also reviews the Whistleblowing procedures preliminary announcement, the interim report and any The Audit Committee, whose other functions are other public reports relating to the Groups financial described below, is responsible for reviewing performance.
The terms of reference of the Audit arrangements by which employees of the Group Committee are available from the Companys may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible registered office and may be viewed on the improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other Companys website www.
An Ethics Code is in place across the Group, which includes a procedure to enable employees The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to to raise concerns, anonymously if necessary.
An investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
Ethics Committee, comprising members of senior It is authorised to seek any information it requires management, is responsible for implementing, from any employees and all employees are directed developing and updating the Ethics Code and to co-operate with any request made by the investigating any allegations of impropriety.
Committee reports directly to the Chief Executive of The Companys external auditors, Deloitte LLP, Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
The Audit Committee have provided non-audit services to the Company, considers the results of this work and the operation which amounted to US$225,000.
This comprised the of the Ethics Code as part of its annual review of the provision of services relating to the preparation for the effectiveness of internal control.
adoption of IFRS by the Groups Chilean subsidiaries, Audit Committee and Auditors tax compliance and other consultancy services.
The Audit Committee currently comprises Mr. C H Bailey The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of these Chairman, Mr. G S Menndez and Mr. D E Yarur, services in the course of the year and is confident all of whom are considered by the Board to be that the objectivity and independence of the auditors independent Non-Executive Directors.
All three are not impaired by reason of such non-audit work.
members are considered to have recent and relevant The Audit Committee has also considered the financial experience.
effectiveness of the external audit function through The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year the year through meetings with Deloitte LLP, a review with the external auditors in attendance.
The Audit of their audit plan and a consideration of the results Committees purpose is to assist the Board in meeting of work performed by the external auditors prior to its responsibilities relating to financial reporting and release of the interim and full year results.
In particular, it reviews the scope and Relations with Shareholders nature of the audit and issues arising from it and is Directors and senior management regularly meet responsible for ensuring the independence of the with institutional shareholders and analysts in the external auditors including their objectivity and United Kingdom, Europe, Chile and the United States.
effectiveness, monitoring the provision of any non-audit The senior independent Non-Executive Director, services and for making recommendations to the Mr. C H Bailey, also attends meetings with major Board for the appointment, reappointment or removal shareholders when required.
Other Non-Executive of the external auditors.
It reviews the internal control Directors are given the opportunity to meet with major and risk assessment procedures adopted by the shareholders and attend meetings if requested to do Group described in the section under the heading so by shareholders.
These meetings ensure that Internal Controls above, including a review of the the Board is able to develop and maintain an effectiveness of the internal audit function.
It also Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 63 Corporate Governance continued understanding of the views of several of the responsibility to the chief executive officer of each Companys major investors.
division achieves an appropriate balance and prevents a concentration of power in its Executive The Company carries out a formal programme of Chairman: and presentations to update institutional shareholders and analysts on developments in the Group after the performance related pay measures did not apply announcement of the half year and full year results.
The Board In addition, quarterly production figures and financial considers this appropriate given its predominantly results are published for the mining, transport and Non-Executive composition and the role of the water divisions.
Copies of these results and production only Executive Director, who is a member of the announcements, presentations and other press controlling family, as Chairman of the Board.
releases issued by the Company are available on its Performance related bonuses are paid to senior website.
As noted above, during the year the Group management in the Group based on a combination also published a separate Sustainability Report in of personal, divisional and Group performance respect of 2007 to provide further information on its assessed against targets set at the start of social and environmental performance.
The Companys Annual General Meeting AGM is also used as an opportunity to communicate with both institutional and private shareholders: the Board of Directors encourages all shareholders to attend.
The notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the Combined Code as it relates to voting, including votes withheld, the separation of the resolutions and the attendance of committee chairmen.
Statement of Compliance with the Detailed Provisions of the Combined Code As explained above, the Company complied with the detailed code provisions contained in the Combined Code throughout 2008 and to the date of this report except as follows: the Board does not have a separately identified Chief Executive and hence at Board level there is no formal separation of the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive provision A.
As explained above, the Group has separate chief executives for its mining, transport and water distribution divisions who report to their respective divisional boards and to the Chairman of the Group.
The Board considers that its predominantly non-executive composition combined with the delegation of management Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
