The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 52 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance Statement of compliance with the Combined Code Throughout the year ended 4 January 2009 the Company has been in compliance with Section 1 of the June 2006 edition of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
This statement describes how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles of the Code.
It should be read in conjunction with the Business review and Remuneration report on pages 16 to 45 and pages 59 to 67 respectively.
Directors The Board The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for the success of the Company.
The Board is satisfied it has met the Codes requirements for its effective operation.
It has set the Companys strategic aims, which were reviewed during the year, and has ensured that there is a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys values and standards which are contained in the Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy, both of which are referred to on page 32 in the Business review.
The Board met formally eight times during the year to review current performance against agreed objectives and to make and review major business decisions.
There is a schedule of matters specically reserved for the Board including significant contractual commitments including the acquisition or disposal of companies businesses, treasury and intellectual property transactions, the review of the effectiveness of risk management processes, major capital expenditure and corporate responsibility.
Various matters are delegated to duly authorised sub-committees of the Board.
During the year a number of Board changes were made.
Joe MacHale retired following the Annual General Meeting held on 18 April 2008 and effective on the same date, Andrew Given was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Martin Flower was appointed as Senior Independent Director.
As at 4 January 2009, the Board comprises Tim Stevenson, Chairman: Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive officer: Kevin Dangereld, Chief Financial officer and three independent non-executive Directors.
Biographies of the Directors, including details of their other main commitments are set out on pages 46 and 47.
All Directors submit themselves for election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and for re-election at least once every three years.
Should a non-executive Director serve for more than six years, his re-election would be subject to particularly rigorous review.
Should any Director serve for longer than nine years he would then be subject to annual re-election.
The attendance of each Director at Board and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible Director to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended Tim Stevenson 8 8 552 2 Mark Robertshaw 8 8 2 2 Kevin Dangereld 8 8 # Joseph MacHale 3 311110 0 Martin Flower 8 855552 2 Andrew Given 8 6 5 4542 2 Simon Heale 8 8 5 5552 2 Excludes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of a meeting.
Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent, or in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
# Retired from the Board following the AGM on 18 April 2008.
During 2008, the Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors present on two occasions.
During the year, the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive Directors also met without the Chairman present.
Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which are not resolved, their concerns would be recorded in the Board minutes.
On his retirement, Joe MacHale did not express any such concerns.
An appropriate Directors and Ofcers liability insurance policy is in place.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 53 Business review Governance Financial statements Chairman and Chief Executive officer The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive officer are separate, clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive officer is responsible for running the Companys business.
Board balance and independence Throughout the year the Company complied with the requirement of the Code that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
At the year end, in addition to the Chairman, whom the Company deemed to be independent on appointment, the Board comprised two executive Directors and three further non-executive Directors deemed by the Board to be independent.
In addition to the factors set out in the Code, the Boards assessment of a non-executive Directors independence and effectiveness covers their total number of commitments and any relationships with major suppliers or with charities receiving material support from the Company.
During the year the structure and shape of the Board was reviewed.
As the Board has regular access to and interaction with senior management, and in order to prevent the total size of the Board from becoming unwieldy, it was considered that the current level of executive representation on the Board remains appropriate.
Appointments to the Board As is further detailed in the report of the Nomination Committee, set out on page 57, there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that there are succession plans in place for appointments to the Board and for senior management.
Information and professional development The Board receives, in a timely manner, information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties, with Board papers generally sent out five working days before each meeting.
All Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
Each Directors experience and background is taken into account in developing a tailored programme.
Non-executive Directors are encouraged to visit operating sites and to meet with management.
In addition to visits by individual Directors and the Chairman, each year at least one Board meeting is held at an operating facility.
During 2008 the Board visited three sites in the USA, two in Germany and one in the UK.
Formal Board meetings took place at the Technical Ceramics site in Southampton, UK, the Carbon Divisions Ahrweiler site in Germany and at the Carbon Divisions manufacturing site in Greenville, SC, USA.
Training and development needs are assessed as part of the Board Performance Review process and the Directors regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
The Company Secretary keeps the suitability of external courses under review.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are observed.
A procedure is in place to enable the Directors to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties as Directors.
Performance evaluation The Board undertook a formal evaluation of its performance, its committees and of the individual Directors during the year.
The review consisted of a structured interview between the Chairman and each Director and the Company Secretary.
The one-to-one discussions were complemented by a questionnaire and provided each Director with the opportunity to raise broader issues relating to the Companys strategy and governance.
The results of the review were communicated to the Board with one-to-one feedback where appropriate.
The evaluation concluded that the Board was of the right size: works effectively in that there are open and frank discussions covering the right and relevant issues: governance obligations are covered effectively: and the Board adds value to the executive team.
A number of recommendations are being implemented following the review, including increased reporting between meetings: enhancing the exposure of the Board to senior management, particularly the Divisional Chief Executives: and Board meetings are to be held at manufacturing locations as often as feasible.
The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, met without the Chairman present to evaluate the Chairmans performance during the year, taking into account the views of the executive Directors.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 54 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance continued Remuneration Remuneration policy and practice is discussed in the Remuneration report on pages 59 to 67.
Accountability and audit Financial reporting The balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects as required by the Code is included in the Business review on pages 16 to 45.
The Board also presents updated information in its Interim and other public reports.
A summary of the statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements is set out on page 58 and the going concern statement is set out in the Business review on page 42.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control system annually and did so during the year.
This review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee is assisted by the Risk Management Committee.
The Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial officer, reviews the full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a Group, ensures there are adequate systems in place and evaluates their effectiveness.
Where necessary, the Risk Management Committee initiates action to improve the systems and ensure compliance.
The Directors believe that the Groups system of internal financial controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the assets of the Group are safeguarded: transactions are authorised and recorded in a correct and timely manner: and that such controls would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or irregularities.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to address key business and financial risks, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The internal control framework complements the Groups management structure.
The main features of the Groups systems for internal control and for assessing the potential risks to which the Group is exposed are summarised as follows: 3 Control environment The Groups management processes include delegated authorities and the segregation of duties with documented polices and manuals.
These cover financial procedures, environmental, health and safety practice and other areas.
In addition, there is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The Groups Core Values Statement, Ethics Policy and other supporting policies and procedures set out the Groups commitment to the highest standards of corporate and individual behaviour and provide guidance for employees.
The Ethics and Compliance Helpline is available to support employees and others in this regard.
3 Financial reporting A detailed budgeting system for each Division exists with an annual consolidated budget reviewed and approved by the Board.
Businesses present their revenue and capital expenditure budgets for approval.
Monthly results for the Group are presented to the Executive Committee and the Board, including comparisons against budget and the prior year.
The Groups annual and half yearly results are reported externally, in addition to interim management statements.
The annual results are audited.
3 Performance monitoring There are regular meetings of the Board and of the Executive Committee.
A comparison of forecast and actual results is considered, including cash ows and comparisons against budget and the prior year.
Divisional management teams also meet regularly to review performance.
Presentations of actual and forecast performance are made to the Executive Committee by the Groups Divisional Chief Executive Ofcers.
In addition, regular site visits are made by members of the Executive Committee.
3 Risk management The identication of major business risks is an ongoing process carried out in conjunction with operating management.
Steps are taken to mitigate or manage any material risks identied.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, receives reports on financial, taxation, insurance, pension, legal and social, environmental and ethical risks from management.
The Divisional Chief Executives cover risk issues at their management meetings and the Director of Assurance Risk helps to ensure that internal control and risk management is embedded into the Groups operations.
3 Risk factors Morgans businesses are affected by a number of factors, many of which are inuenced by macroeconomic trends and are therefore outside the Companys immediate control, although, as described above and in the Business Review, the identication and management of such risks is carried out systematically.
3 Internal audit The Groups internal audit function reviews internal control and risk management processes.
The Audit Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives reports accordingly.
Actions resulting from internal audit reviews are agreed with management.
The head of the internal audit function has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 55 Business review Governance Financial statements Audit Committee and auditors The Board has formal and transparent arrangements for considering how the Directors apply the financial reporting and internal control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
This requirement is met by the work of the Audit Committee, as described below, and by the audit work carried out by the Companys external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc.
The Audit Committee has received conrmation from KPMG Audit Plc that its general procedures support the auditors independence and objectivity in relation to non-audit services.
After considering such procedures the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditors objectivity and independence was safeguarded despite the provision of non-audit services by KPMG Audit Plc.
Conicts of interest During the year the Board adopted procedures to address the requirements of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 concerning the duty of the Directors to avoid conicts of interest.
Prior to 1 October 2008, the date on which Section 175 became effective, and in accordance with the GC100 guidance, the Board undertook a review of Directors outside interests to identify actual or potential conicts of interest, including the interests of connected persons where such interests could give rise to an indirect conict.
The only potential conicts of interest identied were outside directorships.
The Board considered each Directors situation and authorised any potential conicts for a period of 15 months from October 2008, to be reviewed annually.
Such authorisation is revocable at any time at the Boards discretion.
In the event of an actual conict arising, the Director concerned is to notify the Chairman the Chairman would notify the Senior Independent Director and the Director would be excluded from the relevant information, debate and decision.
As of 1 October 2008, Directors are required to continue to 1 disclose proposed outside interests before they are taken in order to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conict: and 2 disclose without delay any situation which arises which gives rise to an actual or potential conict.
Once an actual or potential conict has been identied, the Board shall consider whether to authorise the situation and, if so, the terms of any authorisation.
The Board is responsible for undertaking a regular review of authorisations given and will itself, or through one of its committees, ensure that the procedures for reporting and, if appropriate authorising, conicts and potential conicts of interest are operated correctly.
In addition, the Nomination Committee will review the outside interests of a proposed Director to identify actual or potential conicts of interest and will make recommendations to the Board as to whether the situation should be authorised.
Relations with shareholders Dialogue with shareholders The importance of dialogue with major shareholders is recognised and meetings are held in order to help achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
In this respect, the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer make themselves available to major shareholders as appropriate throughout the year, in particular at the time of the Preliminary and Interim announcements.
The Chairman also discusses governance and other matters directly with shareholders.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors are invited to investor briengs and attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
The Senior Independent Director is available to attend separate meetings with major shareholders on request.
Following the announcement of the Groups Preliminary and Interim results and after other significant statements and presentations, investor opinion is canvassed and any feedback is made available to the Board.
In addition, the Board is provided with brokers reports and feedback from shareholder meetings on a regular basis.
To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section of the Companys website includes details of Stock Exchange announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other relevant information.
Constructive use of the AGM The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all members of the Board and by a representative of the auditors.
At the AGM held in April 2008, the Chief Executive officer made a short business presentation.
Shareholders are also invited to ask questions during the meeting and have the opportunity to meet the Directors and other members of senior management before and after the formal meeting.
The results of the proxy voting on all resolutions are provided for all attendees and are released to the London Stock Exchange and published on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 56 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance continued Board committees The full terms of reference of the following Board committees are available upon request and are available on the Companys website.
Audit The Audit Committee assists the Board in effectively discharging its responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Joe MacHale was the Committee Chairman until his retirement as a Director on 18 April 2008 when Andrew Given was appointed Committee Chairman.
All members of the Committee are independent Directors and the Chairman of the Committee has the requisite financial experience.
The Audit Committee met five times during the year and has the power to, and does, request the attendance at meetings of any Director, auditor or member of management as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
At the end of each meeting the non-executive Directors who are members of the Committee also meet the auditors without the executive Directors or other members of management present.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include: 3 Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board with regard to the financial reporting process, the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them.
3 Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Companys internal control, internal audit and risk management systems.
3 Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors.
3 Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements.
3 Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
3 Reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Committee has the authority to investigate any matters according to its terms of reference and may obtain external advice at the cost of the Company.
The Director of Risk Assurance has access to the Chairman of the Committee and meets, when appropriate, with the Committee without other executives present.
The work of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities in 2008 included: 3 Reviewing the Groups 2007 financial statements and 2008 interim statements prior to Board approval.
3 Consideration of the Groups main business risks and receiving regular updates on areas of risk.
3 Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit and risk management systems.
3 Consideration of the work and plans for the internal audit function.
3 Appraisal of the Companys whistleblowing and related procedures and policies.
3 Conrmation of the external auditors terms of engagement and fee structures.
3 Monitoring the level of non-audit work of the auditors, which in 2008 included services amounting to 0.2 million, mainly in connection with the acquisitions completed during the year and tax assistance.
To ensure the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors is in summary as follows: 3 Certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external auditors, including the review of their own work: they may not make management decisions: their work must not create a mutuality of interest: and they may not put themselves in the position of advocate.
3 Any non-audit work proposed to be placed with the external auditors with a fee in excess of 200,000 should be referred to the Audit Committee.
3 The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any non-audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other non-audit work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
The proportion of the auditors fees for non-audit work relative to the audit fee has declined from 36% in 2007 to 11% in 2008.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 57 Business review Governance Financial statements The external auditors have processes in place to safeguard their independence and have written to the Committee conrming that, in their opinion, they are independent.
The Company last changed its auditors in late 2001 and undertook a formal review of the external auditors which included a re-tender presentation during 2007.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the Groups audit work should not be put out to third party tender during 2008.
Remuneration As is further described in the Remuneration report on pages 59 to 67, the Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration for all executive Directors and the Chairman, including benets such as share options and awards under the Companys incentive plans, pension rights and any compensation payments.
The Committee also monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
Tim Stevenson, Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale, who is the Committee Chairman, were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Joe MacHale was a member of the Committee until his retirement from the Board on 18 April 2008.
The Committee is assisted in its duties by the Group Chief Executive, the Company Secretary and the Director of Human Resources, none of whom takes part in discussion of their own remuneration or votes on any resolution.
The Committee also has the power to request, for all or part of any meeting, the attendance of any Director or member of management as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met five times during the year.
It is the Companys policy to disclose the fees of any executive Director who serves as a non-executive Director of another company.
During the year Mark Robertshaw served as a non-executive Director of Rathbone Brothers plc.
The fees received by Mark Robertshaw in this regard are shown on page 64.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee, which includes details of the Committees responsibilities and terms of reference and of the Directors remuneration and Directors interests in options and shares, is set out on pages 59 to 67.
Nomination The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors.
A majority of members of the Nomination Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Tim Stevenson as Chairman of the Committee, Martin Flower, Andrew Given, Simon Heale, and Mark Robertshaw were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Joe MacHale was a member until his retirement from the Board on 18 April 2008.
The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met twice during 2008.
The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
In the light of this review, the Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Candidates for appointment as Director are considered by the Committee, taking advice from external consultants where appropriate.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for inspection.
Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet their commitments to the Company.
Their other significant commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with an indication of the time involved and the Board is informed of any subsequent changes.
The terms of appointment for non-executive Directors do not include a notice period.
