The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 45 Business review Governance Financial statements Key contractual relationships Morgan Crucible benets from contractual Patents and intellectual property Cautionary statement and other relationships with multiple The Group benets from technological This Business review has been prepared for stakeholders, including customers and know-how and other forms of intellectual and only for the members of the Company suppliers, employees, and joint venture property, some of which is covered by as a body and no other persons.
These have been built up over patents.
Collectively this intellectual property is to assist shareholders to assess how the many years to support the Groups supports the development and manufacture Directors have performed their duties, the competitive positioning.
However, as is of new products and services to meet Companys strategies and the potential for described below, no one contractual or customer needs, but no one single patent those strategies to succeed and for no other relationship is considered essential is considered essential to the business of other purpose.
The Company, its Directors, to the business of the Group as a whole.
employees, agents or advisers do not Further information on the Groups Joint venture partners accept or assume responsibility for any stakeholder relationships are included In a number of territories around the world, other purpose or to any other person to elsewhere in this Business review, including the Group has established joint ventures whom this document is shown or into in the Corporate responsibility section with local partners.
Many of these joint whose hands it may come and any such on pages 32 to 39.
As referred to in the ventures have been in operation for many responsibility or liability is expressly Directors report on page 50, a number of years: however, no one individual joint disclaimed.
This Business review contains commercial and contractual agreements venture agreement is considered to be forward looking statements that are include change of control provisions which essential to the business of the Group as subject to risk factors associated with, come into effect in the event of a change a whole.
in ownership of the Company following amongst other things, the economic a takeover.
and business circumstances occurring Banking and other financial relationships from time to time in the countries, sectors Details of significant banking and other Commercial relationships and markets in which the Group operates.
relationships are referred to on page 50 Morgan Crucible benets from close These and other factors could adversely in the Directors report.
However, no one commercial relationships with a large affect the outcome and financial effects individual banking relationship is considered number of customers and suppliers of the plans and events described.
Forward to be essential to the performance and value none of which are individually essential looking statements by their nature involve of the Company.
to the business of the Group as a whole.
a number of risks, uncertainties and Notwithstanding this the Group devotes assumptions because they relate to events significant resources to ensure these and or depend on circumstances that may relationships continue to operate satisfactorily.
or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ Employees materially from those expressed in or Morgan Crucibles most important resource implied by the forward looking statements.
is its people and we employ a highly skilled It is believed that the expectations reected and qualied workforce.
Succession plans in these statements are reasonable but are in place covering key management and they may be affected by a wide range technical roles and as such no individual of such variables.
No assurances can be employee is considered essential to the given that the forward looking statements business of the Group as a whole.
in this Business review will be realised.
The Directors' contracts are referred to The forward looking statements reect on page 64 and are available for inspection the knowledge and information available prior to the AGM and at the Companys at the date of preparation and will not registered ofce.
be updated during the year but will be considered in the Business review for next year.
This Business review has not been audited or otherwise independently veried.
