Corporate Governance 888 Holdings plc the Company is listed on the London projects and considering Group budgets and dividend policy.
Stock Exchange, but it is not subject to the UK Combined The Board also determines key appointments.
The Board Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2006 receives regular updates on shareholders views.
the Code as it is a Gibraltar incorporated company.
The Directors support high standards of Corporate Governance The Board has established a calendar of business.
This and will continue to comply with the Code as far as it is provides for the financial calendar, strategic planning, annual appropriate for a company incorporated in Gibraltar.
budgets and performance self-assessments, as well as the conduct of standing business.
The calendar forms the basis The Board for effective integration of business activities as between the The Directors consider it essential that the Company should Board and its principal Committees see pages 36 and 37, be both led and controlled by an effective Board.
which individually consider their own operating frameworks against the Boards business programme.
Composition The Board consists of eight Directors as follows: three The Board has established a formal process for the annual Independent Non-executive Directors, two non-Independent evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and Non-executive Directors, a Non-executive Chairman, and individual Directors.
The evaluation process covered a range of two Executive Directors, comprising the Chief Executive issues such as Board processes, Board rols and responsibilities, Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
The biographical details of Board agendas and committee processes.
The Board and its all of the Directors are given on page 34. committees were found to be operating effectively.
Strategic approach The Board plans to meet six times a year.
During 2008, the The Board focuses upon the Groups long-term objectives, Board met six times.
strategic and policy issues and considers the management of key risks facing the Group.
The Board is responsible for acquisitions and divestments, major capital expenditure Set out below are details of the Directors attendance record at Board and Committee meetings in 2008.
Total number of meetings held during the year ended December 2008 and the number of meetings attended by each Director Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Total held in year 6 3 5 0 Richard Kilsby 5 n a n a Gigi Levy 6 n a n a n a Aviad Kobrine 6 n a n a n a John Anderson 5 n a n a n a Shay Ben-Yitzhak 5 n a n a n a Michael Constantine 6 3 5 Brian Mattingley 6 3 5 Amos Pickel 4 3 4 n a The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring that agendas for The Board considers that Brian Mattingley, Michael Board meetings are set in advance.
Board papers are issued Constantine and Amos Pickel satisfy the criteria of the Code to Directors sufficiently in advance of meetings to facilitate to act as Independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board both informed debate and timely decisions.
is satisfied that, upon his appointment as Chairman, Richard Kilsby met the independence criteria of the Code.
The other Non-executive review and performance appraisal significant commitments of the Chairman during 2008 are The Chairman holds meetings at least once per year with detailed in his biography on page 34.
The Board considers the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors that Mr Kilsbys other commitments do not interfere with the being present.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the discharge of his responsibilities to the Group and is satisfied Non-executive Directors meet once per year without the that he makes sufficient time available to serve the Company Chairman present in order to appraise the performance of effectively.
The Directors have wide-ranging business experience, and no individual, or group of individuals, dominates the Boards decision making.
indd 35 08 04 2009 17:47 08 04 2009 17:47 16254 08 04 2009 Proof 8 Heading Corporate Governance continued Reserved powers and delegation Audit Committee A schedule of matters reserved to the Board has been The Audit Committee comprises three independent Nonadopted and its content is reviewed to align it with executive Directors: Brian Mattingley Chair, Michael operational needs and the Boards preference to monitor Constantine and Amos Pickel.
The Board is satisfied that and, where appropriate, approve matters of substance to Brian Mattingley has sufficient recent and relevant financial the Group as a whole.
Senior executives have given written experience to Chair the Audit Committee.
Normally, by undertakings to ensure compliance within their business invitation, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief operations with the Boards formal schedule of matters Financial Officer and where appropriate the internal auditor reserved to it for decision or approval.
and representatives of the Companys external auditors attend the Audit Committee meetings.
Division of responsibilities The responsibilities of the Chairman are clearly and formally The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on defined, with the Chairman being responsible for the effective request to the Company Secretary and are included on the operation of the Board as a whole and supporting key Companys website, www.
In summary, the Audit Committee assists the Board in Other issues discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial All Directors have access to the advice and services of the reporting, external and internal audits and controls, including Company Secretary and the Companys nominated advisers, reviewing 888s annual financial statements, considering who are responsible for ensuring that Board procedures the scope of annual audit and the extent of non-audit work are followed.
Directors are able to seek independent undertaken by external auditors, approving 888s internal professional advice, if required, at the Companys expense audit programme, advising on the appointment of external provided that they have first notified their intention to do so.
auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of internal control The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a systems.
matter for the Board as a whole.
Nominations Committee The Board accepts that there should be a formal, rigorous The Nominations Committee comprises three independent and transparent procedure for the induction of new Directors, Non-executive Directors: Michael Constantine Chair, which has been formulated with the guidance of the Brian Mattingley and Amos Pickel as well as Richard Kilsby, Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee did not meet during 2008.
The opportunity to hold office as Non-executive Directors of other companies enables Directors of 888 to broaden their The Nominations Committee assists the Board in discharging experience and knowledge, which will benefit the Company.
its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
Executive Directors may be allowed to accept non-executive The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing, appointments with the Boards prior permission, so long from time to time, the structure of the Board, determining as these are not likely to lead to any conflict of interest.
succession plans for the Chairman and Chief Executive Executive Directors may be required to account for fees Officer, and identifying and recommending suitable received from such other companies.
candidates for appointment as Directors.
The Nominations Committees terms of reference are available on request to The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of the Company Secretary and are included on the Companys legal actions against its Directors.
To the extent permitted by website, www.
Gibraltar law, the Company also indemnifies the Directors.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where Remuneration Committee a Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Companys Remuneration Committee comprises three independent Non-executive Directors: Brian Mattingley chair Re-election of Directors Michael Constantine and Amos Pickel.
All Directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, The Board has overall responsibility for determining the and thereafter, in accordance with the Articles of Association framework of Executive remuneration and its cost.
It is of the Company, at intervals of no more than three years.
required to take account of any recommendation made Gigi Levy and John Anderson were appointed as Directors by the Remuneration Committee in determining the Mr Anderson for an initial period of three years at the 2007 remuneration, benefits and employment packages of the Annual General Meeting.
Richard Kilsby, Shay Ben Itzhak and Executive Directors and senior management and the fees of Aviad Kobrine were appointed for a period of three years, the Chairman.
following their reappointment by the shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
indd 36 08 04 2009 17:47 08 04 2009 17:47 16254 08 04 2009 Proof 8 The Remuneration Report, which outlines the Remuneration All shareholders are welcome to attend the 2009 Annual Committees work and details of Directors remuneration, General Meeting and private investors are encouraged to is on pages 38 to 39.
The Remuneration Committees take advantage of the opportunity given to ask questions.
terms of reference are available on request to the Company The Chairmen or nominated members of the Audit, Secretary and are included on the Companys website, Remuneration and Nominations Committees will attend the www.
meeting and be available to answer questions.
Risk Management and Internal Control Compliance with the Code Provisions The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the As 888 Holdings Public Limited Company is registered in Companys system of internal control, for setting policy on Gibraltar, it is subject to compliance with Gibraltar statutory internal control, and for reviewing the effectiveness of internal requirements and is not bound by the UK Combined Code.
It is managements role to implement Board policies The main legislation relevant to companies in Gibraltar is on risk and control, including reporting.
The system of the Gibraltar Companies Act, which is based on the UK internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate Companies Act 1929. the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against Going Concern material misstatement or loss.
After careful review of the Groups budget for 2009, its medium-term plans, liquid resources and all relevant matters The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit the Directors are confident that the Company and the Group Committee to review the appropriateness and adequacy have adequate financial resources to continue in operational of systems of internal control on an ongoing basis and to existence for the foreseeable future.
They have therefore make recommendations to the Board.
The Company has an continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the internal auditor who reports to the Audit Committee, whose financial statements.
audit programme for 2008 was reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee early in 2008.
Corporate and Social Responsibility Statement 888s payment risk management team, based in Gibraltar, The Groups Chief Executive Officer is the Director has developed stringent payment risk management and responsible for monitoring corporate and social responsibility fraud control procedures.
The team makes use of external within 888.
The Board receives periodic reports on the and internal systems to manage the payment risks faced Groups activities in this area from the Chief Executive by 888s operational systems.
Further details are set out in the Corporate Social throughout the Companys operations and compliance is Responsibility report on page 27. monitored by operational management and the internal auditor.
Community Sponsorship The Directors periodically review the effectiveness of the 888 is a sizeable employer with a visible presence in Gibraltar Groups systems of internal control.
The review considers and enjoys a good relationship with the local community.
individual risk control responsibilities, reporting lines and During 2008, the Group continued its policy of reinforcing qualitative assessments of residual risks.
this relationship by making contributions to a number of local causes, primarily educational.
Relations with Shareholders and Key Financial Audiences Charities The Company maintains an active and regular dialogue In 2008, the Group made donations totalling US$107,821 with principal and institutional shareholders and sell-side 2007: US$232,000 to organizations promoting various analysts through a planned programme of investor relations social causes in Gibraltar and Israel.
The outcome of these meetings is reported to the Board.
The programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results, quarterly release of Interim Management Statements, analysts conference calls and periodic road shows.
Brian Mattingley, the Senior Independent Director, is available to shareholders to address any issues where contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer is inappropriate or where such contact has failed to resolve the issue.
