Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to the principles of good corporate governance Board processes set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by The Board is scheduled to meet monthly and no less than 10 times the Financial Reporting Council in July 2006 the Code.
In the year under review, the Board met 13 times.
The Board sets out the Companys compliance with the Code.
The Company also also meets at least once a year to review the strategic direction of the seeks to comply with various corporate governance guidelines such Group.
In addition to normal scheduled meetings, the Board convenes as those issued by the Association of British Insurers and the National to deal with urgent matters.
A table showing attendance of the main Association of Pension Funds.
Committees and the Board is on page 49.
Comprehensive papers are circulated to Directors in advance of Board meetings and presentations Statement of compliance with the Combined Code made at meetings where appropriate.
During the year the Company conducted a review of corporate governance and has complied with the provisions set out in The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet annually without section 1 of the Code except in respect of the number of independent the Executive Directors present.
The Senior Independent Director is Non-Executive Directors appointed to the Audit and Remuneration responsible for leading the appraisal of the Chairmans performance Committees for the first three months of the financial year.
Debbie with the other Non-Executive Directors.
Hewitt was appointed to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees in October 2007 and since then the Company has been In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one-third fully compliant with the provisions of the Code.
of the Board is required to retire by rotation each year, but if any Director has, at the start of the AGM, been in office for three years or more since The Board his or her last appointment or re-appointment, he or she shall retire at The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive the AGM.
In addition, any Director appointed during the year is subject Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Board believes that to election at the AGM after their appointment.
The Non-Executive all Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and have Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term after which they no business or other relationships which could materially interfere with are subject to annual re-appointment.
the exercise of their independent judgement.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined.
Lynton Barker Chairman was appointed as Non-Executive Director in April 2008 and deemed Richard Benton became Chairman of Mouchel in 2001 and of the by the Board to be independent on his appointment.
It is acknowledged combined Group in 2003.
He also chairs the Nomination Committee.
however, that Mr Barkers previous position as Chairman of Hedra, a The Chairman carries responsibility for ensuring the efficient operation company acquired by the Group in March 2008, means that by strict of the Board and its Committees, for ensuring that corporate definition of the Code, he is not deemed to be independent.
Mr Barker governance matters are addressed, and for representing the Group plays a non-executive role within the Group and does not have externally and communicating with shareholders when required.
Chief Executive The Board annually reviews the composition of the Board and is The Chief Executive, Richard Cuthbert, is responsible for the executive aware that as the Company grows there may be the need for additional management of the Group.
He is responsible for leading the development Non-Executive Directors to be appointed.
Directors biographical and implementation of the Groups strategy following its approval details are set out on page 41, together with details of Board by the Board.
The Chief Executive is also responsible for chairing the Committee memberships.
Group Management Board, and leading and motivating the senior management team, ensuring that their interests are aligned with the The role of the Board shareholders.
The Chief Executive leads the communication programme The Boards principal responsibility is to deliver shareholder value with analysts and potential investors, providing feedback to the Board and provide an overall vision and leadership for the Group.
It also has on a regular basis.
an oversight role, monitoring operational plans and ensuring internal controls and risk management are effective.
There is a formal schedule Senior Independent Director of matters reserved for the Board, which provides a framework for the The Senior Independent Director, Rodney Westhead, is available to Board to oversee the control of the Groups direction and affairs.
These shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the include the approval of the Financial Statements and dividends, strategy, normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director acquisitions and disposals, major projects, contracts, delegated have failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
authorities, major capital expenditure, risk management strategies, He is responsible for leading the meeting of the Non-Executive Directors health and safety and succession planning.
Whilst the Board is at least once a year, without the Chairman present, to appraise the responsible for the overall strategy of the Group, and meets at least Chairmans performance, and on such other occasions as are once a year to review strategy and the future of the business, the deemed appropriate.
implementation of the strategy is delegated to the Chief Executive.
The Board is assisted in carrying out its duties by the Board Committees which are described on pages 47 to 49.
The Directors are satisfied that the Board continues to deliver a strategic vision and effective leadership for the Group.
Corporate Governance Report 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 46 Mouchel Group plc Company Secretary The aim of the induction programme is to equip the Directors with All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company up-to-date knowledge of their duties, and on the Company and its Secretary and may, in furtherance of their duties, seek independent businesses to enable them to participate fully at Board meetings.
Both professional advice, including legal advice at the Companys expense.
Lynton Barker and Debbie Hewitt undertook the induction programme The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board on joining as Non-Executive Directors and found their induction procedures and applicable rules and regulations are followed.
The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman, ensures that the information presented to the Board is not only timely but of Board Committees sufficient quality to enable members to make informed decisions.
The Board is assisted in discharging its responsibilities through the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee, Board performance and evaluation Banking Committee, General Business Committee, Disclosure Committee The Board is committed to evaluating its own performance.
This year, and Shares Committee.
Membership of the Audit, Remuneration and the Board undertook a formal and thorough evaluation of its own Nomination Committees consists wholly of Non-Executive Directors.
performance and that of its Committees.
The evaluation was conducted In addition to the Board Committees, the Group Management Board in accordance with suggestions for good practice contained in the assists the Chief Executive in implementing the day-to-day Higgs Report.
Each Board member completed a detailed questionnaire, management responsibilities of the Group.
the responses to which were all reviewed by the Chairman and discussed with the entire Board.
In 2008, the Board considered the Each Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which merit of using an external body to manage the performance evaluation are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference are available on the process and concluded that it remained appropriate for the Board to Companys website.
The Board is kept fully informed of the decisions evaluate its own performance.
of its Committees and the minutes are circulated with the Board papers.
A summary of the Committees of the Board and their membership is The evaluation covered areas such as the Boards role and culture, provided below.
strategy, current issues and performance, investors, risk management and controls, individual Board member contributions, knowledge and skills, Group Management Board Board structure, succession planning, Board meetings and Committees The Group Management Board GMB supports the Chief Executive including the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The and other Executive Directors in the performance of their duties, including: outcome of the evaluation was positive and a number of actions have already been taken.
The outcome of the evaluations undertaken over the the development and implementation of strategy, the Group past four years was also reviewed and the progress on any actions noted.
corporate plan and operational plans, policies, procedures There has been an increase in the availability of continued professional and budgets: development for the Directors.
Succession planning throughout the Group the monitoring of operating and financial performance on a and up to Board level has also been improved.
day-to-day basis: the assessment and control of risk: Directors induction and training the prioritisation and allocation of resources: The Board meets regularly with key senior managers in order to gain ensuring active co-operation and communication between all parts a better understanding of the businesses.
A formal schedule of annual of the business: updates on legislative and regulatory changes with respect to Directors monitoring of competitors: and duties, listing rules, health and safety and corporate governance is leading and facilitating change and learning in the organisation.
built in to the Board agenda when required.
These presentations are provided, where relevant, by the Companys Corporate Lawyers, The GMB is chaired by the Chief Executive, and comprises the Group Brokers, Health and Safety Director or Company Secretary.
External Finance Director, the Company Secretary, the HR Director and the training is also made available where appropriate.
Board members are Managing Directors of the principal businesses.
able to attend external courses where they feel that these will keep them updated or will improve their effectiveness as a Director.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, chaired by Ian Knight, assists the Board On appointment, new Directors undertake a wide-ranging induction in discharging its responsibilities regarding the Groups Financial programme.
This programme includes an introductory pack prepared Statements and associated announcements, the adequacy of internal by the Company Secretary, providing information on the Company, control and risk management systems and the work of the external such as terms of reference, Board processes, compliance, governance Auditors.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee were reviewed and business area reviews.
Site visits and meetings with key senior during the year, and a copy of the current terms of reference is available management, the Groups Auditors, Lawyers, Brokers and Remuneration on the Companys website.
The Committees other members are Debbie Consultants are also arranged.
The Directors also attend external courses Hewitt and Rodney Westhead.
The Board believes that Ian Knight and where necessary.
Rodney Westhead have recent and relevant financial experience.
Corporate Governance Report 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 47 Mouchel Group plc Corporate Governance Report continued The external Auditors, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial In each case, where non-audit services are used, a separate Partner Controllers and the Chief Executive regularly attend meetings at the who is independent of the Audit Engagement Partner is appointed invitation of the Committee.
The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet to manage and sign off that work to ensure that there is no question no less than three times a year and met three times during the year under of conflict or independence.
The Audit Committee debates the review.
At the beginning of each meeting, the Committee meets the Auditors appropriateness of appointing PwC and weighs up the benefit of PwCs without the presence of the Executive Directors, and then separately working knowledge of the Group against other firms to consider which with the Executive Directors without the presence of the Auditors.
firm will provide the most appropriate and cost-effective services.
The Audit Committee is responsible for the integrity of the Financial A breakdown of audit and non-audit fees can be found in note 4 of the Statements and the Groups internal controls and risk management Notes to the Financial Statements on page 71. structure.
During the year, the Committees deliberations included the following matters: Banking Committee The Banking Committee comprises any two Directors and is authorised, the review of Half-Year and Full-Year financial results in advance amongst other things, to carry out administrative matters relating to the of their consideration by the Board, paying particular attention to Groups bank accounts, to approve agreements relating to loans and significant financial reporting judgements, any changes in accounting other facilities, to approve changes to authorised instruments, to enter policies and practices and any findings post audit: into any corporate treasury transactions up to a maximum amount the review of the nature and scope of the external audit and the of 25 million in respect of finance leases, debentures, bonds, loan findings of the Auditors in respect of Annual and Half-Year Reports: notes and other securities, to approve any transactions under the the review of the Auditors independence and the policy on the Companys credit facility and to approve any documents amending provision of non-audit services: the Companys banking facilities provided that the amendments are the recommendation of the re-appointment of  not material.
The minutes are circulated and noted by the Board at LLP as Auditors and the setting of their remuneration: subsequent Board meetings.
the monitoring of the Groups financial and non-financial risk and internal controls: Disclosure Committee the review of the effectiveness of the internal systems with respect The Disclosure Committee assists and informs the Chief Executive on to financial control and Group risk: his decisions concerning the identification of inside information and its a review of the necessity for an internal audit function: disclosure.
The Disclosure Committee comprises the Chief Executive a review of the means by which employees may raise concerns and the Group Finance Director and or any other Director of the regarding the systems of internal financial control: and Company and meets as and when required.
The Disclosure Committee a review of the whistle-blowing policy and the fraud policy.
also reviews the Companys Annual Reports, Half-Year Results announcements and all other material disseminated to shareholders.
In the absence of an internal audit function, the Audit Committee The minutes are circulated and noted by the Board at subsequent reviewed the necessity for such a function.
An internal independent Board meetings.
Business Review Function was introduced in 2007 and provides further rigour to the internal control and risk management process.
The Audit General Business Committee Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the independent Business The General Business Committee enables the Board to deal with Review Function in conjunction with the other risk management and time-critical issues that arise between Board meetings that are within control processes throughout the Group and concluded that the the ordinary course of business.
Its membership consists of any two controls and wider business review processes in place were robust Directors.
The minutes are circulated and noted by the Board at and sufficient to meet the needs of the Group without an internal audit subsequent Board meetings.
The internal control and risk management processes are discussed in more detail on pages 49 and 50.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Richard Benton.
Its members Prior to the award of non-audit work, the Audit Committee reviews comprise Ian Knight, Sir Michael Lyons, Rodney Westhead, Debbie and determines which firm is able to offer the most appropriate Hewitt and Lynton Barker.
The Chief Executive attends by invitation advice which is in the best interests of the Company, its shareholders of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the and stakeholders.
structure, size, composition and skills of the Board, presenting suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies, reviewing succession planning for During the year, non-audit services have been provided by the Board and senior managers, evaluating the time commitment of the  PwC covering pensions advice, tax advice Chairman and Non-Executive Directors, undertaking the performance and acquisition due diligence.
On pensions, a beauty parade of five evaluation of the Board and reviewing the re-appointment of advisors was undertaken before appointing PwC as pensions advisor Non-Executive Directors.
On tax advice, given its working knowledge of the Group and its structure, the Audit Committee deemed it appropriate to The Committees performance was evaluated as part of the overall use PwC as another firm would have to spend considerably more time, Board evaluation exercise.
The Committee is responsible for assessing and therefore incur cost, in understanding the structure and workings the composition, diversity and skill set of the Board and is aware that of the Group.
On acquisition advice, it was judged that PwCs working as the Company grows there may be a future need to expand the size knowledge of the Group was essential to due diligence work and of the Board.
The Committee will regularly review this need.
There is a without that knowledge, additional costs would have been incurred.
robust procedure for selecting candidates for vacancies.
An external executive search consultant is used to identify and recommend suitable candidates who are shortlisted by the Remuneration Committee.
Candidates then undergo a rigorous interview process and references are taken from Advisors and other companies to whom the candidates are known.
The whole Board will meet the candidates before an appointment is made.
Corporate Governance Report 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 48 Mouchel Group plc Remuneration Committee It is the responsibility of management to ensure that the controls and The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sir Michael Lyons.
Its other procedures that operate within the framework are followed and that members are Rodney Westhead and Debbie Hewitt.
The Chief Executive, the Board is kept fully appraised of any risks and control issues, both Group Finance Director, Company Secretary and HR Director attend by operational and financial, that arise from the reporting structures which invitation.
The Committee met five times during the year under review.
The exist within the Group.
The Board recognises that any system of internal report of the Remuneration Committee can be found on pages 51 to 55. control exists to minimise the risk of failure rather than to eliminate it, and that any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, Shares Committee not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Shares Committee facilitates the exercise of awards under the Companys various share schemes.
Its membership consists of any The risk management of joint ventures and strategic partnerships two directors.
Its terms of reference are narrowly defined and limited to is agreed between the parties and periodic reviews are carried out the allotment of new shares and transfer of shares from the employee where appropriate.
benefit trusts with respect to satisfying awards under all or any of the Companys Sharesave schemes, approved and unapproved share The Audit Committee annually reviews the effectiveness of the risk option schemes, the Co-Investment Plan, Performance Share Plan, management system and its internal controls and reports its findings Restricted Share Plan and any other long-term incentive plans.
Following recommendation by the Board, it may also authorise the grant of options under the Companys share schemes.
The framework through which the Group mitigates both operational and financial risk is described below.
The Group continually looks Board attendance table for ways to improve these processes and this year there have been Directors attendance of both Board and Committee meetings during a number of initiatives designed to reduce the commercial exposure the year ended 31 July 2008 was as follows: of the Group and further embed a risk management culture within the Group.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings held 13 3 5 5 Strategic control The Board reviews the Groups strategic plans annually.
Progress Non-Executive Directors against the strategic plan is monitored at Board and GMB meetings.
Lynton Barker 3 1 The GMB is responsible for monitoring the Groups strategic progress 1 1 Richard Benton 11 1 2 4 and is accountable to the Board in this regard.
Debbie Hewitt 11 3 5 4 1 Ian Knight 12 3 1 5 Delegated authorities 1 Sir Michael Lyons 12 1 5 4 The Board has set clear terms of reference for its Committees, Rodney Westhead 13 2 4 5 all of which were reviewed during the financial year.
The Group has an organisational reporting structure with clearly defined delegated Executive Directors 1 1 1 authorities to executive management and reporting systems for Richard Cuthbert 13 3 5 5 1 1 1 financial results, risk exposure and control assessment.
Kevin Young 12 3 1 5 Financial control 1 Attendance at the meeting was by invitation from the Committee.
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the Board.
Each business stream prepares monthly results with Internal control and risk management a comparison against budget and forecast.
The Chief Executive and The Board is responsible for establishing, reviewing and maintaining the Group Finance Director hold monthly review meetings with each of Groups systems of internal control and risk management and ensuring the Managing Directors of the individual business streams.
Actions that these systems are effective for managing the business risk within are identified and a financial report prepared for the GMB and Board the Group.
for review of the Group as a whole.
The Group has established a framework for identifying, evaluating and IT systems managing significant risks faced by the Group.
The framework of risk The Group has established controls and procedures over the security management and internal control operating within the Group has been of data held on IT systems and has put in place disaster recovery in place throughout the year and is in accordance with the Turnbull arrangements.
The framework is reviewed annually and is designed to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets whilst Business stream controls ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained.
Each business stream is responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing major business risks.
Procedures are in place to ensure that risks are identified from project bidding stage through to project completion stage and include reviews against key performance indicators.
Corporate Governance Report 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 49 Mouchel Group plc Corporate Governance Report continued Risk management Relations with shareholders The Board has overall responsibility for identifying, evaluating and The Board is committed to a continuing dialogue with its institutional managing major business risks facing the Group.
Following the announcement and presentation of the business assessments of risk exposure and control and determines interim and year-end results, there are a series of formal meetings with appropriate action.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, institutional shareholders.
These meetings are a two-way dialogue evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the business.
whereby the Executive Directors can appraise the investors of the Groups The process involves monthly reports, by management, of the risk and business and future plans and the shareholders can communicate any internal control issues faced by their business.
These risks are then concerns they may have.
The Non-Executive Directors and Chairman reported to the GMB and the Audit Committee and the Board is kept are available to attend these meetings if requested.
The Companys fully appraised of any risks and internal control issues arising from these brokers and financial PR advisors provide feedback from the reports.
A Bid Committee meets fortnightly and reviews all material bids.
shareholder and analyst meetings and present the results to the Board.
The Board also receives monthly reports and key performance measures on health, safety and environmental matters.
The Groups investor relations section on its website contains information on the Groups financial results, its corporate policies, Internal audit its stock exchange announcements, analysts presentations and the In the absence of an internal audit function, a Business Review Function, terms of reference for each of the Board Committees.
Additionally, an internal independent review function, was introduced in 2007 in order the AGM provides a useful interface with shareholders.
All shareholders to provide further rigour to the internal control and risk management are invited to attend the AGM and all members of the Board will be process.
It reports to the GMB, Audit Committee and the main Board.
available at the meeting to answer questions.
The Business Review Functions remit is to review, as part of the Groups risk management, the performance and conduct of the Groups projects, The Company seeks to promote the use of e-communications and contracts, joint ventures and partnerships, examining any relevant encourages its shareholders to sign up to receive Company circulars components of performance, including financial and commercial by email.
matters, risks and exposures, resourcing issues, client relationships, progress and performance against programme.
It also reviews and Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf reports on the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls including systems and processes.
Amanda Massie Group Company Secretary 28 October 2008 Corporate Governance Report 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 50 Mouchel Group plc
