Operating and Financial Review Relationships and Resources The Group Image caption s most important resource is our employees Discontinued operations Following the decision by the Group in October 2008 to exit the business, Dot2Dot has been classified as a discontinued operation in 2008.
The normalised pre-tax loss in the year was 8.3 million 2007: 4.8 million loss and, after tax relief of 2.8 million and an exceptional write-off of 4.2 million, total after-tax loss was 9.7 million 2007: 3.4 million loss.
The operation was sold on 9 January 2009.
In addition, discontinued operations includes an exceptional charge of 3.7 million for additional tax liabilities arising from prior year disposals.
Stakeholder relationships The Group has a broad range of stakeholders who are key to the achievement of our Our expertise business objectives.
External stakeholders We are a first class operator, delivering Resources include those who award us our contracts excellent services safely and reliably, across the UK Department for Transport, local different countries and cultures, and across The Group accesses a range of resources authorities, transport bodies and school rail, bus and coach: to deliver its objectives and service its boards: our customers, who use our Our contracts stakeholders.
These include: services: our suppliers, trade unions and Contract tenure provides a degree of non-governmental organisations.
Internal Our people certainty and risk management in delivering stakeholders focus around our employees, In our service based business, the Groups shareholder value.
whose hard work and commitment enable most important resource is our people.
us to deliver our services every day.
Strong employee satisfaction helps deliver high customer satisfaction: We have an active stakeholder engagement programme, through regular meetings Our brand Joint ventures and associates and events, open forums, magazines and National Express is the most recognised websites.
Interaction occurs at a Group, brand amongst UK transport groups, The Group has a number of associates and divisional and local level, maintaining achieving number 130 in the Superbrand joint ventures in Spain.
It also holds a 40% stakeholder plans to address needs and ranking for 2008 09.
Integration of UK investment in Inter-Capital and Regional Rail support the business.
Internal stakeholders operations in early 2008 has helped develop Limited ICRRL.
These investments made engage through management conferences, the National Express master brand, with a profit of nil in 2008 2007: 0.4 million employee magazines, intranet sites, meetings building recognition of the brand across profit.
The Groups Eurostar contract with and conference calls.
Customer and employee rail and bus, beyond its traditional coach ICRRL was designated an onerous contract views are solicited through regular surveys, heartland.
The brand is also used in 2006 and the losses provided for to the and coach and East Coast rail customers corporately in North America and Spain: end of the contract in 2010.
Consequently, can text comments about their journey.
there is no charge to the income statement Our customers for this contract in 2008.
We continue to develop our customer relationship management systems and databases, to optimise our service delivery to customers.
During 2008, we have significantly grown the size of our contactable customer database and CRM activity over all business units: Our reputation The Groups reputation as a reliable, safe transport operator enables customers to award contracts to us knowing that we can deliver customers expectations: 30 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
