Corporate governance Corporate governance within National Grid Corporate governance within National Grid Gas As a part of the National Grid group of companies, National Grid Gas does not have a separate Board of National Grid corporate governance process, but instead is subject to National Grids corporate governance The Board of National Grid plc has delegated responsibility for the operational management of process, which is described on pages 88 to 97 of the National Grid plc Annual Report and the businesses of National Grid to executive committees, composed of members of the Board Accounts 2007 08. of National Grid and directors of the businesses.
Responsibility for the operational management of the gas distribution businesses has been delegated to the Distribution Executive Committee.
The Board of National Grid considers that it complied in full with the Combined Code during 2007 08 except temporarily in respect of the requirement for at least half the Board, excluding Responsibility for treasury activities in respect of National Grid Gas is retained by the Finance the Chairman, to consist of independent Non-executive Directors, a position which has now Committee of National Grid and a detailed description of treasury policy is provided on page 21 been corrected.
of the Operating and Financial Review.
National Grid corporate governance process Matters reserved for the Board of National Grid include: The principle elements of National Grids corporate governance process comprise: corporate governance including establishment of executive committees, internal control a published governance framework: arrangements, National Grid Code of Business Practice, delegations of authority, and independent Non-executive Directors for National Grid plc: public position statements and codes: separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive of National Grid plc: approval of financial policy, material changes to accounting policies, the budget and appointment of a Senior Independent Director: business plan for National Grid and the business strategy of National Grid: appropriate development of Directors: funding and managerial arrangements for pension schemes: and monitoring of the performance of the Board of National Grid plc: appointment of auditors.
clear definition of the role and responsibilities of the Board of National Grid plc, including Board of National Grid Gas the establishment of an Executive Committee and a Finance Committee: The Board of National Grid Gas plc is responsible for ensuring that all the businesses of independent Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, and Risk & Responsibility Committees National Grid Gas comply with all relevant laws and regulations, including compliance with the comprised of Non-executive Directors: and Gas Transporter Licences and with the business separation requirements of Special Condition Internal control C20 of the NTS Gas Transporter Licence.
These business separation requirements are The Board of National Grid plc is responsible for internal control within the National Grid group discussed in more detail below.
Details of this internal control process are set out on page 94 of the National Grid The Board of National Grid Gas is responsible for appointing the members of the Distribution plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08.
Compliance management Compliance management is undertaken on a National Grid wide basis and details of the compliance management process are set out on page 95 of the National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08.
28 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 National Grid Gas has taken the following actions to comply with the requirements of Special Distribution Executive Committee The Distribution Executive Committee acts within National Grids overall corporate governance Condition C20: framework and delegated authorities, and is responsible for the operational and financial established separate management for the gas transmission and gas distribution management of the distribution businesses and achieving performance targets set by the Board businesses, as described above: of National Grid.
appointed separate Compliance Committees for each of the gas transmission business The Distribution Executive Committee meets on a monthly basis, and membership and and the gas distribution business.
Each Compliance Committee reports directly to the attendance at meetings were as follows during 2007 08: board of National Grid Gas and also to the Audit Committee of National Grid: and appointed a Business Separation Compliance Officer, who reports to the Compliance Name Attendance Committees and twice yearly to the Audit Committee of National Grid.
Mark Fairbairn Chair Executive Director of National Grid 9 of 11 Jeremy Bending Director, Network Strategy 8 of 11 Risk management Jon Butterworth Director, Operations 10 of 11 Understanding and managing risks is integral to the way National Grid Gas is run.
National Grid Mike Calviou Director of Distribution Support 10 of 11 Gas has a well established risk management process that ensures risks are consistently Isobel Hoseason Director of Communications resigned December 2007 5 of 8 assessed, recorded and reported in a visible, structured and continuous manner, the outputs of Alison Kay UK General Counsel resigned January 2008 9 of 9 which are primarily used as a management tool.
A secondary and natural output from this Helen Mahy General Counsel and Company Secretary appointed February 2 of 2 process is information that provides assurance to management at all levels and thus helps 2008 safeguard its assets and reputation.
It has been designed to manage rather than eliminate Adam Mallalieu Director of UK Safety, Health, Environment and Security 7 of 11 material risks to the achievement of our strategic and business objectives, while also Peter Massey Director of Transformation 10 of 11 recognising that any such process can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Andy Pearman Head of IS Gas Distribution 6 of 11 against material misstatement or loss.
This process complies with the Turnbull working party Rowan Sharples Director of UK Construction 10 of 11 guidance revised October 2005.
Paul Whittaker UK Director of Regulation 10 of 11 The risk management process continues to be based on both bottom-up and top-down Adam Wiltshire Director of Finance 8 of 11 assessments of operational, financial and other business or project risks.
From the bottom-up, Nick Worrall UK HR Director resigned December 2007 5 of 8 National Grid Gass business units prepare and maintain risk registers that capture key risks Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend.
It includes attendance and the actions being taken to manage them.
These risk registers are regularly reviewed and by a nominated deputy.
discussed by the executive committees for those business units.
The key element in the topThe Distribution Executive Committee has a number of sub-committees dealing with matters down assessments of the enterprise-wide risk profile is the involvement of Directors and other such as investment governance and coordination of operations.
senior management at critical stages in the review process.
Their review and debate of bottomup assessments produces the overall evaluations of the risks that are faced by National Grid Business separation Gas.
In addition, the Executive, the Risk & Responsibility and the Audit Committees of National Special Condition C20 of National Grid Gass NTS gas transporter licence requires that Grid plc review National Grids overall risk profile twice a year.
The Audit Committee of National National Grid Gas maintains managerial and operational systems such that: Grid plc also reviews the risk management process at least once a year and reports on this to the Board of National Grid plc.
the DN businesses do not gain unfair commercial advantage by reason of the way National Grid Gas conducts its NTS business, as required by Standard Special Condition Risk factors A6: and National Grid Gass risk management process has identified the following principal risk factors cross-subsidy between the NTS business and the DN businesses is avoided, as required which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of by Standard Special Condition A35.
operations and reputation, as well as the value and liquidity of its securities.
Not all of these National Grid Gass policy on business separation is set out in its Compliance Statement.
factors are within its control.
In addition, other factors besides those listed below may have an adverse effect on National Grid Gas.
These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the Operating and Financial Review on pages 2 to 27.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 29 Changes in law or regulation Achievement of business performance objectives, including regulatory targets and National Grid Gass principal businesses are subject to regulation by the UK Government and delivering anticipated cost and efficiency savings other authorities such as Ofgem.
Consequently, changes in law or regulation could adversely Earnings maintenance and growth from National Grid Gass regulated gas businesses will be affect it.
Regulatory decisions concerning, for example, whether licences or approvals to affected by its ability to meet or exceed efficiency targets and service quality standards set by or operate are granted or are renewed, whether there has been any breach of the terms of a agreed with Ofgem.
In addition, from time to time, National Grid Gas publishes cost and licence or approval, recovery of incurred expenditure and the level of permitted revenues for efficiency savings targets for its businesses.
National Grid Gas has also substantially completed National Grid Gass businesses, could have an adverse impact on its results of operations, reorganising its operations along lines of business.
To meet these targets and standards, cash flows, the financial condition of its businesses and the ability to develop those businesses National Grid Gas must continue to improve operational performance, service reliability and in the future.
If National Grid Gas do not meet these targets and standards, or it does not complete implementation of this reorganisation as envisaged, it may not achieve the expected Breaches of environmental or health and safety law or regulations benefits, its business may be adversely affected and its performance, results of operations and The transmission and distribution of natural gas is potentially dangerous.
National Grid Gas reputation may be harmed.
also uses or generate in its operations hazardous and potentially hazardous products and byproducts.
National Grid Gas is subject to laws and regulations relating to pollution, the Regulatory treatment of commodity costs passed through to consumers protection of the environment, and how it uses and disposes of hazardous substances and Changes in commodity prices could potentially impact National Grid Gass gas transmission waste materials.
These expose National Grid Gas to costs and liabilities relating to its and distribution businesses.
Current regulatory arrangements provide the ability to passoperations and its properties whether current, including those inherited from predecessor through virtually all of the increased costs related to commodity prices to consumers.
However, bodies, or formerly owned by it.
National Grid Gas is also subject to laws and regulations if Ofgem were to restrict this ability, it could have an adverse effect on National Grid Gass governing health and safety matters protecting the public and its employees.
National Grid Gas commits significant expenditure toward complying with these laws and Reputation damage from disruptions to supply, even if outside National Grid Gass regulations.
If additional requirements are imposed or National Grid Gass ability to recover control these costs changes, this could have a material impact on its businesses and its results of National Grid Gass gas transmission and distribution businesses are responsible for operations and financial position.
Any breach of these obligations, or even incidents that do not transporting available gas.
National Grid Gas consults with and provides information to amount to a breach, could adversely affect National Grid Gass results of operations and its regulators, governments and industry participants about future demand and the availability of reputation.
However, where there is insufficient supply, National Grid Gass role is to manage the relevant network safely, which in extreme circumstances may require it to disconnect For further information about environmental and health and safety matters in National Grid, see consumers, which may damage National Grid Gass reputation.
the National Grid Gass Responsibility section of National Grids website at www.
Fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on borrowings and derivatives National Grid Gass results of operations may be affected because a significant proportion of its Network failure or the inability to carry out critical non-network operations borrowings and derivative financial instruments are affected by changes in interest rates.
National Grid Gas may suffer a major network failure or may not be able to carry out critical non-network operations.
Operational performance could be adversely affected by a failure to Restrictions in borrowings, adverse changes in the global credit markets and changes in maintain the health of the system or network, inadequate forecasting of demand or inadequate credit ratings or in tax rates record keeping.
This could cause it to fail to meet agreed standards of service or be in breach National Grid Gas is subject to certain covenants and restrictions in relation to its listed debt of a licence or approval, and even incidents that do not amount to a breach could result in securities and its bank lending facilities.
National Grid Gas is also subject to restrictions on adverse regulatory and financial consequences, as well as harming National Grid Gass financing which have been imposed by regulators.
These restrictions may hinder it in servicing reputation.
the financial requirements of its businesses.
Some of National Grid Gass debt is rated by credit rating agencies and changes to these ratings may affect both its borrowing capacity and the In addition to these risks, National Grid Gas may be affected by other potential events that are cost of those borrowings.
National Grid Gass borrowing capacity and cost of borrowing could largely outside of its control such as the impact of weather or unlawful acts of third parties.
also be affected by adverse changes in the global credit markets.
The effective rate of tax Weather conditions can affect financial performance and severe weather that damages National Grid Gas pays may be influenced by a number of factors including changes in law and infrastructure will adversely affect operational and potentially business performance and accounting standards, the results of which could increase that rate.
Terrorist attack, sabotage or other intentional acts may also physically damage National Grid Gass assets or otherwise significantly affect corporate activities and as a consequence have an adverse impact on the results of operations.
30 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 Future funding requirements of pension schemes Substantially all of National Grid Gass employees are members of a defined benefit pension scheme where the scheme assets are held independently of National Grid Gass own financial resources.
Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding for the scheme are based on various actuarial assumptions and other factors including, among other things, the actual and projected market performance of the scheme assets, future long-term bond yields, average life expectancies and relevant legal requirements.
The impact of these assumptions and other factors may result in a requirement for it to make additional contributions to the pension scheme.
National Grid Gass legal obligations to the scheme are limited to paying the employers contribution rate set by the trustees of the scheme.
However, circumstances may require that National Grid Gas makes additional contributions.
To the extent that any increases in contributions are not recoverable under National Grid Gass price controls, results of operations could be adversely affected.
Changes in accounting standards The accounting treatment under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, of replacement expenditure, pensions and derivative financial instruments significantly affect the way National Grid Gas reports its financial position and results of operations.
As a body of practice develops for IFRS, the application and interpretation of accounting principles to National Grid Gass circumstances, and to those areas in particular, could result in changes in the financial results and financial position that National Grid Gas reports.
In addition, new standards, rules or interpretations may be issued which could also have significant effects.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 31
