Corporate governance report Attendance at Board meetings and committees of the Board Compliance There were eight Board meetings held during the year.
In addition, Northern Foods is committed to the highest standards of the chairman held two separate meetings with the non-executive corporate governance.
The Board has overall responsibility for directors without the executive directors being present.
The corporate governance and is accountable to the Companys discussions held at these meetings covered Board related shareholders for good governance.
issues including Board structure and succession planning.
The non-executive directors also met once without the chairman The directors recognise the importance of this responsibility and present to appraise his performance.
The Board holds meetings can confirm that the Company has complied fully throughout the in London or Leeds and at least one meeting each year is held year with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined at one of the operational sites.
Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code and the associated Turnbull Guidance, as annexed to the Financial The table below shows the number of meetings of the Board, Services Authoritys Listing Rules other than in relation to Code audit, remuneration and nomination committees held during provision C. 3.1.
For part of the year Anthony Hobson, non-executive the year, and the number of meetings attended by each director.
chairman, was a member of the audit committee until his resignation The directors attended Board and committee meetings wherever from the committee in November 2007.
As chairman he is not possible unless personal circumstances prevented their considered to be independent by the Combined Code.
Following attendance, as shown below.
his resignation the Company now considers it is fully compliant.
Number of This report describes the Companys governance policies and meetings held 1 2 3 4 31 March 2007 to Board Audit Remuneration Nomination explains how the Company has applied the main and supporting 29 March 2008 83 7 1 principles of the Combined Code.
Number of meetings attended S Barden 8 8 n a n a n a Directors R J S Bell 8 8 n a 7 7 1 1 5 The Board A J Hobson 8 8 2 2 n a 1 1 The Board determines the strategic direction of the Company A K Illsley 8 8 3 3 7 7 1 1 and reviews its operating and financial position.
The Board J K Maiden 8 8 n a n a n a ensures that the necessary resources are in place in order for O G Ni-Chionna 7 8 2 3 7 7 1 1 the Company to meet its objectives.
It has a schedule of matters D T Nish 8 8 3 3 5 7 1 1 specifically reserved to it, which can be amended only by the Notes Board itself and which has been reviewed and updated during 1 A J Hobson is chairman of the Board the financial year under review.
2 D T Nish is chair of the audit committee 3 O G Ni-Chionna is chair of the remuneration committee 4 A J Hobson is chair of the nomination committee These matters include approval of the overall Group strategy 5 A J Hobson resigned as a member of the audit committee on and financial policy, membership of the Board and its committees, 7 November 2007 acquisitions and divestments, and major capital expenditure.
This schedule is available on the Companys website.
All other matters The chairman is not a member of the remuneration and audit relating to the management of the Company are delegated committees but attends by invitation.
Senior executives below to the Operating board within clearly defined limits of authority.
Board level are periodically invited to attend Board meetings The Board monitors the performance of management and aims to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
to ensure that the strategy, policies and procedures adopted are not only in the long term interest of shareholders but also meet Chairman and chief executive the needs of Northern Foods customers, employees, suppliers There is a clear, written division of responsibility between the and the local communities in which it operates.
The Operating chairman and the chief executive.
The chairman is responsible board is responsible to the Board for developing the strategy for leadership of the Board, setting the agenda and ensuring its and for the overall performance of the Group and for managing effectiveness.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the directors the Groups businesses as defined by the Board.
receive accurate, timely and clear information, and for effective communication with shareholders.
The chairmans other significant The Board, chaired by Anthony Hobson, has seven directors, commitments and any changes during the year are detailed in his comprising two executive directors and five non-executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that the commitments The executive directors are Stefan Barden, Chief Executive and of the chairman outside the Group are not such as to interfere with Jez Maiden, Chief Finance Officer.
Orna Ni-Chionna is the senior the performance of his duties.
The chief executive is responsible independent director.
The non-executive directors possess a for operating the business and implementing the Boards strategies range of skills and experience and bring independent judgement and is supported in these matters by the Operating board.
to bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources that are vital to the success of the Group.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the executive directors: to scrutinise, and challenge performance: and to satisfy themselves that the Group maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
36 Corporate governance report | Northern Foods plc Board balance and independence One week prior to each scheduled Board meeting, the chairman The Company complies with the requirement of the Combined Code and the company secretary ensure that the directors receive all that there should be a balance of executive and non-executives, relevant papers so that they are properly appraised of the Companys such that no one individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
current performance and information on any other matter which There is a succession plan, approved by the Board, to ensure is referred to the Board for consideration.
continual review of the balance of skills and experience.
There is a comprehensive induction process, tailored to the needs The Board uses criteria to assist in arriving at its decision that of the individual directors, which is arranged by the company the non-executive directors are independent.
This includes meetings with management and external a deep appreciation of the Groups business and activities so advisors so that the new director receives an appreciation of the that a thorough evaluation of information received can be made: activities of the Group, the key drivers of business performance objective decision making after debate: and the significant current issues.
Visits to operational sites are objective challenge of management: encouraged.
The training also covers the role of the Board and a clear and consistent approach demonstrating that he she its committees, corporate governance practices and procedures, has the good of the Group uppermost in his her behaviour and the duties, responsibilities and liabilities of a director of a when challenging others and defending his her viewpoints.
There have been no new appointments to the Board in this financial year.
Following the annual review of independence, the Board is of the opinion that all of the current non-executive directors are Additional training is arranged, by the company secretary, independent by these criteria and are free from any relationship on a group or individual basis as needs arise: for example, or circumstance which could affect, or appear to affect, their when a non-executive director is appointed to a Board committee.
David Nish is the Group Finance Director of Standard Life plc which owned 12.97% of the Companys shares During the year, in order to assist them in their duties, the directors as at 27 May 2008.
The Company does not consider that this received presentations on the developments in financial reporting affects his independence as his role at Standard Life does not since March 2007 and the Corporate Manslaughter and Homicide include direct responsibility for investment decisions.
Influence is balanced within the Board by virtue of a non-executive Board performance evaluation senior independent director and a further three non-executive The performance of the Board, the chairman and its principal directors whose skills and business experience are invaluable committees is evaluated annually.
As in previous years, this has in constructively challenging and developing the Groups strategy taken the form of obtaining completed detailed questionnaires and direction.
which have been extensively revised this year from all Board members, analysing the responses, and providing the opportunity Appointments to the Board for directors to comment on any issues not covered directly by Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board the questionnaire.
The results of the evaluation were considered on the recommendation of the nomination committee.
It was agreed that the results confirmed the a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment effectiveness of each directors contribution, each committee, of new directors which is made on merit and against objective and of the Board as a whole.
The criteria are set by the non-executive directors and include identifying any areas where skills are lacking and making Orna Ni-Chionna, Senior Independent Director, has analysed appointments to enhance the balance of skills and experience responses to a detailed questionnaire designed to evaluate of the Board.
the performance of the chairman.
The results of the survey were discussed with the executive and non-executive directors when The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive the chairman was not present.
The outcome of these discussions directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered confirmed that the performance of the chairman was effective office during normal business hours and at the Annual general and that he continues to provide strong leadership to the Board.
meeting for 15 minutes prior to, and during the meeting.
The chairman assesses the performance of the non-executive Information and professional development directors, after consultations with the executive directors and All directors have unlimited access to information regarding the senior independent director.
the Company, and to the advice and services of the company secretary, whose appointment and removal requires the approval Re-election of directors of the Board, and they may obtain external advice, as required, Under the Companys Articles of Association, all directors at the expense of the Company.
are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and then to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
Retiring directors may offer themselves for re-election.
Northern Foods plc | Corporate governance report 37 Corporate governance report continued The directors standing for re-election by shareholders at this years In line with the Turnbull Report, Internal Control: Guidance for Annual general meeting are Anthony Hobson, Orna Ni-Chionna and Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull, the directors regularly David Nish.
The Combined Code requires that any non-executive review the effectiveness of the Groups system of controls and director serving a term beyond six years should be subject to a risk management.
The directors believe that appropriate steps particularly rigorous review.
Anthony Hobson and Orna Ni-Chionna are being taken to embed internal control and risk management have both served two three year terms and, as required, were further into the operations of the business and to identify subject to a rigorous review of their performance, contribution opportunities for improvement which come to the attention of and effectiveness in the Board evaluation process.
A review of management and the Board.
The system is designed to provide the results of the Board evaluation took place in April 2008, where reasonable not absolute assurance of effective operations and it was concluded that both directors continued to make a valuable compliance with laws and regulations.
and effective contribution to Board decisions and that their performance continued to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
As part of its review process, the Board considers new and emerging risks and also considers key external business drivers The biographical details of all the directors put forward for such as market trends and competitive activity.
The Board also re-election are contained on page 32 of the Annual report and plays an important role in driving continuous improvement in the in the explanatory notes contained in the Notice of meeting.
management of risk by encouraging the sharing of best practice across the business.
Remuneration Remuneration is set out in the Directors remuneration report on A summary of the principal control structure and processes pages 42 to 53 and the work of the remuneration committee is in place across the Group is set out below.
set out on page 40 of this report.
Control structure and processes The Board assesses key areas of internal control and risk Accountability and audit management and sets policy accordingly.
It tasks each business Financial reporting to identify and document each significant risk and to implement The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable appropriate controls for that risk.
The Board also requires the assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
This businesses to manage, monitor and report on the effectiveness responsibility extends to annual and half year reports and other of these controls.
The Company is also required to present interim management statements covering the first and third quarter The businesses are supported by appropriate corporate trading during each six months trading, following implementation management resources which provide the technical skills and of the Transparency Directive in January 2007.
For the financial expertise needed to supplement the businesses own resource year 2007 08, the Company made two such interim management and to provide overall assurance for the major areas of risk.
statements in compliance with the regulations.
There are clearly defined lines of authority and accountability.
The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligations in presenting The internal auditors have reviewed the overall approach adopted a balanced and clear assessment of the Companys position by the Company towards its risk management activities.
This assessment is primarily provided in the Chairmans statement, the Chief executives report and the The audit committee oversees both internal and external audit Performance review contained in this report.
The Statement of procedures and monitors response to any significant control directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements issues raised.
Roles and responsibilities for each area of identified risk are Internal control and risk management outlined below: The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system Strategic delivery: through its regular meetings, the Board of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness which assesses performance against objectives.
In doing so, it covers all aspects of the business.
Key risks are identified in considers performance data and also considers external the Performance review on pages 8 to 25 and include strategic, dynamics, such as shifting customer and consumer trends, commercial, operational and financial risks.
These risks are that could affect the delivery of these objectives.
managed through a comprehensive internal control and risk management system as outlined below.
Health and safety: the Groups health and safety team sets strategy and risk management standards.
A detailed monthly Underlying this process is the Boards aim to safeguard review process facilitates performance measurement against shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
Governance is maintained through the coordination aims to ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, and delivery of an operationally focused audit which complies and that the financial information used within the business and with Health & Safety Executive guidance.
The group function for publication is accurate, reliable and fairly presents the financial also provides a centre of excellence to support each business position of the Company and results of its business operations.
and site in working to defined risk management standards.
38 Corporate governance report | Northern Foods plc Key improvement activities are defined and assistance The central finance function obtains advice and provides provided to aid the implementation of improvement activities.
adequate insurance cover for major losses with appropriate These activities include processes such as behavioural levels of deductibles, through a Group programme with safety programmes, safety training initiatives and site based external insurance brokers.
This cover is reviewed and improvement project support.
Networking is strongly supported negotiated annually.
through the operation of an annual best practice award scheme, annual safety conference and the safety function contact Financial and treasury management oversee the principal areas group activities.
of treasury risk including liquidity, interest and currency risk.
A dedicated risk management steering group identifies and Information technology: the Information Services function manages fire risk through site audits and the implementation provides appropriate systems infrastructure and back-up of recommendations and standards, together with sharing of services to the business.
Legal: provides and obtains advice on a full range of legal Talent management and human resources: centrally driven issues across the Group, and ensures good title to properties organisational capability reviews ensure that each of the and intangible assets.
businesses and functions regularly reviews its existing management capability and succession plans in the context Corporate social responsibility: the corporate social of the Companys strategic plans.
responsibility director ensures that there are effective systems in place for evaluating and managing social, environmental Food safety and quality: the technical services team and ethical SEE risks.
Further information is provided in assesses and approves raw material suppliers, audits the the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 26 to 31. quality management systems in the Group, provides guidance on compliance with food related and environmental legislation, Review process sets technical standards and offers expertise on food science An ongoing review process includes an assessment of internal and technology.
This expertise and governance is reflected controls, in particular, internal financial controls.
It also includes in the independent accreditation of the team as UKAS reports from the internal audit function as well as the external Certification Body No.
199 and UKAS Testing Laboratory No.
auditor on matters identified in the course of its statutory audit work.
The dual accreditation has again continued without interruption in 2007 08, a record that is unique to Northern Foods.
Businesses and specialist functions report by exception on any matters arising during the year to the monthly performance review Asset management and engineering: contractors for building, meetings.
The results of formal half yearly internal reviews are engineering and professional services are approved by the taken forward to the audit committee.
businesses engineering resource in conjunction with Group Procurement and Group Health and Safety.
The Board is therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Procurement: Group Procurement supports the businesses risks faced by the Group, that it has been in place for the year in identifying, contracting and managing strategic supply under review and up to the date of approval of these financial relationships.
It plays a key role in the Groups risk management statements, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board and that of external third party expenditure.
it accords with Turnbull guidance.
Audit committee and auditors Finance: each business prepares detailed annual budgets A principle of the Combined Code is that the Board should and strategic plans, which are reviewed and updated on establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering a regular basis.
Weekly and monthly accounts are prepared how it should apply the financial reporting and internal control for each business and performance is monitored against principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the original budget, and updated forecasts.
The Groups chief the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.
These responsibilities executive and chief finance officer meet on a formal basis are delegated to and are discharged by the audit committee each month to review the performance of each of the whose work is described on pages 40 to 41. businesses with its managing director and finance director.
During the year, capital expenditure planning, budgeting Relations with shareholders and approval of expenditure was performed by executive Dialogue with shareholders management, up to an agreed level delegated by the full Board.
The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good relationships with all shareholders, who are kept informed of The internal audit function reviews the standard of internal significant Company developments.
Presentations are made financial control and the accuracy of financial reporting of the half year and full year results, briefings are given to analysts, through a rolling cycle of audit visits under a programme and other meetings to discuss Company direction are held with of activity approved by the audit committee.
institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
Northern Foods plc | Corporate governance report 39 Corporate governance report continued The chief executive and chief finance officer are closely involved Nomination committee in investor relations and report the views of major shareholders A J Hobson Chair back to the Board.
Investor meetings are arranged through R J S Bell the Companys broker, UBS Investment Bank, and others.
A K Illsley The chairman, the senior independent director and other O G Ni-Chionna non-executive directors are available to meet major shareholders D T Nish whenever necessary, and the chairman did so during the year.
The committee meets as required to review the structure, All material information reported to the regulatory news services size and composition of the Board.
During 2007 08 the committee is simultaneously published on the Companys website affording met once to consider the terms of appointment of directors, all shareholders full access to Company announcements.
In succession planning and Board skill and balance.
Due to the addition, the Company has introduced an electronic communication changes in the composition of the Board which occurred in facility to allow shareholders to receive information more quickly the previous financial year, no further changes to the structure and in a manner more convenient for them.
The Company has of the Board were considered desirable or necessary.
also taken advantage of provisions under the Companies Act 2006 which allows the use of the website to communicate When the need for a new director is identified, the criteria with shareholders as an alternative to receiving hard copies.
in respect of the background and competencies of potential A resolution to this effect was passed at the Companys Annual candidates are approved by the Board before the search is general meeting in 2007.
It was implemented in November 2007 by started.
This specification is drawn up after consideration of shareholders being offered the choice of receiving communications the skills, knowledge and experience of existing Board members.
from the Company either via the website or by way of hard copy.
The committee also ensures that candidates have enough time available to devote to the position.
Search consultants have been Constructive use of the Annual general meeting used extensively in the identification of new Board appointments.
The Board regards the Annual general meeting, which will be held on Monday, 28 July 2008, as an opportunity to The committee also reviews annually the need for succession communicate directly with private investors.
Wherever possible, planning, particularly for the chairman, chief executive and other all directors attend the Annual general meeting.
Anthony Illsley key Board positions, and makes recommendations accordingly.
will not be attending this years meeting due to a previous engagement.
A presentation is made to shareholders at the Remuneration committee meeting to facilitate greater awareness of the Groups activities.
O G Ni-Chionna Chair Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are able to meet R J S Bell the directors informally.
Separate resolutions are proposed on A K Illsley each substantially separate issue and the number of proxy votes D T Nish cast for and against each resolution, as well as the number of votes withheld, are announced to the meeting following voting The remuneration committee, which is chaired by the senior on a show of hands.
A poll would be called on any resolution independent director, consists of the non-executive directors and where it was appropriate or required.
The Company offers an determines the broad policy and framework for the remuneration electronic voting facility to investors.
of executive directors and senior managers.
No director is permitted to be present when his her own remuneration is being discussed, Details of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, nor to vote on his her own remuneration.
The committee also are announced through the London Stock Exchange and are determines the nature and scale of incentive performance also placed on the Companys website.
arrangements that encourage enhanced performance and which reward individuals in a fair and responsible manner for their contribution to the success of the business.
In setting the Board committees remuneration policy for executive directors and senior managers, Each Board committee has written terms of reference which the committee also takes into account the reward policies for define the role and responsibilities of the committees and are managers generally.
The terms of reference of each committee are available from the company secretary or can be viewed An integral part of the role of the remuneration committee is to on the Companys website.
carry out an appraisal of the performance of the chief executive.
Appointments to the committees are made on the Audit committee recommendation of the nomination committee but subject to D T Nish Chair Board approval.
Membership of the committees is for periods A J Hobson Resigned 7 November 2007 of up to three years, normally extendable by no more than two A K Illsley additional three year periods.
The company secretary acts as O G Ni-Chionna secretary to the Board committees.
40 Corporate governance report | Northern Foods plc The audit committee comprises three non-executive directors: Internal controls and risk management each is considered to be independent as required by the The committee reviews reports from internal audit at three Combined Code.
A J Hobson resigned from the committee meetings during the year.
These reports consider the operation on 7 November 2007 in order to comply with the provisions of of, and issues arising from, the Groups internal control procedures, the Combined Code which state that all committee members together with observations from the external auditors.
The committee should be independent.
The chairman is not considered to monitored the effectiveness of the Groups risk management process, be independent under the Combined Code.
The chairman is, which considers the key risks, both financial and non-financial, however, invited to attend meetings of the committee.
facing the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of those risks.
The main duties of the committee, set out in its terms of reference, are to: Internal audit make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration It is the role of internal audit to advise management and the Board of external auditors and to monitor their performance: on the extent to which systems of internal control are effective approve and monitor the policy for non-audit services and to provide independent and objective assurance that the provided by the external auditors to ensure that the processes by which significant risks are identified, assessed and independence of the auditors is not compromised: managed are appropriate and effectively applied.
The internal audit review and advise the Board on the Companys financial plan, which covers the scope, authority and resources of the statements, its accounting policies and on the control and function, is determined through a structured process of risk mitigation of its financial and business risks: assessment and is approved by the audit committee.
The nature review the nature and scope of the work to be performed and scope of the work of the internal audit team was reviewed by the external and internal auditors, the results of their audit and approved, the reports of results received and the responses work and of the response of management: of management considered.
The plan set out at the beginning review and advise the Board on the effectiveness of the of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work was in Companys internal control environment, including its line with expectations.
To ensure the independence of the internal whistleblowing procedures.
audit function, the senior internal auditor has the right of direct access to the chair of the committee and to the chairman of D T Nish took over the chair of the committee on his appointment the Board: this right was not invoked in the year under review.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered External audit Accountants of Scotland and is Group Finance Director of The committee reviews auditor independence annually.
He is considered to have the recent and committee also monitors the cost effectiveness and objectivity relevant financial experience required for the provisions of the of the external auditors.
To assist in ensuring independence, the Combined Code.
The other members of the committee have role of the audit partner on the audit is rotated every five years.
a wide range of business experience, which is evidenced by The provision of non-audit services by the external auditors is their biographical summaries on page 32. considered in line with the committees terms of reference.
During the year, the auditors also provided tax advice, amongst other Meetings services.
Auditor objectivity and independence was safeguarded The committee invites executive directors, management, through the use of a separate tax audit partner.
In addition, the external and internal auditors to attend meetings as it considers auditors report annually on the actions taken to comply with appropriate for the matters being discussed.
professional and regulatory requirements and on current best Work of the committee practice required to ensure independence.
The audit committee During 2007 08, the audit committee met on three occasions reviewed the external auditors proposed plan in November 2007 and reported its conclusions to the Board.
It met privately with and their report of May 2008 and has considered the effectiveness the internal and external auditors without executives present.
It also met with executive management and executive directors.
Operating board The committee discharged its obligations in respect of 2007 08 During the year, in line with the simplification of the business, as follows: the Northern Foods Operating board was restructured.
It now comprises the chief executive, the chief finance officer and five Financial reporting managing directors with responsibility for the individual businesses.
During the year the committee reviewed the draft half year and annual financial statements prior to Board approval.
The committee Going concern received a report from the external auditors setting out the The directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention.
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
The auditors reports were based on a high level review Accordingly the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended Half year report and a full audit Annual report respectively.
29 March 2008 have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The committee has also advised the Board on accounting By order of the Board policies, disclosure and controls.
Carol Williams Company Secretary 27 May 2008 Northern Foods plc | Corporate governance report 41
