Northgate AR&A 2008 Front AW:x69614 Rhouse front p2 cg 23 7 08 16:31 Page 24 AUDIT COMMITTEE CORPORATE REPORT GOVERNANCE reviewed the Groups whistle blowing service: All Directors in office at that time were present at the Annual General ROLE UK LISTED COMPANIES ARE REQUIRED Meeting held in September 2007. reviewed its own effectiveness and terms of reference: The Audit Committee is appointed by, and reports to, the Board.
The BY THE FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY Committees terms of reference, which include all matters referred to reviewed papers on the Groups depreciation policy and recommended The external auditors attended three Audit Committee meetings.
THE DESIGNATED UK LISTING AUTHORITY in the Combined Code, are reviewed annually by the Committee and changes to the policy: are available on the Companys website.
In summary these include: TO INCLUDE A STATEMENT IN THEIR ANNUAL The internal audit manager attended three Audit Committee meetings.
received a report by Deloitte & Touche LLP on the Groups corporate ACCOUNTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH taxation arrangements: monitoring the integrity of financial reporting: Before appointment, non-executive Directors are required to assure the THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD CORPORATE monitored the progress of major IT projects in the UK and Spain, Board that they can give the time commitment necessary to properly fulfil reviewing the Groups internal controls and risk management systems: including commissioning external reports: and their duties, both in terms of availability to attend meetings and discuss GOVERNANCE AND CODE OF BEST monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: matters on the telephone and meeting preparation time.
reviewed a report on goodwill impairment.
PRACTICE SET OUT IN THE COMBINED making recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment The Companys Articles of Association provide that at each Annual General CODE THE CODE.
of the external auditors and approving their remuneration and terms EXTERNAL AUDITORS Meeting of the Company all Directors who held office at the time of the of engagement: The Boards policy on non-audit services provided by the external auditors, two preceding Annual General Meetings and did not retire by rotation shall The provisions of the Code applicable to listed companies are divided monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors developed and recommended by the Committee, is:- be subject to re-election.
In addition, any Director appointed by the Board into four parts, as set out below: and developing a policy for the provision of non-audit services by the during the year is obliged to seek re-election at the next following Annual external auditor: and tax advisory and other audit-related work including in particular Corporation General Meeting.
1 DIRECTORS monitoring the audit process and any issues arising therefrom Tax.
This is work that, in their capacity as auditors, they are best placed The business of the Company is managed by the Board of Directors, to carry out and will generally be asked to do so.
Nevertheless, where The Board has established a Nomination Committee, which is chaired by currently comprising four executive and four non-executive Directors, details appropriate, they will be asked for a fee quote.
All the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive are MEMBERSHIP of whom are shown on pages 12 and 13.
All the non-executive Directors members.
Its main function is to lead the process for Board appointments non-audit related and general consultancy work.
This type of work will The members of the Committee, who are all independent non-executive are considered to be independent both in the sense outlined in the Code by selecting and proposing to the Board suitable candidates of appropriate either be placed on the basis of the lowest fee quote or to consultants Directors of the Company, are: and in terms of the criteria laid down by the National Association of Pension calibre.
The Committee would normally expect to use the services of who are felt to be best able to provide the expertise and working Funds for judging the independence of non-executive Directors.
Following professional search consultants to help in the search for candidates.
Date of appointment Qualification relationship required.
In certain instances, such as the appointment of Mr Rogersons appointment as Chairman on a permanent basis on 5 June The Committee has written terms of reference which are available A J Allner Chairman 26 September 2007 FCA consultants to provide external advice and support to the internal audit 2007, Mr Brown was appointed Senior Independent Director.
The offices on the Companys website.
J Astrand 6 June 2001 MBA department, the auditors will not be invited to compete for the work.
of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
The division of T Brown 8 June 2005 MBA The Committee met formally on 4 occasions during the year and recommended their responsibilities has been set out in writing, approved by the Board During the year, the Committee reviewed and was satisfied as to the the appointment to the Board of Andrew Allner as a non-executive Director The Combined Code requires that at least one member of the Committee and is available on the Companys website.
effectiveness and independence of the external auditors, including in September 2007 and of Bob Contreras as Finance Director in June 2008. should have recent and relevant financial experience: currently, the Chairman conducting a one-to-one meeting with the audit partner.
The Board meets regularly to review trading results and has responsibility of the Committee fulfils this requirement.
All members of the Committee are During the year, the Chairman led an evaluation process of the performance for the major areas of Group strategy, the annual Business Plan, financial Consequently, the Committee has recommended to the Board the expected to be financially literate.
of individual Directors, of the Board as a whole and of its committees.
The reporting to and relationships with shareholders, dividend policy, internal reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP at the Annual General Meeting.
process consisted of a formal and detailed questionnaire completed by each financial and other controls, financing and treasury policy, insurance policy, MEETINGS Fees paid and payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP in respect of the year Director, one-to-one meetings with the Chairman and a Board discussion.
In major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, Board structure, The Committee is required to meet at least three times a year.
Details under review are as shown in Note 6 on page 42. addition the non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, remuneration policy, corporate governance and compliance.
of attendance at meetings held in the year ended 30 April 2008 are have reviewed the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the given on page 23.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed to enable views of the executive Directors.
INTERNAL AUDIT them to discharge their duties.
In particular, detailed management accounts In fulfilling its duty to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function, Due to the cyclical nature of its agenda, which is linked to events in the are prepared and copies sent to all Board members every month and, in 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION the Committee has: Groups financial calendar, the Committee will generally meet four times advance of each Board meeting, appropriate documentation on all items The Companys policy on remuneration and details of the remuneration a year.
The other Directors, together with the head of internal audit and to be discussed is circulated.
reviewed the adequacy of the resources of the internal audit department of each Director are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 16 to 21. the external auditors, are normally invited to attend all meetings.
for both the UK and Spain: Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year ensured that the head of internal audit has direct access to the is detailed below.
3 ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT ACTIVITY Chairman of the Board and to all members of the Committee: An assessment of the Companys position and prospects is included in Since May 2007, the Committee has: BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION conducted a one-to-one meeting with the head of internal audit: the Chairmans Statement and in the Operational and Financial Reviews reviewed the financial statements for the years ended 30 April 2007 on pages 6 to 10. approved the internal audit programme: and No of Meetings 73 5 and 2008, the half yearly report issued in December 2007 and Interim Management Statements issued in September 2007 and March 2008. reviewed half-yearly reports by the head of internal audit.
P Rogerson 71 5 INTERNAL CONTROL As part of this review process, the Committee received reports from S J Smith 7 Provision C2.1 of the Code requires the Directors to conduct an annual The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the Annual General Deloitte & Touche LLP on each occasion: A J Allner 52 3 review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken J Astrand 73 5 Turnbull guidance provides relevant guidance for directors on compliance Andrew Allner by Deloitte & Touche LLP and agreed their fees: T Brown 73 5 with the internal control provisions of the Code.
Chairman of the Audit Committee P J Moorhouse 7 monitored the Groups risk management process: 30 June 2008 G T Murray 4 reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls: A T Noble 7 22 23 NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT&ACCOUNTS2008
