PayPoint plc GOVERNANCE Corporate governance The directors recognise the importance of sound corporate governance, whilst taking into account the size and nature of the company.
The company has fully complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code for the 53 weeks ended 30 March 2008.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance in the Combined Code are applied by the company.
The board The board comprises eight directors: David Newlands, the non-executive Chairman, three executive directors, Dominic Taylor, George Earle and Tim Watkin-Rees and four non-executive directors, Kenneth Minton, David Morrison, Andrew Robb and Roger Wood.
Kenneth Minton is the Senior Independent Nonexecutive Director.
The board considers that the non-executive directors David Newlands, Andrew Robb, Kenneth Minton and Roger Wood are independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Given the size of the company and its ownership structure the board has concluded that the proportion of independent non-executive directors is appropriate.
All the non-executive directors bring considerable knowledge and experience to board deliberations.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any of the companys share schemes or bonus schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
Biographical details of each of the directors are set out on pages 17 and 18.
Procedures exist to allow the directors to seek independent professional advice in respect of their duties at the companys expense where the circumstances are appropriate.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary for advice and are subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors and the executive directors service contracts are available for inspection at the companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available at the annual general meeting.
The Chairman, David Newlands, chairs all board meetings and regularly consults with the executive directors regarding ongoing business.
His other significant commitments are disclosed in his biography on page 17.
The board considers that these commitments do not hinder his ability to discharge his responsibilities to the company and its subsidiaries the group effectively.
The directors believe it is essential for the company to be led and controlled by an effective board which monitors progress through monthly reports and management accounts.
The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
The most significant of these are the approval of:  corporate strategy of the group and the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets:  the appointment of the Chief Executive Officer, other directors and the Company Secretary:  major capital investments:  annual and half yearly accounts:  interim management statements: and  acquisitions and disposals.
Following the appointment of new directors, a full, formal and tailored induction programme is arranged.
14 The board met 8 times during the year and all members were in attendance.
Where a director is unable to attend he provides input through discussion with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
A formal performance evaluation of the board, its committees and individual directors took place during the year.
The results of the board performance evaluation process have been analysed.
The evaluation confirmed that the board was satisfied with the boards overall performance and there were no material changes recommended for improvement.
The various committees carried out self-assessments to assess whether their terms of reference had been satisfactorily fulfilled and how their processes could be improved.
The non-executive and executive directors performance was reviewed by the Chairman and Chief Executive respectively, taking into account the views of other directors.
The performance of the Chairman was reviewed by the nonexecutive directors led by Kenneth Minton, the Senior Independent Director, also taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Directors and officers liability insurance is maintained to provide cover should a legal action against the companys directors occur.
Committees of the board The following formally constituted committees deal with specific aspects of the groups affairs in accordance with the duties and responsibilities formally delegated to them by the board.
The terms of reference for each of the committees are available on the companys website at www.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Andrew Robb, Kenneth Minton and Roger Wood.
It met 4 times during the year.
All meetings except one were chaired by Andrew Robb who the board considers to have recent and relevant financial experience.
All members were in attendance with the exception of Andrew Robb who was unable to attend one of the meetings.
The Audit Committee is primarily responsible for monitoring that the financial performance of the group is properly measured and reported and appropriate financial control systems and procedures are in place.
During the year, it: reviewed reports from the auditors relating to the groups accounting and internal controls: advised the board on the appointment, performance, independence and objectivity of the auditors and the internal auditor: reviewed the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control including fraud prevention: reviewed the appropriateness of the internal audit programme and the reports of the internal auditors.
The committee considered the level of non-audit fees for services provided by the auditors in order to satisfy itself that the auditors independence is safeguarded.
The group has a policy which prohibits the auditors providing certain services which might impair their independence.
Proposals to use the auditors for non-audit services are approved by the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Audit Committee regularly meets the external auditors without the executive directors being present and procedures are in place which allows access at any time of both external and internal auditors to the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the committee reports the outcome of each meeting to the board which is provided with the minutes of all meetings.
Remuneration Committee The role, composition and activities of the Remuneration Committee and details of how the company applies the principles of the Combined Code in respect of directors remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 23 to 31.
15 PayPoint plc Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Andrew Robb, Kenneth Minton, Roger Wood and David Newlands who is its Chairman.
It met once during the year and all members were in attendance.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for considering and making recommendations on the appointment of additional directors, the retirement of existing directors and for reviewing the size, structure and composition of the board and membership of board committees.
There have been no changes to the composition of the board during the year.
Risk management and internal control The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the groups system of internal control which has been designed to meet the particular needs of the group and its risks.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
All procedures necessary to comply with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code have been in place throughout the year and the directors have conducted a formal review of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control during the year.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during the review: however had there been, the board confirms that necessary actions would have been taken to remedy them.
The operational management of the group is delegated to senior managers who are appointed by the Chief Executive.
The responsibilities of the senior management group include the regular review of the main business risks to the group.
The group has prepared a detailed risk register which includes analysis of all the main operational risks identified by the senior management group covering all parts of the groups business activities.
The senior management group evaluates and prioritises the identified key operational risks.
In order to ensure that this process is managed effectively, members of the senior management group are asked to confirm in writing on each risk area that the potential threats in each area have been properly identified and recorded and the appropriate action taken.
This process has been fully embedded into the operations of the business.
The Audit Committee has received regular updates on the ongoing risk management, control systems and processes which are discussed at their meetings.
KPMG are the internal auditors and have conducted a rigorous three year internal audit programme covering all the groups key business areas which took place between 2005 and the end of the current year.
Key risk areas were covered each year, with the balance of the programme completed over the three years.
A new three year programme for 2008 to 2010 has been approved by the Audit Committee.
In addition independent internal audits are conducted for assessment of compliance against ISO IEC 27001:2005 information security management, which takes place twice annually and by LINK auditors, on an annual basis, which assesses control over LINK related ATM systems and audits by our clients from time to time.
Shareholder relations The directors consider that the annual report and accounts play an important role in providing shareholders with an evaluation of the companys position and prospects.
The board aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance to all shareholders.
The board acknowledges the importance of an open dialogue with its institutional shareholders and welcomes the interest of private investors.
It believes that in addition to the annual report and the companys website, the annual general meeting is an ideal forum at which to communicate with investors and the board encourages their participation.
The Senior Independent Director is available to address unresolved shareholder concerns.
