38 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Board of directors Chairman He was appointed chairman of The Penguin Group in May 2001.
He is also chairman of the Institute of Public Glen Moreno, chairman, aged 65, was appointed Policy Research and a director of The National Theatre chairman of Pearson on 1 October 2005.
He is the senior and The International Rescue Committee UK.
independent director of Man Group plc and a director of Fidelity International Limited.
He was recently made Non-executive directors acting chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited, the company set up by HM Treasury to manage the David Arculus, aged 62, is a non-executive director of governments shareholdings in UK banks.
Telefnica SA and was chairman of O2 plc from 2004 until it was acquired by Telefnica at the beginning of Executive directors 2006.
His previous roles include chairman of Severn Trent plc and IPC Group, chief operating officer of United Marjorie Scardino, chief executive, aged 62, joined Business Media plc and group managing director of the Pearson board in January 1997.
He became a non-executive director of practised as a lawyer, and was chief executive of Pearson in February 2006.
The Economist Group from 1993 until joining Pearson.
She is also vice chairman of Nokia Corporation and a Terry Burns, aged 64, is chairman of Abbey National director of several charitable organisations.
plc, Alliance & Leicester plc and of Glas Cymru Limited and is a non-executive director of Banco Santander SA.
David Bell, director for people, aged 62, became a He was previously chairman of Marks and Spencer Group director of Pearson in March 1996.
He was the UK governments chief economic adviser appointed Pearsons director for people with from 1980 until 1991 and Permanent Secretary of HM responsibility for finding, keeping, rewarding and Treasury from 1991 until 1998.
He was appointed a noninspiring our employees.
He is chairman of the Financial executive director of Pearson in May 1999 and senior Times and Sadlers Wells Theatre.
He is also chairman of independent director in February 2004.
Crisis, a charity for the homeless, Roehampton University, The Institute for War and Peace Reporting Patrick Cescau, aged 60, was previously group chief and the London Transport Museum.
He is a non-executive director of Tesco plc and became a non-executive director of Will Ethridge, chief executive, Pearson Education North Pearson in April 2002.
America, aged 57, joined the Pearson board in May 2008, having held a number of senior positions within Susan Fuhrman, aged 64, is president of Teachers Pearson Education.
He is chairman of CourseSmart, a College at Columbia University, Americas oldest and publishers consortium, vice chairman of the Association largest graduate school of education.
She was previously of American Publishers and a director of Interactive Data.
dean of the Graduate School of Education at the University of Pennsylvania.
She is a member of the Board Rona Fairhead, chairman and chief executive of The of Trustees of the Carnegie Foundation for the Financial Times Group, aged 47, joined the Pearson Advancement of Teaching and an officer of the National board in June 2002 as chief financial officer.
She was Academy of Education.
She became a non-executive appointed chief executive of The Financial Times Group director of Pearson in July 2004. in June 2006 and became responsible for Pearson VUE in March 2008.
From 1996 until 2001, she worked at ICI, Ken Hydon, aged 64, is a non-executive director of where she served as executive vice president, group Tesco plc, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Royal Berks control and strategy.
She is also chairman of Interactive NHS Foundation Trust.
He was previously financial Data, a non-executive director of HSBC Holdings plc and director of Vodafone Group plc and subsidiaries of Racal chairs the HSBC audit committee.
He became a non-executive director of Pearson in February 2006.
Robin Freestone, chief financial officer, aged 50, joined Pearson in 2004 as deputy chief financial officer and CK Prahalad, aged 67, is a distinguished university became chief financial officer in June 2006, when he also professor of corporate strategy and international joined the Pearson board.
He was previously group business at The University of Michigan Business School.
financial controller of Amersham plc now part of GE.
He He is a director of NCR, Hindustan Unilever Corporation, qualified as a chartered accountant with Touche Ross World Resources Institute and The Indus Entrepreneurs.
He is also a non-executive director and He became a non-executive director of Pearson in founder shareholder in eChem Limited.
John Makinson, chairman and chief executive of The A member of the audit committee.
A member of the personnel committee.
Penguin Group, aged 54, joined the Pearson board in A member of the nomination committee.
March 1996 and was finance director until June 2002.
