Directorsreport | Businessreview   RELATIONSHIPS Landfill and many otherfacilities require waste management licencesor environmental andPPCpermits, issuedandmonitored bythe EMPLOYEES EA andSEPA.
Viridor maintainsa positive  working relationshipwith the regulators, andsupervisory, administrative, clerical, .
A good neighbour policyis implementedat all  facilities managed by Viridorwithlocal liaison .
Trainingand groups at most major sites consistingof locally .
Communities Fund, a schemewherebya Viridors reportable accident rate per 1,000 employees is an important KPI and is set out below for proportionof LandfillTax canbe claimedas the five year period 2003 to 2007.
The company was disappointed to note that the rate rose to credits anddistributedto qualifyingcommunity 21.42 in 2007 compared with 18.18 in 2006.
This increase in reportable accidents was due primarily .
Duringthe year to an increase in manual handling type injuries and is attributable to the change in business mix as Viridor provided9.2 millionto ViridorCredits more labour intensive recycling businesses are acquired or developed.
All other accident types have EnvironmentalCompany, an independent fallen slightly.
Despite continuing to compare favourably with industry averages, Viridors focus on distributive environmentalbody.
Fundingis health and safety improvement and performance remains strong and it has re-doubled its efforts to allocated at grassrootslevelby steeringgroups reduce manual handling type accidents.
The company has recruited additional health and safety established to serveareas closeto operational professionals during the year and continues to raise the level of training and support available landfill sites.
 ARRANGEMENTS 27.5  RIDDOR accident and incident rates 25.0 %ofthecompanys 22.5 revenue.
The  and  efficientdisposal : fromits engineering  recycling and recoveryoperations:the capture of methane a greenhousegas 21 times as potent depreciation,  as CO :thegenerationof renewable energy:and therestorationof  2 seebelow, leachatemanagement, landfillgas   materials.
 associatedemissions, methane production wherenotharnessed  for ,   dust, noise,  litter andodour.
 be set and  met  , resulting in currentlyassumed.
Nevertheless, , The amountofwaste  year to 1.4milliontonnes  1.2 million tonnesin2006 07. .
24 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts Incident rate per 1,000 employees 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
