 statements: acquisitions and disposals: affairs with the Non-executive Directors COMPLIANCE having a particular responsibility for major items of capital expenditure: authority levels for other expenditure: risk ensuring that strategies proposed for The Board is committed to the highest management: and approval of the Strategic the development of the business are standards of corporate governance Plan and annual operating budgets.
The Non-executive with the aim of continuing to enhance Directors also critically examine the The Board operates by receiving written its effectiveness.
The Annual Report is operational and financial performance reports circulated in advance of its the principal means of reporting to shareof the Group and fulfil a key role in meetings from the Executive Directors and holders on the Boards governance policies.
corporate accountability through their the Group General Counsel & Company This section sets out how the main and membership of the Committees of Secretary on matters within their supporting principles of good corporate respective business areas in the Group.
In addition the Chairman governance contained in Section 1 of the Under the guidance of the Chairman, all during the year holds meetings with the Combined Code June 2006 version have matters before the Board are discussed Non-executive Directors without the been applied by the Company in practice.
openly and presentations and advice Executive Directors present, to discuss The Company considers that it has are received on occasions from other performance and strategic issues.
complied with the provisions of the Code senior executives within the Group or Group policies allocate the tasks of giving throughout the year.
detailed consideration to specified Directors have access to the advice and matters, to monitoring executive actions THEBOARDANDITS services of the Group General Counsel & and to assessing reward, to the Board COMMITTEES Committees as set out below: Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby Directors, AUDITCOMMITTEE The Board of Directors at the end of in order to fulfil their duties, may seek the year comprised the Chairman, independent professional advice at the The Audit Committee was chaired by Gerard three Executive Directors and three Companys expense.
The training needs of Connell, who has current and relevant Non-executive Directors.
All of the Directors are reviewed on a regular basis.
financial experience, and the other Non-executive Directors are considered members of the Committee were Kate The Board has an internal procedure to to be independent as none of the Mortimer and Dinah Nichols.
During the evaluate the performance of the whole relationships or circumstances set out in year the Committee met on five occasions Board, each Committee, the Chairman, paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Code and all members were present at each each individual Director and the Group apply to these Non-executive Directors.
meeting, with the exception of Kate General Counsel & Company Secretary.
They are also considered to have the Mortimer on one occasion.
In discharging This evaluation procedure was administered appropriate skills, experience in their its Terms of Reference the Committee for the year by the Group General Counsel & respective disciplines and personality to receives reports and meets regularly Company Secretary seeking all participants bring independent and objective in particular to: views on a range of prescribed questions judgement to the Board's deliberations.
designed to ensure objective evaluation of Gerard Connell is the Senior independent monitor the integrity of the financial performance.
The participants responses Non-executive Director.
The biographies on statements of the Group, including a were then summarised and evaluated by page 46 demonstrate a broad range of , the Group General Counsel & Company business and financial experience.
There is prior to approval by the Board: Secretary for the Board to consider a clear division of responsibilities between keep under review the effectiveness of and determine whether any changes the roles of Chairman and the Chief the Groups internal controls, including were necessary for the Board to be Executives of South West Water and Viridor all material financial, operational and more effective.
Overall performance was as recorded in the descriptions of the roles compliance controls and risk considered to be satisfactory but a number approved by the Board.
All Directors are management systems: of minor issues were identified where subject to re-election when they have held monitor and review the effectiveness of changes could be made to improve office for three years.
the Groups internal audit function and performance including, for example, approve the annual internal audit plan: During the year the Board met in a review of the terms of reference of certain review the findings of the internal accordance with its schedule of meetings committees to ensure that delegations audit function and review and monitor on eleven occasions.
At each meeting, all from the Board were appropriate and that managements responsiveness to such Directors were present with the exception the Board had sufficient time to attend to findings: of Gerard Connell on two occasions, David strategic matters.
The Chairmans oversee the relationship with the Dupont and Kate Mortimer each on one performance was evaluated separately by external auditors including their occasion.
In accordance with Group the Non-executive Directors, led by the remuneration, appointment, policies the Board has a schedule of Senior Independent Non-executive re-appointment and removal and in matters reserved for its decision and Director.
The Chairmans other significant addition monitor their independence delegates more detailed consideration of commitments outside the Group have not and objectivity including the supply of certain matters to Board Committees: to changed during the year and the Board is non-audit services: and the subsidiary boards of South West Water satisfied that such commitments do not receive internal control reports from the and Viridor: to the Executive Directors: and prejudice the Chairmans performance in external auditors and meet with them in to the Group General Counsel & Company relation to his Group role.
the absence of management at least Secretary, as appropriate.
Recognising this policy, the matters reserved to the Board All Directors are equally accountable for once a year to discuss their remit and include the approval of financial the proper stewardship of the Groups any issues arising from the audit.
54 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts  In addition the Committee periodically policy, remuneration and terms of Responsibility Report.
The 2008 Report reviews the arrangements for, and engagement of the Chairman and the will be on the Companys website at the effectiveness of the Groups remuneration and terms of employment www.
co. uk from 4 July 2008. whistleblowing policies details of of the Executive Directors and senior  which are set out on page 36 of the management of the Group.
Members of The Terms of Reference of the Audit, business review.
the Remuneration Committee do not Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate participate in decisions concerning their The Committee pays particular attention to Responsibility Committees are available own remuneration.
The Directors report on the independence and objectivity of the upon request to the Company Secretary remuneration, which also provides more auditors and has established a policy for and are also set out on the Companys information on the activities of the the engagement of the auditors for nonwebsite at www.
co. uk Remuneration Committee, appears on audit work by the Group.
This involves the pages 47 to 53.
Group Director of Finance setting out in INTERNALCONTROL a report to the Committee reasons for NOMINATIONCOMMITTEE appointing the auditors for any material The Nomination Committee was work and obtaining the approval of the  chaired by Ken Harvey and also Committee to such appointment which the CONTROL comprised Kate Mortimer, Dinah Nichols Committee will only grant if it is satisfied and Gerard Connell.
It meets as and when The Board is responsible for the Groups that the auditors independence and required to select and recommend to the system of internal control and for objectivity are safeguarded.
This is Board suitable candidates for appointment reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is achieved by reviewing the appointment as Executive and Non-executive Directors, designed to manage rather than eliminate with the auditors as considered determine the nomination process the risk of failure to achieve business appropriate and receiving from the and review succession plans.
During the objectives and can only provide reasonable auditors at the year end a letter setting year it met on two occasions, at which all and not absolute assurance against out how the auditors believe their members were present, to consider the material misstatement or loss.
There is an independence and objectivity have been annual performance evaluation results for ongoing process for identifying, evaluating maintained.
In addition the Companys the Committee and to review succession and managing the significant risks faced current auditors ensure that the senior planning for the Group.
by the Group that has been in place partner responsible for the external audit throughout the year 2007 08 and up to the  of the Group remains responsible for such date of the approval of this Annual Report COMMITTEE audit for no more than five years and that and Accounts.
The Board confirms that it there is an independent partner who is The Corporate Responsibility Committee continues to apply procedures in involved in planning and in the reviewing was chaired by Dinah Nichols and also accordance with the Combined Code and of the final accounts of the Company and comprised Gerard Connell, Kate Mortimer the Guidance on Internal Control also any critical matters which may be and the Chief Executives of South West The Turnbull Guidance which suggests identified in the audit.
Details of audit Water and Viridor.
It met on six occasions means of applying the internal control part and non-audit fees are contained in during the year at which all members were of the Code.
As part of these procedures note 6 to the financial statements on present, except for Gerard Connell on the Board has a formalised risk page 76. one occasion.
The Committees duties, management policy which provides for the in the context of the requirement for The Executive Directors, subsidiary identification of key risks in relation to the companies to conduct their business in a finance directors, the auditors, the Group achievement of the business objectives of responsible manner including in relation Financial Controller and the Companys the Group.
This policy is applied by all to environmental, social and governance internal auditor attend meetings of the business units within the Group in ESG matters, are to review the Committee by invitation.
In addition both accordance with an annual timetable.
strategies, policies, management, the external and internal auditors have the initiatives, targets and performance of the RISKIDENTIFICATION right of direct access to the Committee Pennon Group of companies in the areas of A full risk and control assessment is without the presence of any Executive occupational health and safety and undertaken annually by the management Director or other senior management.
security, environment, workplace policies, of each business to identify financial and  corporate policies, non-financial non-financial risks and is continuously regulatory compliance and the role of the The Remuneration Committee was chaired updated.
Each business compiles as part Group in society.
Ken Harvey from 1 June of its regular management reports an 2007, Gerard Connell and Dinah Nichols In reporting on corporate responsibility, enhanced and focused assessment were the other members of the Committee.
the Company has sought to comply with of key risks against corporate objectives.
The Committee met on seven occasions the Association of British Insurers The Board at each meeting receives from during the year at which all members were Guidelines on Responsible Investment Executive Directors details of any new present with the exception of Kate Disclosure.
The business review on pages high-level risks identified and how they are Mortimer and Gerard Connell each on one 36 to 41 contains details of ESG matters to be managed, together with details of occasion.
The Committee is responsible for and additional information is contained any changes to existing risks and their determining the Groups remuneration in the Groups annual Corporate management.
The subsidiary Boards 55 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 55  RISKIDENTIFICATION continued financial year and also the business review make judgements and estimates which for the Annual Report.
The Group General are reasonable and prudent of South West Water and Viridor also Counsel & Company Secretary initially receive at each meeting similar reports in state that the financial statements carries out the evaluation with Directors respect of their own areas of responsibility.
comply with IFRS as adopted by and senior management for consideration All senior managers are required to certify the European Union.
by the Audit Committee and subsequently on an annual basis that they have for final evaluation by the Board.
The Directors confirm that they have established effective controls to manage complied with the above requirements risks and to operate in compliance with In addition the Audit Committee regularly in preparing the financial statements.
All of reviews the operation and effectiveness of The Directors are responsible for keeping these processes serve to ensure that a the internal control framework and also proper accounting records that disclose culture of effective control and risk annually reviews the scope of work, with reasonable accuracy at any time the authority and resources of the Companys management is embedded within the financial position of the Group and the organisation and that the Group is in a internal audit function and reports to the Company and to enable them to ensure position to react appropriately to new risks Board on such reviews.
For 2007 08 and up that the financial statements and the as they arise.
Details of key risks affecting to the date of the approval of the Annual Directors remuneration report comply with the Group are set out in the business Report and Accounts, both the Audit the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards review on pages 14, 24 to 27 and 35.
Committee and the Board were satisfied the Group financial statements, article 4 with the effectiveness of the risk  of the International Accounting Standards management policy and the internal IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible As well as the risk management policy of control framework and their operation for safeguarding the assets of the Group the Group there is an established internal within the Group.
and the Company and hence for taking control framework which comprises: reasonable steps for the prevention and a a clearly defined structure which GOINGCONCERN detection of fraud and other irregularities.
delegates an appropriate level of authority, responsibility and The Directors consider, after making RELATIONSWITH accountability, including responsibility appropriate enquiries, that the Company SHAREHOLDERS for internal financial control, to and the Group have adequate resources to management of operating units: continue in operational existence for the The Company maintains a regular dialogue foreseeable future.
For this reason they b a comprehensive budgeting and with its institutional shareholders and has continue to adopt the going concern basis reporting function with an annual a comprehensive investor relations in preparing the financial statements.
budget approved by the Board of programme.
During the year, meetings Directors, which also monitors monthly with institutional shareholders were held DIRECTORS achieved results and updated forecasts and attended by the Group Director of RESPONSIBILITIES for the year against budget: Finance and the Companys Investor STATEMENT Relations Manager.
On certain occasions c documented financial control the Chairman, the Chief Executive of South procedures.
Managers of operating The Directors are responsible for preparing West Water and the Chief Executive of units are required to confirm annually the Annual Report, the Directors Viridor also attended.
The Board that they have adequate financial remuneration report and the financial encourages the participation of controls in operation and to report statements in accordance with applicable shareholders at the Annual General all material areas of financial risk.
Meeting and complies with the provisions Compliance with procedures is Company law requires the Directors to of the Combined Code in respect of reviewed and tested by the Companys relations with shareholders.
In particular, prepare financial statements for each internal audit function: and Non-executive Directors are invited to financial year.
Under that law the Directors d an investment appraisal process for have prepared the Group and Company attend meetings with institutional evaluating proposals for all major shareholders and analysts and brokers financial statements in accordance with capital expenditure and acquisitions, briefings.
The Group Director of Finance International Financial Reporting with defined levels of approval and a Standards IFRS as adopted by the reports to the Board regularly on major system for monitoring the progress of European Union.
The financial statements shareholders views about the Company.
Further, surveys of shareholder opinion are required by law to give a true and fair conducted, usually on an annual basis, are view of the state of affairs of the Group and  the Company and of their profits and cash evaluated and reported on to the Board.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of flows for the year.
overall internal control compliance by the By Order of the Board In preparing these financial statements the Group is undertaken in respect of each KEN WOODIER, Group General Counsel Directors are required to: calendar year and subsequently regulated & Company Secretary to the date of the report to assist the 26 June 2008 select suitable accounting policies and Audit Committee in considering the Group then apply them consistently internal audit plan for the forthcoming 56 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts
