Governance 61 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report The Company is incorporated in Jersey, where there is no formal Attendance by the Directors at the scheduled meetings of the Code relating to corporate governance.
However, the Board Board was as follows: recognises that it has a responsibility to ensure good governance of the Company in order to help it fulfil its obligations to all its Number of meetings 6 stakeholders, not just shareholders.
It is therefore strongly Rodney Chase committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and Non-executive Chairman 6 has decided to adhere, wherever possible, to the provisions of Michael Press The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2006 Senior Independent Director 6 the Combined Code, in the same way as if the Company was Bernard fide Combret incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The Company has prepared Non-executive Director 6 an additional report on its Corporate Social Responsibility pages Kjell Almskog 48 to 55, which sets out its engagement with society in general.
Non-executive Director 6 This Report, however, together with the Nominations Committee Report, Audit Committee Report and Remuneration Committee Rijnhard van Tets Report, is the Companys formal report on its corporate governance Non-executive Director 5 framework and has been prepared by reference to the Combined Ayman Asfari Code.
The Directors consider that throughout 2008 and up to the Group Chief Executive 6 date hereof, the Company has fully complied with the provisions of Maroun Semaan the Combined Code.
Group Chief Operating Officer formerly Chief Executive, Engineering & Construction 6 The Combined Code has identified four subject areas, which Keith Roberts underpin good corporate governance and these are: Chief Financial Officer 6 directors Amjad Bseisu directors remuneration Chief Executive, Energy Developments 6 accountability and audit relations with shareholders 1 R ijnhard van Tets missed one meeting due to a long standing prior commitment arranged before his appointment to the Board in 2007.
Directors Chairman and Group Chief Executive The Board The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are clearly The Board is responsible to shareholders for the control and separated and set out in writing.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the group and for safeguarding the Companys the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting reputation.
The Board currently has nine members and details of its agenda and for ensuring that there is effective communication the individuals skills and experience are contained in the Directors with all shareholders.
The Chairman also facilitates the effective biographies on page 57. contribution of all Directors and ensures that there is a constructive relationship between the executive and Non-executive Directors.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to itself for The role of the Group Chief Executive is to implement strategy by decision, including, but not limited to: matters of a strategic nature: developing manageable goals and priorities: provide leadership approval of the annual budget: approval of major acquisitions, and motivation to the management teams running the groups investments and disposals: major changes to the groups capital businesses: and develop proposals for the Board to consider in all structure: the preparation of financial statements: the areas reserved for its judgement.
recommendation or declaration of dividends: the entry into contracts which are deemed to be material strategically or by Board balance and independence reason of size: succession planning and appointments to the The Board believes that it is of sufficient size to contain an Board: senior executive remuneration: ensuring the maintenance appropriate balance of skills and experience but not so large as to of a sound system of internal controls: reviewing its own and its be unwieldy.
The Board considers all four Non-executive Directors committees performance and reviewing the groups overall which expression excludes the Chairman to be independent in corporate governance arrangements.
character and judgement and is not aware of any relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect The Board met regularly during the year.
The Board met in person the judgement of any of them.
The extensive knowledge and at six meetings, which had been scheduled well in advance.
experience of the Non-executive Directors combined with the focus In 2008, the Board held three such meetings in Continental Europe: and experience of the Chairman and executive Directors enable the one meeting in Sharjah, the United Arab Emirates, where the group Board to lead and give direction to the group without any has its largest office: one meeting in Jersey where the Company is imbalance that may allow any individual or group of individuals to incorporated: and one meeting in Tunisia where the group has dominate its decision making.
Any Director having a concern in this significant business operations.
In addition, the Board held a or any other regard may raise it with the Chairman or the Senior number of telephone conference Board meetings at relatively Independent Director.
Directors have access to the advice and short notice, which arose as a result of specific business, usually services of the Secretary to the Board, who is responsible for in relation to a particular commercial project, between scheduled ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and Board meetings.
The agenda for each scheduled Board meeting regulations are observed and for advising the Board, through the allows the Chairman and Non-executive Directors to meet Chairman, on governance matters.
The Directors are entitled to without the executive Directors present.
In addition, the Board take independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, attended a strategy and business planning day with members if required.
62 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance report continued The Board is assisted by various committees, principally the Performance evaluation Nominations, Audit, and Remuneration Committees.
Reports for Having used an external facilitator to help evaluate the Board, its 2008 from each of these committees are provided from pages Committees and Directors in 2006, the Board decided that it would 64 to 74.
The Board keeps the membership of the committees undertake internal reviews in 2007 and 2008.
During the year, the under review.
Chairman and Secretary to the Board periodically followed up on action points identified during the 2007 evaluation process.
Most Appointments to the Board action points were discharged during the year but a small number The Nominations Committee ensures a formal, rigorous and remained either partially or wholly unresolved at the year end.
transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
In the In the last quarter of 2008, each Director completed an extensive case of candidates for Non-executive Directorships, care is taken questionnaire prepared by reference to the Combined Code and to ascertain whether they will have sufficient time to fulfil their the Secretary to the Board collated the results.
The Chairman Board, and if applicable, committee responsibilities.
As part of this subsequently led a formal discussion of all Directors as a process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on consequence of which a list of actions, including those that appointment, undertake to inform the Chairman of any proposed remained undischarged from 2007, were agreed for the changes.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive forthcoming year.
The Chairman will review the Board evaluation Directors are available from the Secretary to the Board on request.
Michael Press, the Senior Independent Director, led a separate evaluation of the Chairman through a series of Information and professional development questionnaire led interviews with other members of the Board and To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors are given senior management before providing feedback to the Chairman appropriate documentation in advance of Board meetings.
Board evaluation will continue on an agenda and supporting Board papers are generally distributed by annual basis.
the Secretary to the Board at least a week in advance of each scheduled Board meeting and 24 hours in advance of an Re-election of Directors unscheduled meeting.
In addition, all Directors are encouraged to All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association make further enquiries as they feel appropriate of the executive to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election after their Directors or management team.
initial appointment by the Board and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
Sufficient biographical information and The Company has a formal programme of training for its Directors, other information including, in the case of a Non-executive Director which is designed both to increase familiarity with the groups seeking re-election, a statement as to his continued effectiveness business operations as well as to develop technical skills and and commitment is provided to enable shareholders to make an knowledge.
The Company is committed to providing continuing informed decision.
education to Directors in relation to its business and as such ensures that members of senior management give regular Directors remuneration presentations to the Board on significant areas of business While the Board is ultimately responsible for Directors operations.
In 2008, presentations were made at three of the remuneration, the Remuneration Committee, consisting solely scheduled board meetings on the following aspects of the of independent Non-executive Directors, is responsible for groups activities: its Brownfield business: its activities in the determining the remuneration and conditions of employment of Commonwealth of Independent States: and its Tunisian business, executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
which included a visit to a gas processing LPG and condensate A Report on the Directors remuneration, including a more detailed plant in Hasdrubal where the Engineering & Construction division description of the role and activities of the Remuneration was nearing completion of a significant engineering, procurement, Committee is set out on pages 66 to 74. construction and commissioning contract for BG Tunisia Limited.
For 2009, the Chairman and Group Chief Executive will agree Accountability and audit further business presentations and at least one site visit, having Internal control due regard not only to previous presentations but also the The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the groups evolving strategy.
As well as assisting Directors in their groups system of internal control, including financial, operational understanding of the groups business, the Company is committed and compliance controls and systems for the identification and to ensuring that its Directors technical knowledge, particularly in management of risk.
The Audit Committee routinely meets with relation to the governance requirements for a UK listed company, both the internal and external auditors and discusses matters of remains up to date.
The Secretary to the Board provides regular internal control.
In addition, the Audit Committee, on behalf of technical updates to the Board and its formal committees.
Once a the Board, conducted a specific review of the internal control year, the Chairman formally requests each Director to consider environment following the year end.
The Risk Committee, a whether or not he requires any specific training on any aspect of committee of the Board, complements the Audit Committee by the Companys activities.
Further, any Director may request the focussing in more detail on the groups operational controls and Secretary to the Board to arrange any individual training or risk management framework.
The groups system of internal control professional development if he feels that this would be helpful can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against to him in discharging his responsibilities.
In 2008, the Secretary material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather to the Board arranged for the Companys legal advisers to provide than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Directors with a refresher session on the legislative and regulatory However, the focus on risks and controls by these two Committees framework for share dealing by Directors and senior employees.
of the Board ensures a strong oversight process for the full Board.
In the event that the Board appoints a new Director, the Chairman The group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and works with the individual and the Secretary to the Board to develop managing significant risks faced by the group, which has been in a tailored induction programme to take account of the individuals place for the year under review and up to the date of this Annual specific needs.
Report and is in accordance with the Revised Turnbull guidance.
Governance 63 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance report The key elements which make up a robust system of internal if they do occur and the actions being taken in order to manage control in a business may be characterised by the business control and mitigate those risks.
The Head of Enterprise Risk Management environment and its risk management and assurance process.
A has access to the risk matrices for the businesses and furthermore description of each of these elements for the group is given below.
receives regular reports from the management team for each business.
He provides regular and detailed formal updates to the Control environment full Board both on the most material of these individual business The Board ensures that the group has a clear organisational risks as well as any risks separately identified by the groups most structure for the control and monitoring of its businesses, including senior management, which are judged to have the potential to defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Each of affect the whole enterprise.
Historically, there has been no the groups businesses operates and maintains its own business dedicated management forum in which such enterprise risks have management system designed to ensure the application of sound been identified and considered but management has decided to processes of control to all projects and business activities: such introduce such a forum in 2009. systems encompass policies and procedures relating to all major areas of risk, including matters relating to contract execution: health The Board has a Risk Committee whose members are the following and safety: security: and the environment.
The Company has a independent Non-executive Directors: Kjell Almskog Chairman, Group Head of Health, Safety, Security, the Environment and Bernard fide Combret, Michael Press and Rijnhard van Tets.
The Integrity Assurance HSSEIA who heads a team with responsibility Committee met three times during the year and is supported by the for overseeing the development of appropriate HSSEIA management Head of Enterprise Risk Management.
It has formal terms of systems and ensuring compliance with them, across the group.
reference, which are reviewed annually by the Committee and are The role of Group Head of HSSEIA was created in 2007, available on the Companys website.
The Secretary to the Board management having taken the decision to expand the remit of the acts as secretary to the Committee.
Minutes for all meetings are Group Head of Health, Safety and Security to include responsibility circulated to all Directors and supplemented by an oral report from for the groups environment and integrity assurance management the Committees Chairman at the next Board meeting.
Prior to this, the Board had taken the decision to form an Committee takes primary responsibility for: Environmental Committee, partly in response to the lack of any reviewing proposed group risk policy and procedures and dedicated group resource with overall responsibility for managing recommending that they be adopted by the Board environmental matters.
Although the Committees primary role was overseeing group operational risk management systems including that of oversight in relation to the groups environmental policy, insurance management environmental management systems, environmental targets and reviewing any external disclosures made by the group in relation key performance indicators, it often took the initiative in seeking to to its risk management implement group environmental management systems and targets.
The Committee was able to do this effectively as the majority of its As well as considering existing risks, a rigorous process exists for members were executive Directors albeit Rodney Chase acted as the consideration of risks associated with undertaking new chairman.
However, following the appointment of the Group Head business via individual business and group risk review committees.
of HSSEIA, the Board agreed that the individual concerned would Further, during the year management strengthened the process as part of his role, take on responsibility for a group approach to by which it reviews ongoing risks associated with ongoing management of environmental matters and provide formal updates major projects.
to the full Board twice a year: the full Board henceforth restricting itself to responsibility for the oversight of environmental matters.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business As a result, the Environmental Committee was viewed as redundant are disclosed on pages 28 and 29. and it was therefore disbanded during the year.
The Board considers that the Environmental Committee provided a vital, initial impetus Assurances for the consideration of group environmental matters but that the The Board receives assurances from the following internal and new environmental reporting structure taken in conjunction with the external controls: additional resourcing provided, is a more appropriate framework for historical financial performance and revised forecasts for the full the development of the groups environmental management.
year with significant variances are regularly reported by management to the Board For details about environmental progress, refer to page 50 of the reports from the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
The Company has a Code the close involvement of the executive Directors in all aspects of of Business Conduct Code, which amongst other matters, the groups day-to-day operations, including regular meetings includes policies for the Company and its employees on health and each month with the head of each business unit safety: security: the environment: and areas of legal compliance.
customer audits Towards the end of 2008, the Board approved a revised Code reports and presentations to the Board by senior management which management had extensively re-drafted, not only to ensure including the Group Director of Legal and Commercial Affairs: the compliance with current best practice and new legislation but also Group Director of HSSEIA: the Head of Enterprise Risk to make it easier for employees to understand.
Management will Management: and the Group Head of Tax focus on increasing employee awareness and understanding of the copies of minutes from group risk review committee meetings revised Code following its publication in 2009.
The group has a procedure in place to ensure that employees may raise ethical Relations with shareholders concerns in confidence.
The Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Investor Relations have regular meetings with major shareholders Risk management and research analysts.
The Chairman reminds major shareholders Each of the groups individual businesses operates and maintains a annually, in writing, of his availability along with the Senior business management system incorporating policies and Independent Director should there be issues which the procedures in relation to risk management.
In addition, each shareholders wish to discuss.
business is required to produce a risk matrix which identifies key business risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their impact 64 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance report continued The Board receives regular feedback from analysts and major at the next Board meeting.
The Committees principal roles and shareholders, compiled by the Companys brokers and financial PR responsibilities include the following: consultants, in particular following presentations and meetings after consider and make recommendations to the Board on all new the publication of financial results.
appointments of Directors taking into account the overall size, balance and composition of the Board The principal method of communicating with the majority of consider succession planning shareholders is via the Annual Report and financial statements make recommendations to the Board concerning the and the Companys website which contains details of financial re-appointment of any Director following conclusion of his presentations to analysts and other information about the group.
specified term in office All shareholders have the opportunity to attend the Annual General Meeting.
All Directors were present at the 2008 Annual General Meetings are held as deemed necessary by the Chairman and Meeting and all intend to be present at the 2009 Annual General during the course of 2008, two meetings were held and all Meeting to answer shareholders questions.
Details of the meeting members attended.
The Committee considered its terms of are set out in the Notice of Meeting which is sent to shareholders, reference: the Boards size and composition: managements and which contains the text of resolutions to be proposed and succession planning: training: and the proposed re-election of Kjell explanatory notes, where necessary.
Shareholders attending will Almskog, Amjad Bseisu and Maroun Semaan at the 2009 Annual be advised of the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution, General Meeting.
The Committee recommended to the Board that in the categories for and against, together with the number of all three Directors offering themselves for re-election should be votes withheld.
All resolutions will be voted on by taking a poll, the proposed for re-election by the Companys shareholders having results of which will be announced to the London Stock Exchange taken into account their individual performances, which were and published on the Companys website.
considered as part of the annual Board evaluation exercise.
As a company incorporated in Jersey, shareholders are required This Report was approved by the Board on 6 March 2009. under the UK Listing Authority to notify the Company in the event that they can exercise 5% or more of the Companys voting rights.
Rodney Chase If the Company were incorporated in the UK, shareholders would Chairman be required to notify the Company in the event that they could exercise 3% or more of the Companys voting rights.
As a matter of principle, the Company has tried wherever possible to govern itself Audit Committee Report as if it were incorporated in the UK rather than Jersey and for this Membership of the Audit Committee during the year and to the reason, adopted Articles of Association which currently require its date of this Report is as follows: shareholders to notify the Company in the event that a shareholder Rijnhard van Tets acquires voting rights in 3% or more in the Companys share Kjell Almskog capital.
The Company currently has 345,434,858 shares in issue Michael Press and each share has one vote.
One shareholder has notified the Company as at 13 February 2009 that it has an interest in 3% or Both Rijnhard van Tets and Kjell Almskog have recent and relevant more of the Company and is as follows: financial experience and are deemed to have competence in accounting.
Number of Percentage ordinary of allotted The Committees powers are conferred to it under the Companys shares share capital Articles of Association.
It has formal terms of reference, which have Legal & General Group Plc 13,900,929 4.02% been drafted in accordance with the Combined Code, are reviewed annually by the Committee and are available on the Companys In addition to the above, Ayman Asfari and Maroun Semaan website.
The Committees principal roles and responsibilities include: together with their respective close families held major monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements shareholdings, details of which are disclosed in the Remuneration and announcements relating to its financial performance and Report on page 74. reviewing significant financial reporting judgements keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal This Report was approved by the Board on 6 March 2009. control and risk management systems monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function and Nominations Committee Report reviewing its material findings Membership of the Nominations Committee during the year and overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, including to the date of this Report is as follows: agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement, monitoring Rodney Chase Chairman their independence, objectivity and effectiveness and ensuring Ayman Asfari that policy surrounding their engagement to provide non-audit Kjell Almskog services is appropriately applied Michael Press Bernard fide Combret The Committee is authorised to investigate any matters within its terms of reference and may therefore seek any information it The Committees powers are conferred on it under the Companys requires from any employee and obtain, at the Companys expense, Articles of Association.
It has formal terms of reference, which have such professional advice as it sees fit in order to fulfil its duties.
been drafted in accordance with the Combined Code, are reviewed However, the Committee has no executive function and its primary annually by the Committee and are available on the Companys role is to review and challenge, rather than assume responsibility website.
The Secretary to the Board acts as secretary to the for any matters within its remit.
Minutes for all meetings are circulated to all Directors unless there is deemed to be a conflict of interest and supplemented by an oral report from the Committees Chairman Governance 65 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance report Attendance at the Committee meetings is at the invitation of the Internal audit Chairman of the Committee.
However, the Chief Financial Officer, The Committee evaluated the performance of internal audit from Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit and the the quality of reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit: external auditors generally attend some or all of the Committee feedback from management: and, an assessment of work planned meetings.
The Group Head of Internal Audit and the external and undertaken.
During the year, the Group Head of Internal Audit auditors have the right to speak directly to the Chairman of the recruited two additional members of staff so that the department is Committee at any time and have the opportunity to meet the currently staffed by six individuals including the Group Head of Committee without management present at least once a year.
The members of the department include accountants, The Secretary to the Board acts as secretary to the Committee.
IT specialists and an oil & gas engineer.
The Committee will continue to keep the resourcing of the department under review Minutes for all meetings of the Committee are circulated to all but currently believes it is adequate both in terms of head count, Directors and supplemented by an oral report from the Committees experience and capability.
Chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any matters in respect of which action or improvement is required and making External Audit recommendations where appropriate.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the external auditors be re-appointed following an assessment of the quality The Committee met six times during the year and considered the of service provided, including the qualifications of the external following matters: auditors: the expertise and resources made available to the group: the auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit Financial reporting process.
The decision was based on consideration of reports The Committee reviewed the 2007 Annual Report and financial issued by external auditors and feedback from the Chief Financial statements and the 2008 Interim Report issued in September 2008 Officer and Group Financial Controller.
before recommending their publication to the Board.
As part of this overall review, the Committee considered the draft preliminary The Committee satisfied itself that the external auditors remain announcements in respect of the Companys 2007 final and 2008 independent having regard to the auditors procedures for interim results.
The Committee discussed with the Chief Financial maintaining and monitoring independence: the auditors policy for Officer and external auditors the significant accounting policies, rotation of the lead partner and key audit personnel: and a policy estimates and judgements in preparing the Companys 2007 which specifies areas of non-audit services that can be carried out Annual Report and financial statements and 2008 Interim Report.
by the external auditors and the financial thresholds above which In addition, the Committee reviewed drafts of trading statements non-audit services require the approval of the Chairman of the and interim management statements before recommending their Committee.
The non-audit services policy was reviewed by the publication to the Board.
Committee during the year and amended in line with best corporate governance practice.
Any individual fees in relation to Internal controls and risk management systems non-audit services in excess of US$200,000 and or any excess of The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the Companys the aggregate fees for non-audit services above 50% of the annual internal controls and it primarily discharges this responsibility audit fee require approval from the Chairman of the Committee.
through its engagement with the groups internal and external Within these parameters, where it is considered reasonable that auditors.
An annual internal audit plan, drawn up on a risk-based the external auditors undertake non-audit services for sound approach, is presented to the Committee for its review and commercial and practical reasons without inhibiting objectivity, approval at the start of the financial year.
The Group Head of then engagement is permitted.
Such services might include Internal Audit provides the Committee with an interim progress independent certification, reporting for Financial Services Authority report part way through the year, as a result of which the audit plan or UK Listing Authority UKLA purposes and tax advice.
The cost may be revised, before returning to the Committee with his final of services provided by the external auditors during the year is report for the year at the start of the subsequent year.
At the same detailed in note 4g to the financial statements.
Most of the cost of time as the final report for the previous year is presented, an audit non-audit services was associated with tax and assurance services plan for the current year is proposed and so the ongoing process where involvement by the external auditors was considered of internal control review is continued.
In 2008, the internal audit appropriate and in the best commercial interests of the group.
department completed a total of 39 assignments across a broad cross-section of activities.
Attendance at the meetings during the year was as follows: In addition, the Committee also received presentations or reports Number of meetings 6 during the year in relation to the groups whistle blowing policy Rijnhard van Tets known as the speaking up policy by employees and its Chairman 6 effectiveness: and the groups use of an aircraft owned by Kjell Almskog 5 an offshore trust in which the Group Chief Executive has a Michael Press 6 beneficial interest.
1 Kjell Almskog was unable to attend one meeting due to a prior commitment.
This Report was approved by the Board on 6 March 2009.
Rijnhard van Tets Committee Chairman
