Enabling innovation in non-mobile Samsung Series 6 7 8 9 HDTV delivers a complete multimedia experience on one screen The Samsung 6 7 8 9 series high definition The ARM processor is used to create a digital TV HDTV is the next step to the window onto the internet to collect and future of TV technology.
As well as display up-to-date information on screen.
delivering an excellent visual and audio Samsung believes that by starting with experience, the Series 6 7 8 9 is also bite-sized interactive choices, rather than filled with innovative features to connect overpowering consumers with too much consumers to online multimedia content.
information, they will conquer aversion to using the TV for surfing and viewing.
One of the most innovative features incorporated into the 6 7 8 9 series Dr. Donghoon Lee, senior vice president HDTV is the ability for the user to display of Samsung Digital Media Division up-to-date information on the TV screen, direct from the internet, without having to boot up a PC.
The 6 7 8 9 series HDTV incorporates an ARM11-based chip manufactured by Samsungs Digital Media division.
Samsung have used the ARM processor to connect to the internet and to display streaming web-feeds using an on-screen graphic.
News, weather and stock market updates can all be displayed while you are watching TV.
Enabling innovation in physical IP ARM collaborates with industry leaders to develop advanced physical IP for leading manufacturing processes ARM, IBM, Chartered Semiconductor This collaboration with ARM extends Manufacturing Ltd. and Samsung IBMs research strategy to the next Electronics Co. Ltd, have announced a level, through a common platform for collaboration in which ARM will develop manufacturing to the leading consumer and license a comprehensive 32 and 28nm application architecture.
physical IP design platform supporting the Mike Cadigan, general manager, Common Platform and IBM technologies Semiconductor Solutions, IBM to enable advanced semiconductor The collaboration between ARM and manufacturing processes.
leading manufacturing partners will drive Together ARM, IBM, Chartered and a new level of optimised, power-efficient Samsung combine leading R&D and system-on-chips.
This joint development world-class manufacturing of advanced and ecosystem collaboration is the semiconductors for mobile internet devices leading model for moving invention and other high-performance, low-power to open industry access.
Chia Song Hwee, president and CEO, ARM will deliver the 32nm physical IP Chartered platform in 2009 to lead partners.
The first This collaboration provides our mutual commercial 28nm processor should be customers with leading design solutions available in 2010 along with a broader that combine our process breakthroughs portfolio of optimised physical IP for the in 32nm process technology and ARM ARM Cortex processor family.
optimised low-power, high-performance cores and libraries.
Dr. Chang Sik Choi, executive vice president, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.
This collaboration with ARM extends IBMs research strategy to the next level, through a common platform for manufacturing to the leading consumer application architecture.
Mike Cadigan general manager, semiconductor solutions IBM The ARM processor is used to create a window onto the internet to collect and display up-to-date information on-screen.
Samsung believes that by starting with bite sized interactive choices, rather than overpowering consumers with too much information, they will conquer aversion to using the TV for surfing and viewing.
Dr. Donghoon Lee senior vice president of Samsung Digital Media Division
