57 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Board role and meetings governance throughout the Group.
The Board is accountable to the The role of the Board is to: Companys shareholders for good governance and this statement provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a describes how the principles identified in the Combined Code on framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk Corporate Governance as updated in June 2006 are applied by to be assessed and managed: the Company.
set the Companys strategic aims, ensure that the necessary The Board confirms that the Company has complied with all of the financial and human resources are in place for the Company provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout to meet its objectives, and review management performance: the year, except that Non-Executive Directors did not attend meetings with major shareholders.
This point is explained below.
set the Companys values and standards and ensure that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood Directors and met: At the start of the year, the Board consisted of the Chairman, ensure adequate succession planning is in place for the Groups four Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
most senior management: and On 1 September 2007 Dennis Millard and Paul Withers joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors.
establish and monitor the Groups policies and performance in the area of corporate social responsibility.
The Chairman continued with his other commitments consisting of the Non-Executive Chairmanships of Symbian Limited and GHG The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis and exercises Limited General Healthcare Group and his memberships of the control over the performance of each operating company within the HM Treasury Board which ceased at the end of March 2008, Group by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring performance the Advisory Board of the UK Defence Academy and the Court against those targets.
Certain matters are reserved for approval by and Council of Imperial College.
During the year he took up the the Board and the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups Non-Executive Chairmanship of Vertex Data Science Limited system of internal controls and risk management, as described later and stepped down from the BT European Advisory Board.
All the Non-Executive Directors who have served during the year The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are clearly are considered by the Board to be independent and each Director defined and separate.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for has provided written confirmation that they have no relationships the executive management of the Groups business: the Chairman with the Company that might compromise their independence.
John Roques is the Companys Senior Independent Non-Executive The Board has five scheduled meetings each year and others as Director and is available to shareholders if they have concerns which required.
During 2007 two additional Board meetings were held to contact through the normal channels cannot resolve, or where the consider specific matters.
The matters reserved to the Board for normal channels are inappropriate.
decision include major capital expenditure, significant investments or disposals, treasury policy and the appointment and removal of Biographies of the Board members appear on page 55. the Company Secretary.
In certain areas, specific responsibility These indicate the high level and broad range of experience is delegated to committees of the Board within defined terms that they possess.
The Directors knowledge of the Groups of reference.
business and of legal, accounting and market developments is frequently updated by presentations made at Board and Board The Audit and Remuneration Committees have, respectively, Committee meetings.
five and four scheduled meetings each year, although additional meetings may be held where required.
The Nominations Committee The appointment letters for Non-Executive Directors include meets as required.
the time commitment expected of them and confirmation that they have sufficient time available to meet this commitment.
During the year, all Directors attended the Board meetings that Non-Executive Directors are required to obtain the approval were held during their respective periods of service, apart from of the Chairman before taking on further appointments and the Cary Nolan, who was absent for one meeting.
All of the members Chairman requires approval from the Board before adding to of the respective committees attended the five Audit Committee, his commitments.
four Remuneration Committee and two Nominations Committee meetings that were held, except for one meeting of each of the A formal and comprehensive induction process is in place for Audit and Remuneration Committees that Cary Nolan was unable new Directors.
This includes presentations from management to attend.
Complete copies of the terms of reference of the Audit, Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, to retire and on the Companys web site at www.
seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The membership of the Committees appears on page 55.
The Articles also require that every Director must retire and seek re-election at least every three years.
58 Corporate Governance continued The Non-Executive Directors held meetings during the year without The main points from this review were that: the Executive Directors present to discuss, among other things, 2007 Performance Review outcomes and actions the performance of the Company and the Executive Directors, and Outcome Action the Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman present to discuss the Chairmans performance.
Chairman and CEO to consider Full update on progress on the appropriate points at which the strategy announced in October There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent Board should spend time 2006 provided and discussed professional advice at the Companys expense, if necessary, in the dedicated to considering the in December 2007. performance of their duties.
This is in addition to the access that Groups strategy.
every Director has to the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that Board Hold one Board meeting September 2007 Board procedures are followed and for advising the Board on all each year other than at the meeting held in the US and governance matters.
Companys London office, combined with visit to a Newark The Board has adopted a number of corporate governance combining the meeting with branch, meetings with members policies, including a Group Code of Ethics covering issues such as an additional business purpose.
of the US management team conflicts of interest, fraud and whistle-blowing.
A copy of the Code and a detailed review of the is also available on the Companys web site.
The Company has Newark business.
implemented arrangements with an independent organisation to Nominations Committee to be Committee met in January 2007 receive information from employees for whistle-blowing purposes.
more pro-active in considering and identified the key The Company has also adopted policies on share dealing and the future composition and requirements for new Noninside information.
Executive Directors and the To enable the Board to function effectively and assist Directors to process to recruit them, in discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all anticipation of the periods of relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of service of two existing Nona comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress Executive Directors coming to reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
an end at the Companys In addition, individual Directors meet with senior management and Annual General Meeting in 2008. are encouraged to make periodic site visits, including overseas This led to the appointments of where appropriate.
Senior managers are regularly invited to Board Paul Withers and Dennis Millard.
meetings and make business presentations.
The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, maintains 2008 Performance Review main outcomes a rolling twelve-month agenda for Board meetings to ensure all In addition to the performance targets contained in the relevant matters are planned in to the cycle of meetings and Companys Performance Share Plan, agree a small number of considered at the appropriate time.
additional criteria to assess the success of the Company over a three to five year timeframe.
The Board performance evaluation Review the purpose and frequency of Non-Executive Director During the year a performance evaluation was carried out covering only meetings.
the Board, each of the principal Board Committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation process consisted of a one to one Continue to improve the quality of Board papers.
A first step discussion between the Chairman and each of the other Directors will be for Non-Executive Directors to provide specific and the Company Secretary.
This discussion was based on a feedback on each paper produced for three Board and series of questions devised for the purpose and circulated before Board Committee meetings.
These questions combined those used for the Consider what steps can be taken to mitigate the time pressure previous years evaluation with additions designed to increase the on Board meetings.
breadth and depth of the evaluation.
In addition, each Director completed a questionnaire appraising the performance of each Document the process for evaluation of the performance of the other Director.
The results of these evaluations were collated by Chief Executive.
the Company Secretary and considered by the Chairman or, in the case of the Chairman, by the Senior Independent Director.
Remuneration The Chairman discussed with each Director points arising from The composition and role of the Remuneration Committee is set his or her evaluation.
out in the Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 70.
The evaluation of the Chairman was discussed in a meeting of the Full details of Directors remuneration and a statement of Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Director.
the Companys remuneration policy also appear in the The Chief Executive was invited to attend part of the meeting to Remuneration Report.
The Senior Independent Director subsequently Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or voting at discussed the outcomes of this evaluation with the Chairman.
full Board meetings on Remuneration Committee recommendations The performance of the Board as a whole, and of each of its where the recommendations have a direct bearing on his or her principal Committees was considered by the Board.
The Chairman own remuneration package.
led this discussion, based on the results of his one to one The details of each Executive Directors individual package are fixed discussions.
The Board also reviewed the main outcomes of the by the Remuneration Committee in line with the policy adopted by prior years evaluation process and the actions taken.
59 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Nominations Committee context of the audit fee for the year, in order to ensure that the The Nominations Committee, comprising the Chairman, the value of non-audit services does not increase to a level where it has Senior Independent Director and William Korb, meets as necessary.
the potential to affect the auditors objectivity and independence.
The Committees principal function is to provide advice and The Committee also receives an annual confirmation of recommendations to the Board on any appointments to the Board.
The Committee also keeps the composition and balance of the Throughout the year, the Group has been in full compliance Board under review.
with the applicable provisions on internal control contained in During the year, the Committee was involved in the appointments of the Combined Code.
Dennis Millard and Paul Withers as Non-Executive Directors.
As well The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of as making recommendations to the Board as a whole, Committee internal controls and risk management, designed to safeguard members consulted Non-Executive and Executive Directors shareholder investment and the Companys assets.
The Audit individually on these appointments.
External search agencies were Committee monitors the systems effectiveness on behalf of the used to identify suitable candidates, based on descriptions of the Board and reviews it at least annually, while responsibility for roles and the required capabilities supplied by the Committee.
implementing the system rests with the Executive Directors.
The system includes an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating Audit Committee and internal control and managing significant business risks.
However, any system The primary role of the Audit Committee is to keep under review the can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of Groups financial and other systems and controls and its financial meeting internal control objectives and is designed to manage reporting procedures.
In fulfilling this role, the Committee receives rather than eliminate the risk of the Company failing to meet its and reviews work carried out by the Internal and External Auditors business objectives.
The Companys Internal Audit department works to an annual programme developed in consultation with Summarised below are the ways in which risks are identified: the the Committee, as well as covering specific matters arising during controls that are in place and the assurance steps that are taken.
The processes described have been in place for the year and accord with the Internal Control Guidelines for directors on the The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Companys web site.
In addition, and following a recommendation Turnbull Guidance.
from the Smith Report, the Committee has also adopted and implemented a Group-wide policy restricting the appointment Risk identification of former employees of the external auditors.
As well as the risks that management identifies through the ongoing John Roques, the Committees Chairman, was formerly the UK processes of reporting and comparing actual performance against senior partner at the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche and brings detailed financial and operating plans, analysing significant variances financial expertise to the Committee.
As previously announced, and scrutinising key performance indicators, the risk identification Dennis Millard is proposed to assume Chairmanship of the processes include: Committee on John Roques' retirement and is considered to An ongoing risks and controls process for identifying, evaluating have the necessary financial expertise for the role.
and managing major business risks.
During the year business The Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of both and function leaders have operated the process, which has the internal and external audit functions under review.
This now been coordinated by the Head of Internal Audit.
The results of includes an annual review of the effectiveness of the external the process are reviewed by the Audit Committee: auditors, including their quality control procedures.
During the year Internal audit and external audit reports which, as well as Deloitte & Touche carried out an assessment of the Internal Audit commenting on controls to manage identified risks, also identify Departments effectiveness and the results of that review were new risk areas: presented to and considered by the Committee.
The Committee identified a number of areas for improvement and work has A Code of Ethics that encourages employees to report any commenced on implementation.
areas of concern regarding compliance with financial and other controls, combined with a confidential whistle-blowing helpline: The independence and objectivity of the external auditors is also considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level of A Disclosure Committee that meets at least four times a year non-audit fees.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the to review all financial statements issued by the Company.
year to 3 February 2008 and information on the nature of the nonThe minutes of all meetings of this Committee are received audit fees incurred appear in note 4 to the Consolidated Financial by the Audit Committee: and Statements.
The non-audit fees were paid in respect of assurance A quarterly process which collates all contingent liabilities and tax compliance work and are considered by the Committee identified by business units and function heads and leads not to affect the independence or objectivity of the Auditors.
to their presentation to the Disclosure Committee and the The external auditors appointment is subject to review every four Audit Committee.
years by the Committee and the lead audit partner is rotated at The identification of key risks is also embedded in the Groups least every five years.
The Committee also maintains a formal policy ongoing consideration of its strategy.
Quarterly meetings of senior on the provision of non-audit services by the auditors, which is managers from the Groups business units and central functions reviewed each year.
This policy prohibits the provision of services are held to monitor progress in respect of the Groups strategy such as financial information systems design and implementation: and consider how it should respond to market developments.
internal audit outsourcing and legal services and requires that others Two of these meetings are dedicated, in part, to addressing are subject to prior approval by the Committee or its Chairman.
the identification and mitigation of risks that may affect the This policy allows specific tax compliance services within defined Groups strategy.
monetary limits to be pre-approved by the Committee at the beginning of the year.
All other permitted non-audit services are Controls considered on a case-by-case basis.
A Code of Ethics that is widely communicated including via the At each of its meetings, the Committee is provided with information Group intranet and supported by a module on the Groups onon all non-audit services provided by the auditors and the estimated line learning centre that clearly defines expected standards of cost of such services.
The Committee monitors such costs, in the business behaviour: 60 Corporate Governance continued Defined organisational structure with appropriate delegation The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its activities and of authorities: all Board members receive copies of the minutes of Audit Committee meetings.
Formal authorisation procedures for all investments: The Audit Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness Clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial of the Groups system of internal controls during the year and management for the maintenance of good financial controls confirms that the necessary action plans to remedy identified and the production and review of detailed, accurate and timely weaknesses in internal control are in place.
financial management information: The statement of the Directors responsibilities in relation to the The control of key financial risks through clear authorisation levels accounts appears on page 63. and proper segregation of duties: Going concern A comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation an annual budget approved by the Board and review of monthly that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to variances against detailed financial and operating plans: continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this A quarter-end controls checklist.
This includes sign off from both reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the CEO and CFO of each business covering internal controls, the accounts.
legal and regulatory compliance, Code of Ethics, and tax issues as well as financial controls: and Communication with stakeholders The Company places a great deal of importance on communication A process of internal control self-assessment, coordinated by with its stakeholders.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders Assurance as well as general presentations after the interim and preliminary The risks and controls process clearly identifies senior results.
Since Harriet Greens appointment as Chief Executive management responsibilities for risk mitigation action plans: in April 2006, regular and frequent meetings have been held with a significant number of such shareholders.
All Company Internal Audit independently reviews the risks and controls process operated by management: announcements are published on the Companys web site, together with presentation materials.
Internal Audit carries out independent audits.
The annual Internal The Board regards the discussion of the Companys strategy as Audit plan, agreed with the Audit Committee at the start of primarily the role of the Chief Executive and this forms part of the each year, provides a high degree of financial and location regular meetings held with institutional shareholders.
The Board coverage, as well as allocating a significant proportion of effort also receives copies of analysts reports on the Company.
to reviewing the risk management frameworks surrounding major business risks: During the year, external advisors provided the Board with regular Internal Audit reports include recommendations to improve reports on the investment communitys views on the Company and its management, including a comprehensive investor audit.
internal controls, together with agreed senior management responsibility and target resolution dates.
The Internal Audit The Chairman is available to shareholders at any time to discuss Reports, included in the papers for every Audit Committee strategy and governance matters.
While Non-Executive Directors meeting, summarise these recommendations: do not ordinarily attend meetings with major shareholders, they would do so if this were requested by shareholders.
Internal Audit follows up implementation of recommendations.
The follow up process for high priority internal audit issues All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at includes monthly status reporting to senior management and the Companys Annual General Meeting.
All Directors are usually to the Audit Committee: available to take questions at the meeting.
The Audit Committee receives a full report from the Head of At the AGM, separate resolutions are proposed on each separate Internal Audit each year on the departments work and findings, issue and proxy forms allow shareholders to vote for or against, or in addition to the updates on specific issues provided at each to withhold their vote on each resolution.
meeting of the Committee: The results of proxy voting are made available on the Companys The effectiveness of the internal audit function is externally website after the meeting and at the meeting itself to shareholders assessed every three years.
In each other year an internal selfwho attend.
assessment is carried out in accordance with ICAEW guidance.
The notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working The results of external and internal assessments are reported to days before the meeting.
the Audit Committee: A comprehensive external audit plan is agreed with the As discussed in the Directors Report, employee communication is given high priority.
As well as formal structures, such as the Audit Committee: Companys European and UK Works Councils, considerable time is The effectiveness of the external auditor is reviewed annually devoted to other forms of employee communication.
These include and reported to the Audit Committee: and extensive employee briefings conducted by the Chief Executive and other members of senior management at regular intervals and a Certification is required from individual executive managers of relevant sections of all financial statements.
Group-wide intranet that is updated daily with information relevant to employees.
An executive management committee, the Disclosure Committee, The Group also communicates widely with suppliers and monitors and reviews processes for disclosures made by the customers, both individually and through group events such Company to its shareholders and reviews such disclosures before as seminars on key industry developments and focus groups.
they are considered by the Board.
The Group is also active in its local communities, as described in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Business Review.
