Directors remuneration report continued g Pensions audited information D R Martin S J Clayton S P Lonsdale Scheme 231 Normal retirement age 65 65 65 Directors contribution Nil Nil Nil Increase in accrued pension during the year allowing for indexation pa 25,344 8,961 13,567 Gross increase in accrued pension pa 34,374 12,888 22,100 Accrued pension at 31 12 2008 pa 334,928 113,585 240,875 Accrued pension at 31 12 2007 pa 300,554 100,697 218,755 Value of net increase in accrual over period 260,499 112,613 138,845 Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 12 2007 4,281,623 1,056,898 1,992,137 Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 12 2008 3,600,772 1,427,413 2,698,358 Total change in value during period 680,851 370,515 706,221 1 Arriva Pension Scheme 2 Arriva Passenger Services Pension Plan 3 Arriva London North & Arriva London South Pension Scheme Notes: 1.
Notwithstanding an increase in Mr Martins accrued pension at 31 December 2008, the transfer value fell in comparison with the previous year reflecting changes in market conditions and changes to the calculation of the transfer value consequent upon the adoption of revised assumptions for the 2008 valuation of the Arriva Passenger Services Pension Plan.
The transfer values for Messrs Clayton and Lonsdale have increased as a result of an increase in their accrued pensions, changes in market conditions and the impact of the trustees of their respective schemes having adopted increased allowances for future mortality improvements for all scheme members.
Messrs Martin, Clayton and Lonsdale are now accruing pension at 1 30th of base pay for all years of service.
For service pre 2000 pension had been calculated at 1 60th per annum of base pay and a restricted element of bonus: in accordance with best practice guidelines, bonus is now removed from the calculation which now computes pension at 1 30th per annum of base salary for all service.
This change does not alter the actuarial value of the benefit.
No future executive director external appointees to the Board will be eligible for a final salary based pension arrangement, but instead will receive a cash contribution equal to 25 per cent of basic salary.
Mr Martin has the opportunity to elect to take an annual cash sum, paid monthly in arrears on a basis that is cost neutral to the company, in lieu of any future pension accrual.
h Service contracts Each of the three executive directors has a service contract dated 19 April 2006: the contracts are subject to 12 months notice from the company and six months notice from the director.
Each contract contains covenants restricting the ability of the director, within a period of six months from termination, from competing with the company.
The contracts make specific provision with regard to termination payments which are quantified as the sum of: i The directors basic pay at the date of termination: ii The amount of bonus estimated to be payable in respect of the year in which notice is served, but in any event capped at maximum of 40 per cent of basic pay: and iii The value of the benefits in kind.
Additionally, in the case of termination by the company, the company will seek to procure that the director is credited with an additional 12 months service in his respective pension scheme.
60 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Should the director terminate the contract within six months of a change of control of the company he will receive a termination payment equal to 50 per cent of the termination payment described above.
i External Board appointments The Board will permit executive directors to accept one appointment outside the company.
Before accepting such appointments the director s involved must receive the prior approval of the Board.
In considering such cases the Board will always satisfy itself, as far as is possible, that such appointments will not detract from the executive directors expected contribution to the company, nor that such appointment will create any conflict of interest: any fees earned by an executive director in such a capacity will be assigned to the company.
j TSR graph In accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, detailed below is a graph charting the performance of the companys Total Shareholder Return share value growth plus re-invested dividends over the past five years compared with the most relevant comparator indices as follows: a The FTSE 250: and b The FTSE 350 Travel and Leisure Index.
250 Total return indices - Arriva, FTSE 250 and FTSE 350 Travel and Leisure Index 200 150 100 31 12 2003 31 12 2004 31 12 2005 31 12 2006 31 12 2007 31 12 2008 Arriva return index FTSE 250 return index FTSE 350 Travel & Leisure return index k Remuneration report approval An ordinary resolution to consider and, if thought fit, approve this remuneration report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 22 April 2009.
For and on behalf of the Board N P Buckles Chairman, Remuneration Committee 4 March 2009 61 Corporate governance Compliance statement The essential principles of corporate governance applied by the company are detailed in Section 1 of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006 The 2006 Code and throughout the year under review the company in all material respects complied with those provisions.
In June 2008 the Financial Reporting Council issued a revised Code which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2008 and with which the company also complies in all material respects.
The purpose of this report is to describe how the principles of The 2006 Code have been applied by the company throughout the year under review.
The Board and its structure A.
General For the year under review, the Board comprised a non-executive chairman, three executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
At the Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2009 Steve Clayton and Veronica Palmer will retire as directors and Angie Risley will stand for election as a non-executive director: subsequent to these changes the Board will comprise a non-executive chairman, two executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
Steve Williams is the senior independent director and in this regard his responsibilities include providing shareholders with an additional channel of communication with the company should the normal channels be either inappropriate or have failed to provide resolution.
Additionally, in his capacity as senior independent director, Steve Williams may attend and participate at the meeting of any Board committee of which he is not a member.
In fulfilling its responsibilities for determining the groups strategic priorities and policies, providing overall direction and managing the balance between short, medium and long-term objectives, the Board reserves for itself decisions over certain critical areas including the approval of financial statements, long-term objectives and strategy, capital structure, organisational structure, Board and Board committee membership and the maintenance and development of good corporate governance practice.
The Board will normally meet between eight and 10 times annually, with one of the meetings always reserved for the review and testing of the groups strategy.
During 2008, the Board met on nine occasions.
The Board agenda is clearly structured, and, in addition to business matters that require attention, the Board receives financial, operational and progress reports from the executive directors, including matters relating to corporate social responsibility, the environment, management and employees and issues affecting the public transport industry in the UK and mainland Europe.
The Board also receives reports from the chairmen of its four principal committees and updates on regulatory, corporate governance and other compliance matters.
The roles of the chairman and the chief executive are clearly defined and separated and are set out in writing in the companys manual of corporate governance.
The chairman is responsible for the effective operation of the Board, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, Board succession and director performance evaluation and for ensuring constructive relations with shareholders.
The role of the chief executive is to devise and implement appropriate business strategies and to run the business and implement decisions agreed by the Board, having due regard to the long-term interests of the shareholders, employees and other stakeholders.
One-third of the directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting and all directors will have so submitted themselves every three years.
Directors newly-appointed to the Board will be subject to election by the shareholders at the first available opportunity following their appointment.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary who administers the Board and Board committee meetings, provides updates to the Board on regulatory and compliance developments and ensures that relevant procedures and regulations are adhered to.
There is an established procedure for any of the directors to obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense.
62 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 B.
Induction An induction programme applies to all new Board appointees and incorporates a full briefing of the groups businesses including site visits and meetings with senior managers, a review of the Boards approach to corporate governance and other general corporate issues.
C. Evaluation Each year the Board undertakes an evaluation of its own performance.
The performance evaluation for 2008, conducted in early 2009, was led by Steve Williams as the senior independent director and included a specific element concerning an assessment of the performance of the chairman.
D. Board committees As an integral part of discharging its corporate governance responsibilities effectively, the Board has established four principal committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Safety.
Each of the committees operates under clearly defined terms of reference which can be viewed on the companys website www.
co. uk within the corporate responsibility section.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises exclusively independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Simon Batey, a chartered accountant and former finance director of United Utilities plc and more latterly, until his retirement from that post, chief financial officer of Thames Water Utilities Limited.
The other members of the committee are Steve Williams and Veronica Palmer.
From 22 April 2009, subject to her election at the Annual General Meeting, Angie Risley will be appointed a member of the committee on Veronica Palmers retirement from the Board.
The Audit Committees principal areas of focus are: a Financial reporting The discipline of financial reporting is clearly an activity of crucial importance to the company, its shareholders and the wider stakeholder community.
It is the responsibility of the Audit Committee to monitor and provide assurance to the Board on the integrity of all of the companys financial statements.
As part of this process the committee is specifically required to review and challenge where necessary the continued application of the companys accounting policies and any changes thereto, the methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions and the clarity of the financial statements and reports.
b Internal control and risk management systems The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility of reviewing and providing assurance as to the companys systems of internal control and risk management, including risk transfer and risk retention policies and practices.
In this regard the Audit Committee is assisted by the group internal audit function, the head of which reports directly to the chairman of the Audit Committee.
c Internal audit A key element in the companys internal control and risk management mechanism is the group internal audit function.
A key responsibility of the committee is to provide assurance to the Board that appropriate action is being taken by the businesses to address relevant internal audit findings that have been communicated to the committee via the group internal audit function.
Additionally, the committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the group internal audit function.
This includes an assessment of the ongoing adequacy of internal audit resources and the functions continuing freedom from any management or other material restrictions which may impact on its ability to operate with complete independence and objectivity.
63 Corporate governance continued d External audit The external audit process is fundamental to any companys audit programme and the role of the external auditor is to provide assurance to the members of the company as a whole that the financial statements produced by the company are in all material respects true and fair.
Whilst the external auditor is ultimately appointed by the shareholders in general meeting it is inevitable that the regular contact with the company is via the executive directors, senior managers and other employees.
It is therefore against this background that the Audit Committee is charged by the Board with the responsibility of ensuring that the external auditor remains completely independent of the company and relevant officers of the company in all material respects and that the external audit firm is adequately resourced both from a technical and territorial capacity to enable it to deliver a completely objective audit to the shareholders.
It is the responsibility of the Audit Committee to formally recommend to the Board each year the continuation, or removal and replacement, of the external auditor.
This process is supported by a full annual review of the expertise, resources, effectiveness and independence of the external audit firm.
Additionally, the Audit Committee, as part of its ongoing process for ensuring continued audit independence, reviews and approves the level and nature of non-audit work performed.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee membership comprises the independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Sir Richard Broadbent.
The other members of the committee are Simon Batey, Nick Buckles, Veronica Palmer and Steve Williams.
The principal responsibility of the committee is to keep under regular review the structure, size and composition of the Board and to determine whether the level of resourcing remains appropriate.
This process will also include a regular review of the succession plans at both Board and senior management levels.
All Board appointments and the appointment of the senior independent director and the chairmen of the Board committees are the responsibility of the committee which is required, after appropriate review, research and interview, to make recommendations to the Board for approval.
Remuneration Committee The committee comprises exclusively non-executive directors and is chaired by Nick Buckles.
The other members of the committee are Sir Richard Broadbent and Simon Batey.
From 22 April 2009, subject to her election at the Annual General Meeting, Angie Risley will be appointed a member of the committee.
A full review of the work of the committee appears in the directors remuneration report on pages 54 to 61.
Safety Committee Given the nature of the groups businesses, the Board recognises the fundamental importance of safety and related issues.
The Safety Committee was established a number of years ago to address these matters.
The key responsibilities of the committee are to monitor and provide assurance to the Board on the companys safety policy and the arrangements for its implementation and reporting.
The committee receives reports and reviews the safety related key performance indicators.
The committee is chaired by Veronica Palmer.
The other members of the committee are Steve Williams and Steve Clayton.
From 22 April 2009 the committee will be chaired by Steve Williams and the other members will be Nick Buckles and Simon Batey.
David Martin also attends the committee: from 22 April 2009 he will also be the nominated director for safety.
The companys safety policy statement can be viewed on the website at www.
64 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 E. Board and Board committee attendance information Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Safety Number of meetings attendance 93 3 5 4 Sir Richard Broadbent 9 3 5 D R Martin 8 S J Clayton 9 4 S P Lonsdale 9 S G Batey 9 3 3 5 N P Buckles 9 3 5 A V M Palmer 9 3 3 4 S G Williams 9 3 3 4 F. Relations with shareholders The company has an established programme of communication with shareholders and the corporate communications department organises a regular series of presentations to analysts and investors.
It remains the Boards intention that these arrangements should continue as they represent an important feature of the process of facilitating helpful and constructive dialogue between the company and its major investors, subject of course to continuing to meet all regulatory and statutory requirements.
A procedure exists for the Board as a whole to receive direct feedback from the companys brokers of the investing communitys perception of the companys performance and strategy.
G. Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting is an opportunity for the Board to communicate with shareholders, particularly private shareholders.
A presentation on the progress and performance of the business is made by the chief executive following the formal business of the meeting, and the chairmen of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Safety committees are available to answer questions relating to their particular areas of responsibility.
Following each resolution, the meeting is informed of the number of proxy votes submitted in respect of each resolution: this information is also published on the companys website following the meeting.
H. Group policies The Board has approved and circulated across all the groups businesses a set of policies which are designed to strengthen and support the groups corporate governance and internal controls and to address key risks identified through the risk assessment and control process.
As part of the internal control process, businesses are required to certify their continued compliance with these policies.
The policies are kept under review to ensure compliance with best practice and any changes to the regulatory and statutory regimes.
All companies within the group are required to follow group policies, although it is recognised that in the case of newly acquired businesses there may be a period of time before full implementation can be achieved.
Businesses are required to report to the chief executive on an annual basis on any departures from, or non-compliance with group policies.
Conflicts of interest The statutory duties for directors set out in the Companies Act 2006 The 2006 Act relating to conflicts of interest came into force on 1 October 2008.
Under Section 175 of The 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008, a director has a statutory duty to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys interests.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, if the companys Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect.
At the companys 2008 Annual General Meeting a resolution was passed to amend the Articles to enable this and other provisions for dealing with the directors conflicts of interest.
The Board has introduced procedures to ensure that authorisation of conflicts is operated effectively.
At the October 2008 Board meeting, all potential conflicts of interest were disclosed by the directors and approved by the Board.
Any new conflict situations will be dealt with by the Board as they arise or on appointment of a director and all conflicts will be reviewed annually as will be the effectiveness of the procedures for authorisation of conflicts.
In January 2009 the directors were invited to review each of their disclosures which had been authorised by the Board in October 2008 and report any amendments that were relevant.
The amendments made were authorised by the Board the directors involved taking no part in the discussions relating to their disclosures at its meeting on 4 March 2009.
J. Whistleblowing The group operates a whistleblowing policy and procedure whereby employees can, in confidence, report on matters where they feel a malpractice is taking place.
Areas that are addressed by this procedure cover financial malpractice, criminal activities, dangers to health and safety or the environment or improper or unethical behaviour.
The procedures allow for employees to raise their concerns with line management or, if this is inappropriate, to raise them on a confidential basis.
A confidential telephone mailbox and confidential e-mail facility are provided to protect the identity of employees in these circumstances.
The complaint will be investigated in a confidential manner and, after a decision is made as to what further steps should be taken, feedback is given to the person making the complaint.
An official written record is kept of each stage of the procedure.
The whistleblowing policy and its operation is subject to periodic review by the Audit Committee: the last review was in February 2009 and the Audit Committee concluded that no amendments needed to be made to the policy.
66 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
