17 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 coRpoRAte GoVeRNANce stAteMeNt COMPLIANCE the Board is firmly committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained by the Group.
throughout the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the combined code 2006 principles of Good Governance and code of Best practice except that the Group did not comply with provisions A.
3.2 states that at least half of the Board, excluding the chairman, should comprise nonexecutive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
the Board recognise that the Group, having three executive directors and two nonexecutive directors, does not have a majority of nonexecutive directors.
At present the directors consider the current structure appropriate having regard to the size of the organisational structure of the Group and its current stage of development.
the chairman is a nonexecutive director and was deemed independent on appointment in 2007. section B.
2.1. states that the chairman may be a member of but should not be chairman of the remuneration committee.
the chairman acted as chairman of the remuneration committee during 2008 but was succeeded by John sleeman, in that role, at the first Board meeting in 2009. section c. 3.1. states that the audit committee should have at least three independent nonexecutive directors.
As there are only two nonexecutive directors and both are members of the audit committee the Group did not comply with this provision.
the directors at present consider the current structure appropriate having regard to the size of the organisational structure of the Group and its current stage of development.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS the Board is primarily responsible for the success of the Group by providing leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
the Board sets the Groups strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
the Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
the Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision.
this schedule is reviewed annually and includes approval of: b Group objectives, strategy and policies: b business planning: b substantial transactions, contracts and commitments: b review of performance: b risk assessment: b dividends: b appointments to the Board and as Group secretary: and b senior management appointments and succession plans.
other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board committees, which operate within clearly defined terms of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to Board committees are given on pages 18 to 20. the roles of chairman and chief executive officer are separated and their responsibilities are clearly established.
the chairman is responsible for the leadership and workings of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness, and the chief executive officer, together with the executive directors are responsible for the implementation of strategy and policies and the day to day decision making and administration.
the Board meets at least ten times per annum.
During 2008 the number of Board and committee meetings with individual attendances was as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Maarten Henderson 14 4 2 3 Hubert Aulich 14 4 2 3 iain Dorrity 14 4 2 3 peter Finnegan 14 4 2 3 John sleeman 14 4 2 3 Nonexecutive directors.
the Board receives appropriate and timely information and the directors are free to seek any further information they consider necessary.
All directors have access to advice from the Group secretary and independent professionals at the Groups expense.
Appropriate training is available for new directors and other directors as necessary.
Dr peter Finnegan was the Group secretary during the year and was responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters, ensuring Board procedures were followed and applicable rules and regulations were complied with.
Matthew Wethey replaced Dr peter Finnegan as both Group and company secretary on 4 February 2009.
18 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 coRpoRAte GoVeRNANce stAteMeNt coNtiNUeD BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED the Board comprises the nonexecutive chairman, one other nonexecutive director and three executive directors.
Brief biographical details of all members of the Board are set out on page 11 and further information concerning the appointments are set out in the Directors Report.
John sleeman is the recognised senior independent Director to whom concerns may be conveyed.
the nonexecutive directors bring additional experience and knowledge and are independent of management and any business or other relationship that could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
this provides a balance whereby an individual or small group cannot dominate the Boards decision making.
the executive directors have entered into contracts with the company that may be terminated with twelve months notice by either party and the nonexecutive directors have entered into arrangement for an initial three year period from the date of listing on the London stock exchange subject to six months notice in writing from either party.
the Board has established a separate nomination committee, comprising the nonexecutive directors, which is responsible for making recommendations for appointments to the Board and also senior management appointments.
Formal procedures appropriate to the size of the business are in place for performance evaluation of the Board and its committees.
they include objective setting and review with the use of an external facilitator.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION the Board engaged Dr tracy Long of Boardroom Review to carry out an external independent Board effectiveness Review to assess the quality of the Boards decision making, its overall contribution and value to the longterm health of the Group, and its preparation for future challenges.
the review was conducted through the use of a confidential questionnaire, onetoone interviews, Board observation and a review of relevant papers, and covered a variety of aspects associated with the Board and audit committee effectiveness.
this review took place during January and February 2009 and Dr Longs report was presented to the Board as a whole for discussion.
the review concluded that the Board was operating in an effective manner.
it identified a number of significant strengths including the directors good understanding of the Group, its marketplace and external environment.
it also identified some areas where improvements could be made to improve longer term effectiveness.
these focus primarily on continued efforts to improve the quality of information provided to the Board, to understand changing internal and external dynamics, to improve the collective decision making process, and develop the governance process which supports the Board.
the Board effectiveness Review specifically considered the chairmans performance and found that the chairman operated effectively in his role.
the performance of individual directors is evaluated by the chairman.
Following the review process, the chairman concluded that each director continues to make an effective contribution to the work of the Board, is well prepared and informed concerning items to be considered by the Board, has a good understanding of the Groups businesses and that their commitment to the role remains strong.
the nomination and remuneration committees each also held an evaluation of their work and effectiveness during the year, the results of which were reported to the Board by the respective committee chairmen.
the reviews concluded that each committee was operating in an effective manner.
Dr Long is scheduled to evaluate the performance of the nomination and remuneration committees during the third quarter in 2009.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS the Board values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the Groups strategy and performance, Board membership and quality of management.
the Annual General Meeting is used to communicate with investors and documents are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
the chairmen of the audit committee and remuneration committee are available to answer relevant questions.
separate resolutions are proposed on each substantial issue so that they can be given proper consideration and there is a resolution to receive and consider the Annual Report and financial statements.
the Group counts all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, after it has been dealt with by a show of hands.
the chief executive officer and chief Financial officer maintain a regular programme of visits and presentations to major institutional shareholders both in the UK and overseas.
the chairman and Dr Aulich are also involved in the programme.
the company aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment in all its reports to the public and to regulators.
Key announcements, financial reports and other information about the Group can be found on the Groups website at www.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the Directors Remuneration Report and details of the activities of the remuneration committee are on pages 23 to 26. it sets out the Groups policy and the full details of all elements of the remuneration package of each individual director.
19 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 NOMINATION COMMITTEE the nomination committee of the Board comprises the nonexecutive directors and is chaired by Maarten Henderson.
the chief executive officer, the chief Financial officer, other directors and external advisors may be invited to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
the terms of reference of the nomination committee are available to members of the public upon request and are also available on the Groups website at www.
the nomination committee meets not less than twice a year and is required to report formally to the Board on its proceedings.
the main responsibilities of the nomination committee are to: b regularly review the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board compared to its current position and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: b give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future: b be responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: b before appointment is made by the Board, evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and in the light of this evaluation prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: b keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, both executive and nonexecutive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace: b keep up to date and fully informed about strategic issues and commercial changes affecting the Group and the market in which it operates: b review annually the time required from nonexecutive directors.
performance evaluation should be used to assess whether the nonexecutive directors are spending enough time to fulfill their duties: and b ensure that on appointment to the Board, nonexecutive directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside Board meetings.
the nomination committee is also required to make recommendation to the Board concerning: b formulating plans for succession for both executive and nonexecutive directors and in particular for the key roles of chairman and chief executive officer: b suitable candidates for the role of senior independent Director: b membership of the audit and remuneration committees, in consultation with the chairmen of those committees: b the reappointment of any nonexecutive director at the conclusion of their specified term of office having given due regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in the light of the knowledge, skills and experience required: b the reelection by shareholders of any director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the companys Articles of Association having due regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in the light of the knowledge, skills and experience required: b any matters relating to the continuation in office of any director at any time including the suspension or termination of service of an executive director as an employee of the company subject to the provisions of the law and their service contract: and b the appointment of any director to executive or other office other than to the positions of chairman and chief executive officer.
ACCOUNTABILITY the Board presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects in all interim and other price sensitive public reports, reports to regulators and information required to be presented by statute.
the responsibilities of the directors as regards the financial statements are described on page 16 and that of the auditor on page 27.
A statement on going concern appears on page 15.
20 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 coRpoRAte GoVeRNANce stAteMeNt coNtiNUeD AUDIT COMMITTEE the audit committee of the Board comprises the nonexecutive directors and is chaired by John sleeman.
the chief executive officer, the chief Financial officer, other directors and the external auditor may be invited to attend audit committee meetings as and when appropriate.
the terms of reference of the audit committee are available to members of the public upon request and are also available on the Groups website at www.
the audit committee meets not less than three times a year and is required to report formally to the Board on its proceedings.
the audit committee is responsible for reviewing the scope and findings of the auditors work on audit and nonaudit issues, to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group including the interim and Annual Reports prior to their publication, to review and challenge where necessary the application of the Groups accounting policies and any changes to the financial reporting requirements.
the audit committee also plays an important part in reviewing the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management systems which are described below.
the audit committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
the audit committee ensures that these arrangements allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action.
As a result the Group published the Whistleblowing policy on its website at www.
the audit committee reviews the terms of engagement with the external auditor and ensures that the external auditor is independent via the segregation of audit related work from other accounting functions and has referenced fees with similar auditors.
the audit committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment of the external auditor.
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS the Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining a sound system of internal controls and risk management systems and for reviewing its effectiveness.
the internal controls and risk management systems are designed to meet the particular needs of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed and by its very nature provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the internal controls and risk management systems were in place for the period under review up to the date of approving the accounts.
there is an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the risks facing the business.
the entire system of internal controls and risk management systems was reviewed during the year.
this review has been undertaken in accordance with guidance published by the institute of chartered Accountants in england and Wales.
the key procedures, which exist to provide effective internal controls and risk management systems, are as follows: b clear limits of authority: b annual revenue, cash flow and capital forecasts, reviewed regularly during the year, monthly monitoring of management accounts and capital expenditure reported to the Board, quarterly and half year revenue comparisons with forecasts: b financial controls and procedures: b clear guidelines for capital expenditure and disposals, including defined levels of authority: b monthly meetings of the executive directors to authorise significant transactions: b an audit committee, which approves audit plans and published financial information and reviews reports from external auditors arising from the audit and dealing with significant control matters raised: b regular Board meetings to continuously monitor any areas of concern: b annual review of risks and internal controls: and b annual review of compliance with the combined code.
the Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided that the size of the Group does not justify it at present.
However, it will keep the decision under annual review.
the Board has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management for the financial year ended 31 December 2008 and the period up to date of approval of the financial statements.
By order of the Board MATTHEW WETHEY GROUP SECRETARY 25 March 2009
