REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors pension benefits The board is committed to meeting the standards of good corporate governance set out in the Combined Code the Code on corporate Up to 31st May 2008, the executive directors participated in a defined benefit pension arrangement.
Benefits in respect of each executive governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006.
This report, together with the report on directors remuneration director are given in the table below: describes how the board applied the Code during the year under review.
Gross increase in total Value of net Value of Value of total Directors increase accrued accrued increase in accrued accrued change in The board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, monitoring its business objectives and maintaining a system of effective in accrued pension net pension at accrual over pension at pension at value during corporate governance.
pension of inflation a 31.05.08 period b 31.05.07 31.05.08 period c The board of directors has ten members comprising the Chairman, the chief executive, four other executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The names of the directors together with their biographical details are set out in the report of the directors.
The differing roles of the Chairman and chief executive are acknowledged.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the running of the board and ensuring that it A J Green 17,870 10,373 191,406 138,000 2,358,000 2,944,000 565,000 is supplied in a timely manner with sufficient information to enable it to discharge its duties.
The chief executive is responsible for coordinating G A Kanellis 58,980 51,687 227,792 415,000 1,157,000 1,937,000 756,000 the running of the business and implementing Group strategy.
The executive directors service contracts and the letters setting out the terms A G Calder 23,420 16,106 192,735 266,000 2,746,000 3,457,000 688,000 of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys registered office during normal business hours C G Davis 8,723 8,298 18,561 64,000 78,000 179,000 84,000 and at the annual general meeting.
B H Leigh 16,431 13,787 77,639 76,000 317,000 515,000 183,000 J Pantelireis 11,590 7,352 109,694 84,000 1,133,000 1,470,000 322,000 The non-executive directors are all considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr D W Lewis is a former partner of Addleshaw Goddard, which act notes: as legal advisors to the company.
Mr Lewis does not and has not participated in any way in the provision of services by Addleshaw Goddard to 1.
Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year and salary PZ Cussons.
In addition, in order that his independence is not compromised, if at any time the board or a committee of the board is at 31st May 2008. considering any matter concerning Addleshaw Goddard, it has been agreed that Mr Lewis will withdraw from that meeting until such matters have been dealt with.
Mr Lewis is the senior independent non-executive director and in this capacity he is available to shareholders if they 2.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 9.3 of guidance note GN11 issued by the Board of Actuarial Standards.
have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, chief executive or finance director has failed to resolve or for which 3.
The value of net increase b represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption such contact is inappropriate.
that service terminated at the year end.
It is based on the accrued pension increase a after deducting the directors contribution.
The board has a documented schedule of matters reserved for its decision, including approval of the Groups strategy, annual budgets, material 4.
The change in the transfer value c includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company agreements and major capital expenditure and acquisitions, the approval of financial arrangements, and the monitoring of performance, health, and directors, such as gilt yield movements.
It is calculated after deducting the directors contribution.
safety and environmental matters and risk management procedures.
The board met formally four times during the year and will meet further as necessary to consider specific matters.
Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
All directors communicate with each other on a regular basis and board papers are prepared and issued prior to each board meeting to enable 6.
The total accrued pension as at 31st May 2008 and the value of accrued pension at 31st May 2007 and 31st May 2008 shown for Mr Calder directors to give due consideration to all matters in advance of the meeting.
Directors can take independent professional advice where includes benefits resulting from transfers into the plan.
necessary at the companys expense and have access to the services of the company secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board 7.
The company provides unfunded, unapproved pension benefits for Messrs Calder, Leigh and Davis as their benefits would have been procedures and all applicable rules and regulations are followed.
During the year, the company maintained liability insurance for its directors subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap, introduced by the Finance Act 1989 had the earnings cap not been abolished by the Finance and officers.
The funded benefits payable to these directors remain subject to a scheme specific earnings cap, which increases each year and There is a formal induction process for directors including visits to principal sites and meetings with operating management.
Directors may is calculated in a similar manner to the abolished statutory earnings cap.
take additional training where necessary as part of their continuing development at the expense of the company.
Messrs Pantelireis and Kanellis are former members of the expatriate pension scheme operated by the company and additional benefits A formal review of the board and board committee performance is carried out annually.
The Chairmans performance is reviewed by the are provided through that scheme, as their benefits would have been subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap, introduced by the Finance non-executive directors led by the senior independent director and takes into account the views of the executive directors.
The performance Act 1989 had the earnings cap not been abolished by the Finance Act 2004. of the non-executive directors is evaluated by the Chairman, in consultation with the executive directors.
The closure of the defined benefit pension schemes at 31st May 2008 triggered a change in approach for calculating the benefits for executive directors performance with guidance from the Chairman and the chief executive except in the case of the chief executives Mr Kanellis.
Previously pension was being uniformly accrued over all his possible working lifetime but the closure meant that the appropriate performance where it is reviewed by the Chairman and the remuneration committee.
The directors submit themselves for election at the calculation reverted to a formula based on past service and accrual rate.
The change in approach means that the pension at the beginning of annual general meeting following their appointment and thereafter by rotation in line with the Code and the companys Articles of Association.
the year increased from 85,447 to 168,813 and the figures are based on this re-calculated pension at the beginning of the year.
The review process in 2008 concluded that all directors continue to contribute effectively and with proper commitment, devoting adequate time to carry out their duties.
Service contracts The board has established a number of standing committees to which various matters are delegated according to defined terms of reference.
Executive directors have one year rolling service contracts.
No executive director, including those proposed for re-election, has a service The terms of reference of the committees are available, on request, from the registered office of the company and will also be available at contract with a notice period in excess of one year or containing any provision for pre-determined compensation on termination exceeding the annual general meeting.
one years salary and benefits in kind.
Non executive directors do not have service contracts but are appointed for initial periods of three years, normally renewable on a similar basis.
The present letters of appointment for Mr Lewis and Mr Steel, Professor Arnold and Mr Heale will expire on 31st May 2010, 30th September 2008, 31st December 2009 and 31st December 2010 respectively.
By order of the board of directors J T J Steel 29th July 2008 42 Annual Report 2008 Financial StatementS Financial StatementS Annual Report 2008 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED nomination committee Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee The nomination committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the board and identifying and Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of recommending appropriate candidates for membership of the board when vacancies arise.
The committee members are Mr A J Green meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings committee Chairman, Mr G A Kanellis and the four independent non-executive directors, Professor J A Arnold, Mr S J N Heale, Mr D W Lewis held attended held attended held attended held attended and Mr J T J Steel.
A J Green 4 4 n a n a n a n a 1 1 In considering an appointment the nomination committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the board and prepares a A G Calder 4 4 n a n a n a n a n a n a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
External search agencies or open advertising will be used G A Kanellis 4 4 n a n a n a n a 1 1 where this is appropriate.
Short-listed candidates will then be invited to interview with members of the committee and, if recommended by C G Davis 4 4 n a n a n a n a n a n a the committee, will be invited to meet other board members before any decision is taken relating to the appointment.
B H Leigh 4 4 n a n a n a n a n a n a J Pantelireis 4 4 n a n a n a n a n a n a Remuneration committee D W Lewis 4 4 4 4 4 4 1 1 The remuneration committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of the Chairman, J A Arnold 4 4 4 4 4 4 1 1 executive directors and senior executives, which the board as a whole is responsible for approving.
The committee members are the four S J N Heale 2 2 2 2 2 2 independent non-executive directors, Professor J A Arnold, Mr S J N Heale, Mr D W Lewis and Mr J T J Steel committee Chairman.
Once J T J Steel 4 4 4 4 4 4 1 1 approved, the remuneration committee is responsible for evaluating the performance and determining specific remuneration packages J D M Smith 4 4 4 3 4 4 1 1 for the Chairman and each executive director.
The Chairman and executive directors are responsible for the agreement of non-executive directors remuneration.
Mr S J N Heale did not attend the meetings held prior to his appointment to the board on 1st January 2008. audit committee n a indicates that the director is not a member of the committee.
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing, on behalf of the board, the Groups accounting and financial policies and its disclosure Directors do not participate in meetings when matters relating to them are being discussed.
It is also responsible for overseeing all matters associated with the appointments, terms, remuneration and performance of the external auditors and for reviewing the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
These responsibilities Risk management committee are discharged at the audit committee meetings and through regular reports from the internal audit function.
The audit committee comprises The risk management committee is responsible for identifying significant risks and ensuring, where possible, that action is taken to mitigate the four independent non-executive directors, Professor J A Arnold committee Chairman, Mr S J N Heale, Mr D W Lewis and Mr J T J Steel these risks.
This is achieved by an ongoing review which includes identifying all risks faced by the Group and assessing those risks, and and meets regularly with the external auditors.
Professor J A Arnold, a qualified chartered accountant, brings recent and relevant financial ensuring that appropriate control measures are put in place.
Plans are developed and implemented to eliminate, reduce or transfer these experience to the audit committee.
The committee is also responsible for reviewing the risk management and control process within the Group.
As mentioned, one of the duties of the audit committee is to make recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment of the external The committee comprises senior management from within the business and receives input from professional advisers.
It met twice during auditors.
A number of factors are taken into account by the committee in assessing whether to recommend the auditors for reappointment.
the year and regularly reports to the board.
In addition, the board undertakes annually a formal review of the risk management process and These include the quality of the reports provided to the audit committee and the board and the level of understanding demonstrated of the the performance of the risk management committee.
The Group has a policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the auditors.
The auditors are permitted to provide non-audit services Remuneration that are not and are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor independence, providing they have the skill, competence and integrity to Details of directors remuneration are set out in the report on directors remuneration.
carry out the work and are considered to be the most appropriate to undertake such work in the best interests of the Group.
Activities that may be perceived to be in conflict with the role of the external auditors must be submitted to the committee for approval prior to engagement, Going concern regardless of the amounts involved.
All assignments are monitored by the committee.
After undertaking an appropriate review, the directors believe that the Group and the company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the financial financial statements.
attendance at meetings The number of scheduled meetings of the board excluding such ad hoc meetings as were necessary during the year to address specific matters arising and of each of the audit, remuneration and nomination committee during the year ended 31st May 2008, together with a record of the attendance of the current directors who are their respective members, at full board meetings and meetings of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees during the year ended 31st May 2008 is detailed in the following table: 44 Annual Report 2008 Financial StatementS Financial StatementS Annual Report 2008 45
