   This part of the Annual Report, together with the Report of the Directors independence Remuneration Committee on pages 58 to 64, describes how QinetiQ Of the current Directors of the Company, the Board considers Sir has applied the principles contained in the revised Combined Code David Lees, Nick Luff, Dr Peter Fellner, Noreen Doyle and Admiral on Corporate Governance published in June 2006 the Combined Code.
Edmund P. Giambastiani to be independent of QinetiQs executive management and free from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Combined Code judgement.
Of the remaining Non-executive Directors, the Board On appointment as Chairman in 2005, Sir John Chisholm was not considers that both Sir John Chisholm and Colin Balmer are not regarded as independent under the Combined Code as he was independent for Combined Code purposes, Sir John on the basis formerly QinetiQs Chief Executive Officer.
The Combined Code that he was formerly QinetiQs Chief Executive Officer and recommends that a companys chairman should be independent on exercised certain executive responsibilities until 1 October 2006, appointment, and that its Chief Executive Officer should not become and Mr Balmer as he is a nominee of the MOD, which is the largest chairman of the same company.
The Board considers that departure shareholder on QinetiQs share register.
from the Combined Code in this area is appropriate and gave its reasons for non-compliance both in the prospectus published as part of the Companys Initial Public Offering IPO in 2006 and the 2007 In February 2008, Admiral Edmund P. Giambastiani replaced Annual Report.
George Tenet as an independent Non-executive Director.
Admiral Giambastiani has extensive knowledge of the US Defence and Security domain which will enhance the operation of the Board Save as stated above, QinetiQ has complied with the provisions of as QinetiQ continues its strategy of growing its US platform in the the Combined Code throughout the last financial year.
Defence and Security Technology sector.
Admiral Giambastiani was selected through an open process with the assistance of an The Board governance, processes and systems international search and selection consultant.
Composition of the Board Sir John Chisholm is the Non-executive Chairman of QinetiQ.
The Based on the above, the Board considers that over half of its roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, with their members were independent Non-executive Directors throughout responsibilities having been clearly articulated by the Board in the last financial year.
The Chairman is responsible for the effective operation of the Board and ensures that all Directors are enabled and encouraged to play their full part in Board activities.
The Chief Executive Officer is Board structure responsible to the Board for directing and promoting the profitable The Board considers that the skills and experience of its individual operation and development of the Group consistent with enhancing members, particularly in the areas of UK defence and security, the long-term shareholder value, which includes the day-to-day commercialisation of innovative technologies, corporate finance and management of the Group, formulating, communicating and mergers and acquisitions, have been fundamental in the pursuit of executing Group strategy, and the implementation of Board policies.
QinetiQs growth strategies as described in the Business Review section of this Annual Report in the past year.
In addition, the quoted company experience available to members of the Board in a The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman, six Non-executive variety of industry sectors and international markets has also been Directors and two Executive Directors, namely the Chief Executive 1 invaluable to the Company as it seeks to penetrate new markets and Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, with the objective of geographic territories.
achieving a balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors.
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence of character and Operation of the Board integrity of all the Directors and the experience and skills which they The Board is responsible for managing the Groups operations and bring to their duties, which prevents any individual or small group in this capacity determines the Groups strategic and investment from dominating the Boards decision making.
The Board also monitors the performance of the Groups senior management team and organises its business to have regular interaction with key members of the Group, including those based The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is Sir David Lees.
The following is a summary of the approach taken Sir David is also Deputy Chairman of the Board and serves as an by the Board to corporate governance in the financial year ended additional point of contact for shareholders should they feel that 31 March 2008: their concerns are not being addressed through the normal channels.
Sir David is, furthermore, available to fellow Non-executive Directors, n either individually or collectively, should they wish to discuss matters The Board has agreed a schedule which contemplates eight Board of concern in a forum that does not include the Chairman, the meetings being held in each financial year.
Members of the Board Executive Directors or the senior management of QinetiQ.
are also invited to attend a dinner on the occasion of each Board meeting, which assists in the process of relationship building and ensuring that key strategic initiatives are thoroughly discussed.
In The Shareholder Relationship Agreement entered into between the last financial year the Board met on ten separate occasions: QinetiQ and MOD at IPO entitles the MOD to nominate one two of these meetings were unscheduled and were convened to Non-executive Director to the Board, for so long as the MOD does allow the Board to consider the merits of acquisition opportunities not dispose of any further ordinary shares in the Company, and in both the US and Australia.
The Board intends to hold two of its thereafter, for so long as it holds at least 10% of QinetiQs issued scheduled meetings in the US in each financial year, to give ordinary share capital.
members of the Board an opportunity to meet with senior management in the QinetiQ North America region.
It is proposed 1 Doug Webb, the Chief Financial Officer of the Company throughout the financial year ended 31 March 2008, announced on 17 January 2008 his intention to take up the position of Chief Financial Officer with The London Stock Exchange Group plc.
Mr Webb will resign as a Director of the Company on 30 May 2008.
Following the announcement made on 21 May 2008, we anticipate that David Mellors will be appointed as Chief Financial Officer from the end of August 2008.
52  5june2008  PROOF5 final............. proofreaderfinal............. a cmanager GOveRnAnCe   that a further two Board meetings will be held at QinetiQ UK sites impacting the Group, from which the five-year corporate plan is each year to provide members of the Board with greater generated.
A key part of this process involves the Board having opportunity to understand the operational dynamics of the EMEA the opportunity to question the sector heads and the Executive business at first hand.
Directors in relation to the formulation of the corporate plan at sector level and the impact of these plans on the Group strategy n as a whole.
The Non-executive Directors also have an opportunity The Board receives written reports from the CEO and CFO each to meet with other members of staff within the QinetiQ Group month, together with a separate report on investor relations including, but not limited to, other members of the senior which is prepared in consultation with QinetiQs brokers and management team at lunchtime events, which are scheduled to a report produced by the Company Secretary on key legal and coincide with Board meetings.
During the last financial year, two regulatory issues affecting the Group.
The Board also considers such events were held in Farnborough and Washington DC and reports from the respective Chairmen of the Committees of the the Board also had the opportunity to review QinetiQs LTPA Board at the next scheduled Board meeting following the date on operations at Boscombe Down.
which each such Committee Meeting was held.
The CEOs monthly report addresses the key strategic initiatives impacting the Group n since the last meeting of the Board, and focuses in particular on The Board operates through a comprehensive set of processes, the strategic progress of each of the EMEA, QNA and Ventures which define the schedule of matters to be considered by the businesses.
Other key areas of focus include health, safety, Board and its Committees during the annual business cycle, the environmental, employee and organisational issues, the status of level of delegated authorities both financial and non-financial key account management customer relationship initiatives and available to both Executive Directors and other layers of the pipeline of potential acquisitions, disposals and investments.
management within the business, and QinetiQs Business Ethics, Of particular significance in the last financial year was the Risk Management and Health, Safety and Environmental consideration given to a number of acquisition opportunities, processes.
The Board also has a clearly articulated set of matters which culminated in the completion of the Boldon James which are specifically reserved to it for consideration, which transaction in the UK, the Automatika, Applied Perception, include reviewing the annual budgets, raising indebtedness, 3H Technology, ITS and Pinnacle CSI acquisitions in the US, granting security over Group assets, approving Group strategy and and QinetiQs entry into the Australian Defence consultancy the corporate plan, approval of the annual and interim report and business through the acquisitions of Ball Solutions, Novare and accounts, approval of significant investment, bid, acquisition and Aerostructures.
The Board also oversaw the restructuring activity divestment transactions, approval of Human Resources policies in the EMEA region during the second half of the financial year, including pension arrangements, reviewing material litigation together with the creation of a new Technology Venture fund and monitoring the overall system of internal controls, including in collaboration with Coller Capital, and the programme of work risk management.
for progressing the contractual arrangements for the Defence Training Rationalisation programme conducted through Metrix.
n QinetiQ has been a member of the UK Defence Industry AntiAny proposed acquisitions, disposals and investments which corruption Forum since 2006, the primary objective of which is to exceed the CEOs delegated authority are considered by the Board promote the prevention of corruption in the international defence in the context of the CEOs report.
In furtherance of this objective, QinetiQ has enhanced its existing internal procedures which are designed not only to n The CFOs monthly report addresses the financial performance and comply with, but to exceed, international best practice in this area.
outlook of the Group and each of the sectors, both on a monthly This is facilitated by the engagement of an independent, and year-to-date basis, with the key performance indicators internationally recognised organisation known as TRACE analysed being those identified on page 10 of the CEO review.
Transparent Agents and Contracting Entities which conducts The Group Risk Register also forms part of the CFOs report on anti-bribery due diligence reviews and compliance training on a quarterly basis and highlights the dozen or so principal risks behalf of the Group, particularly in circumstances in which QinetiQ capable of having a material impact at a Group level, the is planning to engage third-party agents overseas.
materiality of each risk, the assumptions underlying each such risk, the actions required to manage the risk and the relevant key Performance of the Board performance indicators for each headline risk.
The risks covered by During the financial year ended 31 March 2008, the Board repeated the Group Risk Register cover a range of financial and non-financial the self-assessment process first used in the previous year to items, based on the Principal risks and uncertainties identified on evaluate the performance of the Board, its Committees and pages 42 to 44 of the Business Review.
The CFO also reports on a individual Directors.
This evaluation process was based on a detailed monthly basis, as part of his investor relations report, on the key questionnaire, covering issues ranging from value creation and issues raised by shareholders, potential investors and other important strategic planning through to the operation of the Board its stakeholders on QinetiQs performance and key strategic initiatives.
The evaluation process was led by the Chairman, who supplemented the detailed responses derived n On at least two occasions each year, one of the sector heads will from the self-assessment questionnaire with a series of meetings give a presentation to the Board on the key strategic, operational held individually with each of the Directors, at which the and performance issues impacting their business.
The Board also performance of the Board as a whole, as well as the Committees and receives updates from the CEOs key functional reports on an as individual Board members were discussed.
In addition, Sir David Lees, needed basis, on issues such as Human Resources, Real Estate and in his capacity as the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, Pensions, throughout the financial year.
The Board devotes one met with individual members of the Board to evaluate the entire meeting each year to consider strategy and planning issues performance of the Chairman.
The evaluation process revealed that, 53  5june2008  PROOF5 final............. proofreaderfinal............. a cmanager   in virtually all areas, the operation of the Board and its Committees Each serving member of the Board will be put forward for re-election had improved in the past 12 months.
The Board concluded from the at the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2008. evaluation exercise that its business is conducted in a positive and open manner, with the Board possessing the requisite skills and Committees of Directors diversity necessary to fulfil its leadership role and having a detailed The Board has established four principal committees, being the understanding of its stewardship responsibilities.
The Board agreed Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations that in the financial year ending 31 March 2009, and once every Committee and the Compliance Committee, each of which operates three years thereafter, it would conduct the evaluation process within written terms of reference approved by the Board, details of through an external facilitator.
which are set out in the Investor Relations section of QinetiQs website www.
Each Chairman of the Board Committees As a separate exercise, the Chairman has held various meetings reports on the key issues discussed, and decisions taken, at the next with the Non-executive Directors in the last financial year, without meeting of the Board following the Committee meeting in question.
the Executive Directors present, in order to review both the operation of the Board and the performance of the Executive Details of each of these Committees are summarised below.
In addition, the Executive Directors were appraised as part of the annual salary review process, which was overseen by Audit Committee the Remuneration Committee.
Each member of the Audit Committee is an independent Nonexecutive Director.
The Committee is chaired by Nick Luff, who has Directors induction, training and information been a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England All newly appointed Directors participate in an induction programme, and Wales since 1991, and the Board considers him to have recent which is tailored to meet their specific needs in relation to and relevant financial experience given his former roles as CFO of information on the Group.
This induction programme includes an P&O and P&O Princess Cruises and his current position as Finance induction pack, which is refreshed to ensure it contains the most Director of Centrica.
The other members of the Committee are up-to-date information available on the Group.
Dr Peter Fellner and Noreen Doyle.
The Audit Committee meets as necessary and at least four times a year.
During the financial year All Directors are encouraged to visit QinetiQs principal sites and to ended 31 March 2008, the Committee met on five occasions.
The meet a wide cross-section of QinetiQs employee base.
During the last external auditors have the right to request that a meeting of the financial year, the Board held two of its meetings at QinetiQ facilities Audit Committee be convened.
During the past financial year, the located in the Washington DC area, which allowed members of the Committee met with QinetiQs external auditors on two separate Board to better appreciate the dynamics of QinetiQs newly acquired occasions without Executive Directors present to discuss the audit ITS and Analex businesses.
The Board also held one of its meetings at process, and the Committee Chairman also met with the Group Head QinetiQs Boscombe Down site, during which a tour was undertaken of Internal Audit on the same basis.
The Group Chairman, Chief of the LTPA facilities located at the site, which provided members of Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, the Board with exposure to a range of Managed Services capabilities Group Head of Internal Audit, the Internal Audit Manager and a in the fixed wing rotary aircraft and environmental sectors.
representative of the external auditors normally attend Audit Committee meetings except where not permitted.
Training is also available to the Board on key business issues or developments in policy, regulation or legislation on an as needed During the last financial year, consideration of the audit process for basis.
By way of example, the Board was provided with a detailed the full year and interim results represented the principal area of presentation on recent changes in legislation and corporate practice focus for the Audit Committee.
The Committee also continued to as a result of the introduction of parts of the Companies Act 2006 assess the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function though the and amendments to the Listing Rules, with particular emphasis on review of a balanced scorecard process designed to measure the the clarification of the law relating to directors duties.
Each of the achievement of Internal Audit objectives, which also resulted in the Directors has access to the services of the Company Secretary, and approval of a detailed 12-month work programme for the function.
there is also an agreed procedure for the Directors to seek In the context of the Groups North American business, the independent advice at the Companys expense.
Committee held its first meeting with the newly appointed Head of Internal Audit for QNA in the last financial year, which included a review of the application of internal controls in respect of the proxy Directors responsibilities regime and considered KPMGs approach to auditing the newly Statements explaining the Directors responsibilities for preparing acquired US businesses.
As part of its regular review of internal the Groups financial statements and the auditors responsibilities controls, the Committee considered in detail the operations of for reporting on those statements are set out on pages 68 and 69.
QinetiQs Treasury function, and paid particular attention to those areas of internal audit review which had failed to achieve at least Other Directors information a satisfactory rating.
As part of the regular reporting process, the Details of Executive Directors service contracts and the NonCommittee also reviewed the activities of the tax and insurance executive Directors letters of appointment are set out in the Report functions, as well as overseeing the level of KPMGs audit fees.
The of the Remuneration Committee.
Copies of Directors service Committee has also been involved in the recruitment process to contracts and letters of appointment will be available for inspection replace the Group Head of Internal Audit, Graham Coley, who retired at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
In October 2006, Sir John Chisholm, was appointed Chairman of the Medical Research Council, a role for which he does not take a fee.
54  5june2008  PROOF5 final............. proofreaderfinal............. a cmanager GOveRnAnCe   In order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the planning to cover vacancies arising over a two to five-year timeframe.
Committee ensures that any other advisory consulting services The Committee also oversaw the selection process for a new provided by the auditors do not conflict with their statutory audit independent Non-executive Director with experience of the US responsibilities and are conducted through entirely separate working Defence and Security sector, which culminated in the appointment of teams: such advisory and or consulting services only generally cover Admiral Edmund P. Giambastiani to the Board in February 2008.
The regulatory reporting, tax and mergers and acquisitions work.
Any Committee was responsible for initiating this recruitment process, non-audit services conducted by the auditors require the consent of using external recruitment agents, and retained responsibility for the Chief Financial Officer or the Chairman of the Audit Committee finalising the terms of Admiral Giambastianis engagement through before being initiated, with any such services exceeding 50,000 in to completion of his appointment.
The Committee also initiated the value requiring the consent of the Audit Committee as a whole.
In recruitment process for a new Chief Financial Officer to replace Doug the last financial year, the only non-audit activity conducted by Webb, who announced on 17 January 2008 his intention to take up KPMG on behalf of QinetiQ which exceeded this 50,000 threshold the position of Chief Financial Officer with The London Stock related to the provision of M&A and taxation advisory services to the Exchange Group plc.
Group, which the Committee concluded did not create any conflict of interest issues which might compromise the independence of KPMG Compliance Committee audit work.
It is also QinetiQs policy that no KPMG employee may be QinetiQs breadth of technical knowledge and its depth of appointed into a senior position within the QinetiQ Group without understanding of the defence operating environment allows it the prior approval of the Chief Financial Officer.
The cost of non-audit to serve the interests of the MOD in two distinct ways.
It is able work undertaken by the auditors was reviewed by the Committee on to partner with other manufacturers in the defence supply chain to several occasions during the last financial year: this process allows develop and deliver capabilities that give an operational advantage the Committee to take corrective action if it believes that there is a to the armed forces and also to provide advice to the MOD during risk of the auditors independence being undermined through the the entire procurement cycle.
However, these distinct offerings may lead to conflict of interest, KPMG has been the Companys auditors since 2003.
The members of which, if unmanaged, could bring into question the MODs ability to the Audit Committee have declared themselves satisfied with the be able to rely on impartial advice during any competitive evaluation performance of KPMG as the Companys auditors in the last financial of a procurement where QinetiQ wishes to operate on both the buy year.
There has been a rotation of KPMGs lead audit partner during and the supply sides.
To give MOD customers confidence that the financial year ended 31 March 2008: it is anticipated that he will QinetiQ is able to perform these activities, QinetiQ is required by its continue in this role for a maximum term of five years.
Articles of Association to implement a Compliance Regime, which was established on its creation out of DERA.
Central to this Regime is Remuneration Committee the requirement for QinetiQ to seek permission from the MOD prior Each member of the Remuneration Committee is an independent to providing commercial defence services to others where there is Non-executive Director.
The Committee is chaired by Dr Peter Fellner.
potential for a conflict of interest with the services that QinetiQ The other members of the Remuneration Committee are Sir David provides to the MOD.
The Committee meets as necessary although normally not less than three times a year.
During the financial year In designing the Compliance Regime, the MOD and QinetiQ sought ended 31 March 2008, the Remuneration Committee met on six to achieve a balance between meeting the needs of the procurement occasions.
Although not members of the Committee, the Group customers within the MOD principally Defence Equipment and Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Head of Human Support and the need to allow QinetiQ flexibility to exploit research Resources and the Head of Performance and Reward normally into the supply chain and pursue its planned commercial activities, attend Committee meetings, together with representatives of without compromising the defence or security interests of the UK.
QinetiQs external consultants, Deloitte & Touche LLP, as necessary.
The Compliance Regime is largely self-policing, in that it is applied by Executive Directors are not present when their own remuneration QinetiQ in respect of its activities without extensive intervention or is being discussed.
Since the inception of the Compliance Regime, over 97% of the requests to the MOD to allow QinetiQ to operate on Nominations Committee the supply side of the commercial defence market have been The Nominations Committee consists of the Committee Chairman, approved.
Oversight of the operation of the Regime is provided by Sir David Lees, together with Dr Peter Fellner and Sir John Chisholm.
the Compliance Committee, chaired by Sir David Lees.
Colin Balmer, A majority of the Committee throughout the year were Nona Non-executive Director, is a member of the Committee and the executive Directors.
The Committee meets as necessary and when Group Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Compliance Audit called by its Chair.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2008, Director are also members.
The Board nominates two senior the Committee met formally on one occasion and consulted executives to act as Compliance Implementation Director and informally on several other occasions.
The principal focus of the Committees activities during the financial QinetiQs Compliance Committee meets on four occasions each year year ended 31 March 2008 was to review QinetiQs succession to monitor the operation of the Regime.
It receives a report from the planning processes at both the Executive and Non-executive Director Companys Compliance Implementation Director which describes the level, and for other key management positions within the Group, permissions which have been sought and granted since the last which the Committee considered in terms of the need to plan for meeting of the Committee, and the status of projects where the immediate cover in respect of key roles, as well as succession potential conflicts of interest are being managed.
The Committee 55  5june2008  PROOF5 final............. proofreaderfinal............. a cmanager   also receives, from the Compliance Audit Director, a report on the Communication with shareholders effectiveness of the controls that are in place to ensure that the The Company attaches significant importance to the effectiveness of Regime is operated correctly.
The Committee reviews the systems its communications with shareholders.
During the last financial year, that support the Compliance Regime and those that may impact it, the Company has maintained regular dialogue with institutional directing changes if appropriate.
The Committee is the forum that shareholders and the financial community, which has included would address any issues arising out of QinetiQs failure to comply presentations of the full-year and interim results including investor with the requirements of the Regime.
The Committee has supported road shows held in the UK, Europe and US, regular meetings with the MOD in conducting its own internal audit review of the major shareholders and industry analysts, participation in Compliance Regime during the course of the last financial year.
stockbrokers seminars and investor site visits held at Malvern and Boscombe Down.
In addition, each member of the Board attended the Companys Annual General Meeting in July 2007 and a number A computer-based training package continues to be used to ensure of Non-executive Directors attended key shareholder events in the that all relevant employees have a satisfactory knowledge of the last financial year, including the full-year and interim results operation of the Regime.
For key roles, competence is demonstrated presentations, at which they were available to take questions from by passing a mandatory test annually.
All shareholders and potential shareholders can gain access to the Annual Report, presentations to investors and other The MOD reviews the operation and effectiveness of the Compliance significant information about the QinetiQ Group on the Companys Regime, through its right to have an observer at the Compliance website at www.
Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which During the year, a total of eight new permissions were sought from the Company highlights key business developments during the year the MOD under the Compliance Regime, where potential conflicts and at which shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions.
The of interest were identified by QinetiQ, with one permission request chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Compliance being outstanding from the previous year.
Of these nine requests Committees will be available to answer any questions two were approved, three were not pursued, one was rejected and on the work of the Committees.
The Company confirms that it will three remained outstanding at the end of March 2008.
At the end of send the AGM notice and relevant documentation to all shareholders the year, 27 firewalls were in place, with seven being established and at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
For those 16 being closed down during the year.
Since vesting in 2001, a total shareholders who have elected to receive communications of 110 firewalls have operated with 83 now closed.
No breaches of electronically, notice is given of the availability of documents on the the MOD Compliance Regime have been noted during the year.
Investor Relations section of the Groups website.
All shareholders A firewall is a series of rules and procedures governing written and will be entitled to vote on the resolutions put to the AGM and, to oral communication between staff contributing to products in an ensure that all votes are counted, a poll will be taken on all the MOD competition with industry outside the wall and staff assessing resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
The results of the votes on those products for MOD inside the wall.
the resolutions will be published on the Companys website.
The Compliance Committee also provides oversight of QinetiQs Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with activities that fall within the scope of the Helsinki Protocol covering shareholders rests with the Executive Team, led by the Chief trials involving human volunteers.
Executive Officer, assisted by an investor relations function which reports to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Board is informed on Going concern a regular basis of key shareholder issues, including share price The Directors are of the opinion that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future and have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings April 2007 March 2008 Remuneration Audit Compliance nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Colin Balmer 9 10 4 4 Sir John Chisholm 10 10 4 4 1 1 Noreen Doyle 9 10 6 6 5 5 Dr Peter Fellner 9 10 6 6 5 5 1 1 Sir David Lees 8 10 5 6 3 4 1 1 Graham Love 10 10 4 4 Nick Luff 9 10 5 5 1 George Tenet 4 10 Doug Webb 10 10 2 Edmund P. Giambastiani 1 George Tenet resigned from the Board on 1 February 2008.
2 Admiral Edmund P. Giambastiani was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2008, which followed the date of last Board meeting held in the financial year ended 31 March 2008.
56  5june2008  PROOF5 final............. proofreaderfinal............. a cmanager GOveRnAnCe   performance, the composition of the shareholder register and City increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and The process is informed by the Internal Audit function, which also Non-executive Directors make themselves available to meet with provides a degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the shareholders as required.
Planned corrective actions are independently monitored for their timely completion.
The managers report on risks which are recorded at corporate, sector and divisional Management and control of US subsidiaries level of profit and loss, as well as within all customer-facing projects QinetiQs principal US subsidiaries are currently required by the US and how these are managed on a monthly basis to the QinetiQ National Industrial Security Program to maintain facility security Executive Team and the Board, formally, on a quarterly basis.
clearances and to be insulated from foreign ownership, control or influence.
To comply with these requirements, QinetiQ North America Operations, LLC a wholly-owned subsidiary of QinetiQ in the The QinetiQ Executive Team reviews on a monthly basis the risk US and the holding company for the substantive part of QinetiQs management and control process and considers: North American operations and the US DoD have entered into a proxy agreement that regulates the ownership, management and n the authority, resources and coordination of those involved in the operation of these companies.
Pursuant to this proxy arrangement, identification, assessment and management of significant risks QinetiQ appointed three US citizens holding requisite US security faced by the organisation: clearances as proxy holders to exercise the voting rights of QinetiQ North America Operations, LLCs shares in the US subsidiaries.
The n the response to the significant risks which have been identified by proxy holders are also appointed as directors of the relevant US management and others: the monitoring of reports from Group subsidiaries and, in addition to their powers as directors, have power management: and under the proxy arrangements to exercise all prerogatives of share ownership of QinetiQ North America Operations, LLC.
The proxy n the maintenance of a control environment directed towards the holders agree to perform their role in the best interests of QinetiQ proper management of risk.
North America Operations, LLC and consistent with the national security concerns of the United States.
QinetiQ does not have any The centrally provided internal audit programme is prioritised representation on the boards of the subsidiaries covered by the proxy according to risks identified by the Company and is integrated across agreement and does not have the right to attend board meetings.
all business and functional dimensions, thereby reducing issues of QinetiQ may not remove the proxy holders except for acts of overlap or gaps in coverage.
These risks are identified dynamically gross negligence or wilful misconduct or for breach of the proxy and the Board is involved in this process as well as the QinetiQ agreements with the consent of the US Defense Security Service.
Internal controls The Chief Financial Officer provides to the Board monthly The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal information that includes key performance and risk indicators.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness in safeguarding the Where areas for improvement in the system of internal control are shareholders interests and the Companys assets.
However, such identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by the a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of QinetiQ Executive Team, the Audit Committee and the Compliance failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews, on behalf of the Board, reasonable and not absolute assurance against material the key risks inherent in the business and the system of internal misstatement or loss.
QinetiQ managers are responsible for the control necessary to manage such risks and presents its findings to identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their the Board.
Internal Audit independently reviews the risk identification areas of business, together with the design and operation of suitable and control processes implemented by management and reports to internal controls to ensure effective mitigation.
These risks, which the Audit Committee.
are related to achievement of business objectives, are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal and The Audit Committee also reviews the assurance process, ensuring external events, including control breakdowns, competition, that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level of disruption, regulatory requirements and natural and other assurance required by the Board.
It presents its findings to the Board catastrophes.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control that has been in operation during the A process of hierarchical self-certification has been established financial year ended 31 March 2008.
The Board also routinely within the organisation which provides a documented and auditable challenges the management to ensure that the systems of internal trail of accountability for the operation of the system of internal control are constantly improving to maintain their continuing control.
This process is informed by a rigorous and structured selfeffectiveness.
assessment that addresses all of the guidance cited in the Combined Code.
The process provides for successive assurances to be given at 57  5june2008  PROOF5 final............. proofreaderfinal............. a cmanager
