DIRECTORS REPORTS Corporate governance report for the year ended 31 December 2008 The board remains committed to guiding the strategic and entrepreneurial development of the group and supports the principle of collective responsibility for the success of the company.
The company is incorporated in Jersey, where there is no formal Code relating to corporate governance.
Nevertheless, the board is strongly committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and has therefore decided to adhere, wherever possible, to the provisions of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2006 the Combined Code, in the same way as if the company was incorporated in the United Kingdom.
This report, together with the remuneration committee report and directors report, has been prepared by reference to the Combined Code.
Except as explained below, the company has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2008.
Details relating to the remuneration paid by the group are contained in the report of the remuneration committee which can be found on page 68 of this annual report.
In addition reference to the groups environmental and social responsibility report can be found on page 56.
Every company should be headed by an effective board, which is collectively responsible for the success of the company.
The board remains committed to guiding the strategic and entrepreneurial development of the group and supports the principle of collective responsibility for the success of the company.
The board has reserved, for its sole discretion, the finalisation and adoption of the groups strategic plan, major fiscal policies including treasury and hedging policies, approval of the budget, approval of all mining development and any merger or acquisition.
The board undertook its annual evaluation exercise during the year to measure its own performance as well as those of its committees and extended the format to include the nomination and governance committee.
During the year the board met four times formally and three times at short notice.
Attendance at the meetings was as follows: BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE Number Total Number of number of meetof formal ings at board meetings short meetDirectors Designation attended notice ings P Litard Non-executive chairman 4 3 7 DM Bristow Chief executive officer 4 3 7 GP Shuttleworth Chief financial officer 4 3 7 BH Asher Senior independent director 4 3 7 NP Cole Jr Independent non-executive 4 3 7 CL Coleman Independent non-executive - - - RI Israel Independent non-executive 4 3 7 AL Paverd Independent non-executive 4 3 7 K Voltaire Independent non-executive 4 3 7 J Walden Independent non-executive - - - Messrs Coleman and Walden were appointed to the board on 3 November 2008.
Their first board meeting was in February 2009.
62 | Randgold Resources Where it is deemed appropriate, the chairman meets with the non-executive directors without the presence of the executive directors and during the year meetings were held by the chairman and the non-executive directors.
Appropriate directors and officers insurance cover has been obtained by the company in respect of legal action against the directors.
There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
In accordance with clearly defined parameters, the non-executive chairman, Mr Philippe Litard, is responsible for the leadership of the board and to ensure effective communication exists between the executive and nonexecutive directors.
The CEO, Dr Mark Bristow, has been delegated the authority to manage the day-to-day administration of the group.
A formal job description is in existence and this is reviewed annually by the board and the CEO.
The board should include a balance of executive and non-executive directors and in particular independent non-executive directors such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the boards decision taking.
Currently the board comprises ten members, two executive and eight nonexecutive directors.
The board believes that mining is a long-gestation business and as such justifies a longer period of service for non-executive directors than many industries and that reasonable periods of service are therefore needed for the stability of the board but that new appointments are needed from time to time to add a fresh perspective.
The board monitors compliance with the independence criteria included in the Code and save in certain instances set out below for a periods of service and b award of options and restricted shares, all non-executive directors meet the criteria.
For the reasons set out below the board believes that the non-executive directors are independent.
a Currently Dr Paverd and Messrs Asher and Israel have all served as directors for more than ten years.
The board has considered their objectivity and contributions and believes that these are still independent in character and judgement.
Mr Asher and Dr Paverd have indicated that it is their intention to retire from the board at the next annual general meeting, scheduled for May 2009. b Mr Asher continues to hold options in terms of the companys share options scheme.
These were awarded in 1998 and the board does not believe that this interferes with his independence.
Each of the nonexecutive directors owned shares in the company during the year.
The non-executive directors also received an award of restricted shares in addition to their directors fees.
The board believes that this aligns their interests with those of other shareholders without compromising independence.
Meetings of the boards committees were held regularly.
Where appropriate, the chairman and the executive directors are invited to be in attendance.
Shareholders are referred to the report of the remuneration committee on page 73 for details of directors shareholdings.
The board has not adopted a procedure of requiring directors who have served for more than nine years, to be re-elected on an annual basis.
There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board.
The members of the nomination and governance committee during the year appear on the next page.
Randgold Resources | 63 DIRECTORS REPORTS Corporate governance report continued NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual MEETING ATTENDANCE evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
Number The boards evaluation procedure operates through a of meetings structured self assessment system allowing each director to held and rate the performance of the board and its committees and Members Appointed attended focuses on a number of key areas.
The individual assessments are then scored and the results were tabled at P Litard Chairman 27 October 2006 4 4 the November 2008 board meeting for discussion.
The BH Asher 27 October 2006 4 4 board continues to believe that the exercise is beneficial.
NP Cole Jr 27 October 2007 4 4 It was agreed at the November 2009 meeting that the next CL Coleman 3 November 2008 - board assessment would involve a formal 360o process.
A formal session of the directors also assessed the chairmans In terms of the directors remuneration policy, Mr Litard performance.
receives a fee as the group chairman and Mr Asher receives a fee as senior independent director and therefore no All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular additional payment for services to the committee.
Fees paid intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
The to Mr Cole for service to the nomination and governance board should ensure planned and progressive refreshing of committee for the year were US$10 000, while Mr Colemans the board.
fee of US$1 667 was pro-rated given his date of appointment.
Mr Asher will retire from the board at the companys May In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Jersey 2009 AGM.
Law 1991 and the articles of association, directors are required to submit themselves to re-election.
Any newly During the year the nomination and governance committee appointed director is subject to election by shareholders met on several occasions to consider submissions relating after his her appointment.
Thereafter, by rotation, the entire to possible board candidates and resulting from these board is subject to re-election every three years.
The articles deliberations, which involved a series of interviews, submitted of association specify neither an age limit for directors nor the candidacies of Messrs Coleman and Walden.
After a any restriction about the period of service.
formal process which included meeting with the full board, both gentlemen were elected non-executive directors on Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain 3 November 2008.
In addition, the committee continued to and motivate directors of the quality required to run the review the company succession planning procedure, and company successfully, but a company should avoid paying in particular, strategy and tactics regarding key management.
more than is necessary for this purpose.
A significant This process involves executive and senior management proportion of executive directors remuneration should be within the group.
A nomination and governance committee structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual charter is published on the companys website.
This is dealt with in the report of the remuneration committee.
In accordance with the articles of association, both Messrs Coleman and Walden will be subject to re-election at the There should be a formal and transparent procedure for May 2009 annual general meeting.
developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing In addition to the appointment of directors, the appointment the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director and removal of the company secretary remains a matter for should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
consideration by the board as a whole.
The board should be supplied in a timely manner with The board should present a balanced and understandable information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
it to discharge its duties.
All directors should receive induction The Companies Jersey Law, 1991 and the Combined Code on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh require, and the board acknowledges, that it is responsible their skills and knowledge.
for presenting a balanced and understandable assessment The board continues to operate in a field which is technically of the companys and the groups position and prospects.
complex and directors are provided with information which This extends to the preparation and publication of the annual enables them to fulfil their duties effectively.
Visits to the report and any other release of information, price sensitive mines, branch offices and technical presentations provided or otherwise.
by management are used to further their knowledge in various areas of specialisation.
It is the duty of the company secretary The financial statements set out in this report have been to ensure an effective flow of information between the board, prepared by management under the direction of the board its committees and the management of the company and in accordance with International Financial Reporting the board has full access to his services.
The directors, and Standards and are based on accounting policies that the especially non-executive directors have access to board considers appropriate, supported by reasonable and independent professional advice when it is deemed necessary.
64 | Randgold Resources The directors are of the opinion that the financial statements under our joint venture agreement with AngloGold fairly present the financial position of the company and group Ashanti Ltd, or AngloGold Ashanti, we jointly manage as at 31 December 2008, and the consolidated results of Morila Ltd, and any disputes with AngloGold Ashanti operations and cash flows of the group for the year then over the management of Morila Ltd could adversely ended.
affect our business: our results of operations are adversely affected by The directors have continued to adopt the going concern increases in fuel prices, and we would be adversely basis in preparing the financial statements because the affected by disruptions in the supply of fuel: directors are satisfied that the group and company have the use of mining contractors at certain of our operations adequate financial resources available to ensure their may expose it to delays or suspensions in mining continued operational existence for the foreseeable future.
activities: we may be required to seek funding from third parties The group has operated a code of ethics since its United or enter into joint development arrangements to finance Kingdom listing in July 1997.
The code includes specific the development of our properties and the timely reference to the companys financial managers and the chief exploration of our mineral rights, which funding or executive officer.
A copy of the code is available on the development arrangements may not be available on companys website.
acceptable terms, or at all: we may not pay dividends to shareholders in the near The company also believes that the following risk factors should be carefully considered as either individually or in a future: combination they could have a material adverse effect on if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel our its business: business may be harmed: the profitability of our operations, and the cash flows our insurance coverage may prove inadequate to satisfy generated by our operations, are affected by changes future claims against us: in the market price for gold which in the past has it may be difficult for you to affect service of process fluctuated widely: and enforce legal judgments against us or our affiliates: our mining operations may yield less gold under actual and production conditions than indicated by our gold reserve we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a figures, which are estimates based on a number of public company and failure to comply with all applicable assumptions, including assumptions as to mining and regulations could subject us to liability or negatively recovery factors, production costs and the price of affect our share price.
gold: the profitability of operations and the cash flows Full details relating to these risk factors as well as those generated by these operations are significantly affected relating to our industry can be found in our Annual Report by fluctuations in the price, cost and supply of inputs: on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2007 and our business may be harmed if the Government of the S-8 filed on 15 December 2008, copies of which is Mali fails to repay fuel duties owing to Morila and Loulo: contained on our website.
our business may be harmed if the Government of Mali fails to repay Value Added Tax, or TVA, owing to Morila: we have invested in debt instruments for which the The board should maintain a sound system of internal control market has become substantially illiquid which leads to safeguard shareholders investment and the companys to uncertainty over the recoverable value: assets.
we may not be able to recover certain funds from The group maintains a business control framework that MDM Ferroman Pty Ltd: documents the key business risks, together with the related we may incur losses or lose opportunities for gains as operational, financial and compliance controls.
The business a result of our use of derivative instruments to protect control framework is regularly reviewed and updated by us against low gold prices: management, who report quarterly to the board on any issues our underground project at Loulo, developing two mines which might affect the risks and controls.
The board at Yalea and Gara, is subject to all of the risks associated acknowledges that it has responsibility for the ongoing review with underground mining: and update of the business control framework and believes our success may depend on our social and that, through the procedures noted above and below, it has environmental performance: complied with the requirements of the Code to review the actual cash costs of production, production results and effectiveness of the groups internal controls at least annually.
economic returns may differ significantly from those The company continues to adhere to the requirements of anticipated by our feasibility studies for new section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act.
development projects, including Tongon: we conduct mining, development and exploration The companys auditors, BDO Stoy Hayward LLP, also act activities in countries with developing economies and are subject to the risks of political and economic as auditors for Loulo and Morila, and their findings from instability associated with these countries: the audits are communicated to the audit committee.
Randgold Resources | 65 DIRECTORS REPORTS Corporate governance report continued AngloGold Ashantis internal audit department conducts During the year the audit committee met six times and regular audits of the Morila mine and copies of these reports attendance was as shown in the table alongside.
are submitted to the companys audit committee for consideration.
The group does not have a separate internal In terms of the directors remuneration policy, Mr Asher audit department but executive management undertake receives a fee as the senior independent director and no regular audits of various parts of the Morila and the Loulo additional payment for services to the audit committee.
Fees mines and details of their reports are submitted to the audit paid to Dr Paverd and Dr Voltaire for service to the audit committee and board for comment.
Financial and technical committee for the year were US$35 000 each and Mr Waldens audits of the companys branch offices and major assets are fee of US$5 833 was pro-rated.
regularly conducted by group management.
The committee makes recommendations to the board in The board notes that no cost effective system will preclude relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of all errors and irregularities and so the groups system of the external auditors as well as the remuneration and terms internal controls provides reasonable, but not absolute of engagement of the external auditors.
BDO Stoy Hayward assurance, against material misstatement or loss.
LLP served as external auditors for the group for the 2008 financial year and their re-appointment will be recommended The board should establish formal and transparent to shareholders at the May 2009 annual general meeting.
arrangements for considering how they should apply the financial reporting and internal control principles and for During the year, BDO Stoy Hayward LLP were paid maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys US$677 760 2007: US$802 793 for their services, whilst auditors.
, the groups previous external The companys audit committee has been set up to review auditors were paid US$54 183 2007: US$175 288 in respect the companys financial reports, internal control principles of their sign off of the annual report on Form 20-F for the and risk management systems, review significant financial year ended 31 December 2007 and the S-8 filed with the reporting judgements and for dealing with the appointment SEC on 15 December 2008, as well as for work performed of the auditors and monitoring their relationship with the on internal controls related to section 404.
No non-audit services were provided to the company by BDO Stoy Hayward company and its management.
The committee reviews and monitors the external During a substantial portion of the year, the audit committee auditors independence and the objectivity and effectiveness was comprised of three members all of whom were nonof the audit process.
This is undertaken within the framework executive directors.
In November 2008, Mr Walden was of a detailed audit charter.
A copy of the audit charter is appointed to the audit committee.
For reasons described available on the companys website.
earlier, the board considers that the members of the audit committee are all independent.
Mr Asher and Dr Paverd will The committee reviews the companys published results, the effectiveness if its system of internal control, legal and retire from the board at the companys May 2009 AGM and at that time the membership of the committee will be reregulatory compliance including the Sarbanes Oxley Act, evaluated.
and the cost effectiveness of the services provided by the external auditors.
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE The audit committee has implemented a policy regarding Number the provision, and pre-approval thereof, of non-audit services of by the external auditors and this mandate is reviewed annually.
meetings held and The committee meets regularly and this includes quarterly Members Appointed attended meetings which are used to consider and approve the companys quarterly results.
The external auditors are BH Asher Chairman 15 Jul 97 6 6 regularly invited to attend meetings to report on their activities.
AL Paverd 1 May 00 6 6 K Voltaire 1 Aug 06 6 6 The committee also meets with the external auditors, J Walden 3 Nov 08 - independent of the executive directors or management.
The Sarbanes Oxley Act required companies to establish whistle-blower systems.
The geographical spread of the One of the members has considerable years of experience in the financial services sector, one has extensive experience groups activities, particularly in remote West African locations, in the mining industry and the other has a PhD in finance.
The first point of contact is the companys legal counsel who upon receipt of such an issue The new director, Mr Walden, is a qualified chartered accountant.
The board believes that this level of experience being raised would employ independent consultants and continues to be sufficient to meet the standards imposed by pass the findings onto the senior independent director to the Combined Code.
If issues arose which were deemed pursue any alleged irregularity.
Quarterly reports are outside the areas of expertise of the members, independent submitted to the audit committee concerning any instances where complaints are submitted.
professional advice would be sought.
66 | Randgold Resources The audit committee has continued to oversee the groups most of the companys major institutional shareholders to compliance with the requirements of section 404 of the brief them on the activities of the company.
In addition after Sarbanes Oxley Act.
the publication of each set of quarterly results, the CEO follows up with meetings with many of the institutional There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the shareholders.
These roadshows are in addition to the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole companys attendance at several key international gold has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue mining conferences around the world.
In the last year with shareholders takes place.
investor conferences attended were held in New York, San The board acknowledges responsibility for maintaining Francisco, Denver, London, Zurich, Hollywood Florida and effective communication with all shareholders.
corporate communications manager and the companys investor relations consultants prepare a quarterly report for Institutional shareholders have a responsibility to make the board detailing the activities and presentations given to considered use of their votes.
In addition, since September 2004 the The company is pleased to see the increasing trend of company has employed international market intelligence institutional shareholders now exercising their rights to experts to provide a global shareholder identification service vote at general meetings.
In the past three years the which has greatly enhanced the focus of the companys percentage of shareholders present and voting has communication message.
While in general corporate communication with shareholders is conducted by the CEO, the chairman, at least quarterly, participates in an open forum with shareholders and stakeholders.
In addition, the chairman leads a group of senior executives to the African Mining Indaba, one of the premier global mining conferences attended by a substantial number of global players in the mining and related industries.
Besides attendance at various industry conferences, a minimum of two roadshows during the year are undertaken to enable company representatives to interact directly with shareholders and interested parties.
The board continues to use the internet for publication of announcements and to file these on its website to assist in communication with shareholders.
In addition the board encourages shareholders to access the annual report from the website rather than having it sent by post in printed form.
Our public relations department monitors and responds to all feedback received through our website.
The structure and accessibility of our website is regularly monitored through a process of internal and external audits.
The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
The board believes that the annual general meeting is an appropriate forum for contact with shareholders and encourages their attendance and participation.
In order to reflect the sentiment of shareholders at the annual general meeting, it is an unwritten policy that all resolutions should be considered by way of a ballot poll and the number of proxies received disclosed to members in attendance.
At each annual general meeting all sub-committee chairmen as well as other non-executive directors are present to address any queries raised by shareholders.
Institutional shareholders should enter into dialogue with companies based upon the mutual understanding of objectives.
It has been the policy of the company that twice a year lengthy roadshows are conducted by the CEO accompanied by various senior management where meetings are held with Randgold Resources | 67
