qxd:Layout 1 12 3 09 08:46 Page 34 B DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporategovernance  : agreeingobjectives, , andmonitoringthe  performance of the executive management:  keeping under review the general progress and long-term  development of the Group in light of the political, economic and social environments in which it operates: 2006 theCode.
of the Group including investment and nancing plans, determining the desired financial ratios, and approving the ?
objectives of the Groups business plan: TheCompanyhas, throughouttheyear, compliedfullywiththe  provisions of the Code.
Group, including entry into new elds of operation and departure from those which are no longer appropriate: ?
approving major expenditure and transactions with other , fourindependent companiesincluding, forexample, acquisitions, disposals, joint non-executive directors and two executive directors, whose ventures and significant supply arrangements: .
ensuring that the Group pursues sound and proper policies in relation to: Changes to the board since 1 January 2008 are as follows: health and safety matters: :and corporate governance: Peter Gill Finance director resigned 1 June 2008 delegating clear responsibility and authority to the chairman, Paddy Gallagher Finance director appointed 2 June 2008 committeesoftheboard, thechiefexecutive, directorsorgroups Owen ODonnell Non-executive appointed of directors, ofcers and others: and director 11 September 2008 giving approval or support, as appropriate, to the most senior appointments in the Group and ensuring that adequate career Richard Greenhalgh has been the senior independent director development,  since May 2006.
The board also considers the chairman, Peter for them.
The board reviews non-executive director independence on an annual basis.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the boards The board considers its overall size and composition to be decision.
, and no individual, or group of individuals, dominates the boards ?
At least one meeting is devoted to strategy, and is held has enough time available to devote to the job.
The board is offsite from the Companys head ofce.
Ad hoc meetings are also  convened to attend to any matters requiring board consideration  .
 chairmanship of the Group during the year.
a year with the non-executive directors without the executive Details of the terms of appointment of each member of the , ,  the non-executive directors meet at least once a year without the of their respective interests in Rank shares are given on pages 45 .
The board accepts that there should be a formal, rigorous and Details of attendances actual, and possible in brackets at the .
The principal board and committee meetings held in 2008, of board has formalised and adopted terms of reference for its directors and members of the board committees described on  page 36 were as follows: the company secretary.
Further details regarding the work of the .
Theboardhas Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Finance agreed the terms and conditions for the appointment of nonTotal10 Total3 Total6 Total4 Total18 executive directors, which are also available for inspection and Peter Johnson 10 10 4 4 17 18 comply with the Code.
Ian Burke 10 10 4 4 18 18  1 annual general meeting following their appointment, and Paddy Gallagher 6 6 10 10 2 thereafter at intervals of not more than three years apart.
NonPeter Gill 3 3 7 8 , RichardGreenhalgh 10 10 2 2 6 6 4 4 subject to their re-appointment having been confirmed by 3 Owen ODonnell 4 4 1 1 shareholders, as described above.
John Warren 10 10 3 3 6 6 3 3 The directors believe that it is essential that the Company should 1 Appointed 2 June 2008. be both led and controlled by an effective board.
The board has 2 Resigned 1 June 2008. , , 3 Appointed 11 September 2008.
qxd:Layout 1 12 3 09 08:46 Page 35  appropriate budgets are set for them individually, that their or committee meetings, his comments on the papers to be performance is effectively monitored, and that guidance or considered at that meeting were relayed in advance to the direction is given where appropriate: individual chairing the meeting.
being responsible for health and safety across the Group: ensuring that the Group complies with all relevant legislation:  and indemnitycover?
leading the Groups processes for communicating to, and The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of legal consulting with, employees.
To the extent permitted by English law, the Company also indemnifies the directors.
insurance nor the indemnity provides cover in situations where The senior independent director is available to shareholders if a director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
they have concerns that have not been, or cannot be, resolved .
He  also chairs meetings of the non-executive directors at which the chiefexecutive?
performance of the chairman is reviewed.
There is a clear division of the respective responsibilities of the chairman and chief executive.
The board has approved formal ?
statements describing the role and remit of both the chairman The evaluation process for the performance of the board as a and the chief executive, which emphasise this division of whole, and that of individual directors, during 2008 was carried their responsibilities.
out through a questionnaire process between the chairman and each director.
This was designed to provide an objective The chairman is responsible for: assessment and covered the areas of board process and managing the business of the board and presiding over its administration, and the contribution made by each individual.
meetings, resolving differences between directors and seeing In addition, led by the senior independent director, the that decisions are reached promptly: chairmans performance was evaluated by means of a ensuring, through the company secretary, that all directors questionnaire.
The outcomes of these assessments were then receive accurate, timely and clear information required for the reported to, and discussed by, the whole board.
The conclusion proper performance of their duties:  ensuring effective communication with shareholders, that both the board and its committees were discharging their keeping under review with the board the general progress and duties in full accordance with their terms of reference.
long-term development of the Group: ensuring the submission to the board by the chief executive of  objectives,  ?
creating lasting shareholder value: The board receives a steady ow of information to enable it to monitoring progress towards the timely and effective dischargeitsduties,  , policiesand and forecast trading results and treasury positions.
strategies agreed by the board and ensuring that appropriate  decisions are taken promptly by or on behalf of the board: of the monthly report, and more formal briengs on the annual evaluation of the board and its committees: and shareholders views are given to the board following the ensuring that the corporate governance of the Group is presentation of the Companys interim and annual results.
 Board papers are generally distributed not fewer than five the board.
days in advance of the relevant meeting to allow the directors ,  The chief executive is responsible for: are circulated to all directors.
directing and promoting the profitable operation and  development of the Group consistent with the primary the Companys businesses through regular presentations by the objective of creating long-term shareholder value: managing directors of the businesses.
, Induction programmes for newly-appointed directors are andphysical and human resources: devised to ensure that directors spend time with operational exercising executive stewardship of the provision and management and can visit operational sites.
maintenance of Group financial resources, and ensuring the All directors have access to the advice and services of the : company secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that board being generally responsible to the board for the development , , , includingtheprots, if required, at the Companys expense.
cash and costs of all businesses: effective strategic planning for the Group consistent with the ?
primary objective of enhancing long-term shareholder value, The board has the following committees: and for preparing objectives, policies and strategies for remuneration submission to the board: nominations ensuring that such action is taken as is necessary to secure the finance timely and effective implementation of the objectives, policies audit  details of which are given on page 36. on behalf of the board: ensuring that appropriate objectives, policies and strategies are adopted for each of the businesses of the Group, that THERANKGROUPPLC: 35 RK004 p34-40 AW1.
qxd:Layout 1 12 3 09 08:46 Page 36 B DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE   ?
Its role is to assist the chief executive in fullling his During2008,  responsibilities for directing and promoting the profitable endorsed the appointment of Paddy Gallagher as a replacement operation and development of the Group, consistent with the finance director for Peter Gill and the appointment of Owen primary objective of creating long-term shareholder value.
The  names of its current members, and the positions that they hold to the board.
External search consultants were engaged to assist within the Company, are set out on page 33. in the process of identifying suitable candidates, which led to these appointments.
The committee also endorsed the reappointment of John Warren as a non-executive director with  effect from 1 January 2009.
During 2008, the committee comprised the following: RichardGreenhalgh Date first appointed Chairman of the Peter Johnson remuneration committee committee chairman since 1 March 2007 1 March 2007 Ian Burke 6 March 2006 ?
Paddy Gallagher 2 June 2008 The remuneration committee is responsible for determining Peter Gill resigned 1 June 2008 11 July 2005 the remuneration arrangements for the chairman, the .
Details of the composition, role and meeting frequency of the   diditmeetduring2008?
on pages 41 to 46, which also summarises the Companys The finance committee is an executive committee to which .
certain specic authorities have been delegated by the board, principally in respect of capital expenditure authorisation and thenancingoftheGroup.
  throughout the year under review.
Theauditcommittee PeterJohnson Chairman of the nominations and finance committees JohnWarren ?
Chairman of the audit committee During 2008, the committee comprised the chairman, the chief executive and three independent non-executive directors: ?
Date first appointed During 2008, the committee comprised the following nonPeter Johnson executive directors all of whom are independent : committee chairman since 1 March 2007 1 March 2007 Date first appointed Richard Greenhalgh 22 June 2005 John Warren Bill Shannon 3 April 2006 committee chairman since 27 April 2006 1 January 2006 John Warren 1 January 2006 Richard Greenhalgh 3 March 2008 Ian Burke 6 March 2006 Owen ODonnell 11 September 2008 Bill Shannon 3 April 2006 ?
The nominations committee is responsible for identifying and The board is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the committee has nominating, for the approval of the board, all new board .
The board believes that it is helpful for the chief executive, finance director, company secretary and group  , asdorepresentatives process and thus both of them are members of the committee.
committee, were then reviewed by the board which concluded In summary, the committee assists the board in reviewing the thatthe committee functions effectively.
, , implementation and maintenance of the Companys code of  conduct and monitors the Groups whistleblowing programme.
 The board maintained the procedures necessary to comply with , inordertoensure  that they present a fair assessment of the Groups position and as described in the October 2005 publication entitled Internal prospects.
It also authorises any change in accounting policies.
Control: The audit committees terms of reference are available on written Turnbull Guidance.
In relation to Code provision C. 2.1, the .
 reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The board confirms that there is an ongoing process for The committee keeps under review the independence and identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced objectivity of the external auditors, and their effectiveness.
The process has been in place throughout the particular, the committee oversees the nature and amount of year and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
out in the Turnbull Guidance.
All non-audit services above a value of 50,000 to be performed  ?
committee in advance and the Groups policy is that, where The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the appropriate, non-audit work is put out to competitive tender.
,   control and for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control.
The role of management is to implement board policies on risk andcontrol.
  rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business ?
objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, The committee reviews the effectiveness of the external audit assuranceagainst material misstatement or loss.
process and the external auditors performance annually, taking ,   to the auditors.
Considerable importance is placed on maintaining a strong ?
In particular, there is a simple organisatThere were three meetings of the committee during the year ional structure with clearly drawn lines of accountability and under review.
Attendance details are contained on page 34. delegation of authority, adherence to specified codes of conduct isrequiredatalltimes,   of quality and integrity.
In addition to more routine items of business, during 2008 the  committee reviewed in detail the results of internal audits of bymanagement?
Mecca Bingo clubs, which by the end of the year under review  had improved.
Additionally, the committee reviewed the risk committee, during the year a further detailed risk assessment identication, evaluation and management work that had been process was undertaken which identied the key strategic, undertaken by the executive committee during the year.
At two operational,  ,  and which included an analysis of the likelihood and impact for , andprovision each of the risks identied.
This was reviewed by the audit of assistance to, problem gamblers and reviewed the procedures committee in December 2008.
For the key risks identied, action  plans have been developed and are regularly monitored by the theft.
Further information regarding Ranks commitment to .
protecting vulnerable persons from being harmed by gambling , theauditcommittee  and the board are provided with a report detailing significant contained in the operating responsibly section of this report on risks facing the Group.
 The Group has an internal audit function that reports to the auditcommittee?
 The audit committees performance was evaluated through the operations of the Group and compliance is monitored by completion of questionnaires.
The results of this evaluation, management, internal auditors and, to the extent they consider which was carried out by the members of the committee and necessary to support their audit report, the external auditors.
members of senior management who had dealings with the Additionally,  THERANKGROUPPLC: 37
