58 Structure and corporate governance Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Structure and corporate governance continued Best practice provision III.
3.4: The criterion for determining The boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV have implemented an ongoing process for identifying, the maximum number of directorships is the assurance of proper performance instead of a fixed number.
evaluating, monitoring and managing the more significant risks faced by their respective businesses.
This process has been in Principle III.
5: The Chairman of the Executive Board is place throughout the year ended 31 December 2008 and up to the date of the approvals of the Annual Reports and Financial a member of the Nominations Committee see page 56.
6.3: The disclosure of transactions where directors have a conflict of interest, as Reed Elsevier Group plc Reed Elsevier Group plc has an established framework of required by these provisions, shall be qualified to the extent required under applicable rules and laws pertaining to the procedures and internal controls, with which the management of each business is required to comply.
Group businesses are disclosure of price sensitive information, confidentiality and justified aspects of competition.
required to maintain systems of internal control which are appropriate to the nature and scale of their activities and address Principle III.
7: The remuneration of Supervisory Board all significant operational and financial risks that they face.
The board of Reed Elsevier Group plc has adopted a schedule members is determined by the Combined Board in the context of the board harmonisation with Reed Elsevier PLC of matters that are required to be brought to it for decision.
and Reed Elsevier Group plc, having regard for the maximum approved by the general meeting of shareholders.
Reed Elsevier Group plc has a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that provides a guide for achieving its business goals Best practice provision IV.
1.1: Appointments, suspensions and requires officers and employees to behave in an open, honest, ethical and principled manner.
The Code also outlines confidential or removal procedures of members of the Executive Board or Supervisory Board are set out on pages 54 and 55. procedures enabling employees to report any concerns about compliance, or about Reed Elseviers financial reporting Best practice provision IV.
3.1: It is considered impractical practice.
The Code is published on the Reed Elsevier website, and unnecessary to provide access for shareholders to all www.
meetings with analysts and all presentations to investors real time.
Price sensitive and other information relevant to Each division has identified and evaluated its major risks, the shareholders is disclosed as appropriate and made available controls in place to manage those risks and the levels of residual on the website.
Risk management and control procedures are embedded into the operations of the business and include the Internal control monitoring of progress in areas for improvement that come to Parent companies management and board attention.
The major risks identified The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV exercise include business continuity, protection of IT systems and data, independent supervisory roles over the activities and systems challenges to intellectual property rights, management of of internal control of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed strategic and operational change, evaluation and integration Finance BV.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier of acquisitions, and recruitment and retention of personnel.
NV have each adopted a schedule of matters which are required Further detail on the principal risks facing Reed Elsevier is to be brought to them for decision.
In relation to Reed Elsevier set out on pages 43 and 44.
Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV approve the strategy and the The major strategic risks facing the Reed Elsevier Group plc annual budgets, and receive regular reports on the operations, businesses are considered by the Board.
During 2008, Reed including the treasury and risk management activities of the Elsevier appointed a Chief Risk Officer whose responsibilities two companies.
Major transactions proposed by the boards include providing regular reports to the Board and Audit of Reed Elsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed Finance BV Committee.
Working closely with divisional and business require the approval of the boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC management and with the central functions, the role of the and Reed Elsevier NV.
Chief Risk Officer is to ensure that Reed Elsevier is managing its business risks effectively and in a coordinated manner across The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committee the business with clarity on the respective responsibilities and meet on a regular basis to review the systems of internal control interdependencies.
Litigation and other legal regulatory matters and risk management of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier are managed by legal directors in Europe and the United States.
The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee receives regular Operating companies reports on the identification and management of material risks The board of Reed Elsevier Group plc is responsible for the and reviews these reports.
The Audit Committee also receives system of internal control of the Reed Elsevier publishing and regular reports from both internal and external auditors on information businesses, while the boards of Elsevier Reed internal control and risk management matters.
In addition, Finance BV are responsible for the system of internal control each division is required, at the end of the financial year, to review in respect of the finance group activities.
The boards of Reed the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management and Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are also report its findings on a detailed basis to the management of responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of their system Reed Elsevier Group plc.
These reports are summarised and, of internal control.
as part of the annual review of effectiveness, submitted to the Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the boards on any significant internal control matters arising.
