Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 57 Structure and corporate governance Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Structure and corporate governance continued The Committees terms of reference include assuring board Dutch Corporate Governance Code succession and making recommendations to the boards of During the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc Reed Elsevier NV held in April 2005, the companys corporate concerning the appointment or re-appointment of directors to, governance was explained, discussed with and approved by and the retirement of directors from, those boards.
The corporate governance principles and best with the Chairman of the Reed Elsevier Group plc Remuneration practices are set out in Reed Elseviers corporate governance Committee and external consultants, the Committee is also manual.
Reed Elsevier is currently assessing the implications responsible for developing proposals for the remuneration and of the new Dutch Corporate Governance Code published fees for new directors.
In recommending appointments to the in December 2008 and effective for accounting periods Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board, the Committee considers commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
In accordance with the the knowledge, experience and background of individual directors recommendations of the Dutch Corporate Governance Monitoring and the Supervisory Board as a whole, having regard to the Committee, Reed Elsevier NV will present a chapter on the broad profile adopted for the constitution of the Supervisory Board outline of its corporate governance structure and compliance with see www.
the amended Code for discussion as a separate agenda item at the Annual General Meeting in 2010.
Number of meetings The Combined Board of Reed Elsevier NV has adopted rules Date of held whilst a Number of governing the functioning of the boards and the relationship cessation Committee meetings with shareholders, reflecting the requirements of the Members during the year member attended Dutch Code, which are published on the Reed Elsevier website, Sir Crispin Davis 9 3 www.
Mark Elliott 9 9 Jan Hommen 9 9 As Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV are subject to David Reid 9 9 various corporate governance principles and best practice codes, Lord Sharman 9 9 Reed Elseviers corporate governance may not apply fully the Rolf Stomberg April 2008 4 2 verbatim language of all principles and best practice provisions of the Dutch Code.
The following recommendations are not fully applied for reasons set out above or explained below: Corporate Governance Committee: Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have established a joint Corporate Governance Best practice provision II.
2.3: Executive directors are required Committee, which is responsible for reviewing ongoing to build up a minimum shareholding and Reed Elsevier uses developments and best practice in corporate governance.
The long term incentive arrangements in the form of awards Committee is also responsible for recommending the structure of shares which may vest after three years.
The intent of and operation of the various committees of the boards and the this shareholding policy is to align the interests of senior qualifications and criteria for membership of each committee, executives and shareholders.
This intent is in compliance including the independence of members of the boards.
Shares received on joining the company in Committee comprises only non-executive directors, all of whom compensation for vested benefits under incentive schemes are independent, and is chaired by Jan Hommen.
from a previous employer are not to be considered as free shares in this context.
During the period the Committee concluded that no significant changes were required as regards Reed Elseviers current Best practice provisions II.
7.3: In view also of the policies and best practices.
The Committee assessed the foreign residency and nationality of the majority of members performance of individual directors and, led by the senior of the Combined Board, it has been deemed sufficient that independent director, also assessed the performance of the notifications of holdings in Dutch listed companies other than Chairman.
Using questionnaires completed by all directors, Reed Elsevier NV shall be done annually rather than quarterly the Committee reviewed the functioning and constitution of the as required by this Code provision.
Based on these assessments and on the board effectiveness review, the Committee believes that Best practice provision III.
2.7: Executive directors have an the performance of each director continues to be effective and employment agreement under English law that provides for a that they demonstrate commitment to their respective roles in notice period not exceeding one year.
None of the employment Reed Elsevier.
agreements contain severance pay arrangements beyond the notice period.
Although the principle that severance pay Number of Date of meetings should not exceed one years salary is supported, there may cessation held whilst a Number of be exceptional circumstances that could justify additional during the Committee meetings compensation on termination for loss of variable Members year member attended remuneration components.
Dien fide Boer-Kuyt 1 0 Mark Elliott 1 1 Best practice provisions II.
2.11: In view of Jan Hommen 1 1 their detailed specificity and complexity and because of the confidential or potentially commercially sensitive nature Lisa Hook 1 1 of the information concerned, individual performance Robert Polet 1 1 targets and achievements relevant for variable executive David Reid 1 1 remuneration will only be disclosed in general terms.
Lord Sharman 1 1 Rolf Stomberg April 2008 0 0
