Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 81 Report of the Audit Committees Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees of A copy of the terms of reference of each Audit Committee is Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, in conjunction with the published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc, the Committees and has been approved by the respective boards.
Committee membership The Committees each comprise at least three independent The report meets the requirements of the Combined Code non-executive directors.
The members of each of the Committees of Corporate Governance, issued by the UK Financial Services that served during the year are: Lord Sharman Chairman of Authority.
the Committees, Lisa Hook and David Reid.
Lord Sharman and David Reid, both chartered accountants, are considered to have Audit Committees significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
Biographies The main role and responsibilities of the Committees in relation to of the members of each of the Committees are set out on the respective companies are set out in written terms of reference page 49. and include: Appointments to the Committees are made on the i to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of recommendation of the Nominations Committee and are for the company, and any formal announcements relating to periods of up to three years, extendable by no more than two the companys financial performance, reviewing significant additional three-year periods, so long as the member continues financial reporting judgements contained in them: to be independent.
Details of the remuneration policy in respect of members of the Committees and the remuneration paid to ii to review the companys internal financial controls and the members for the year ended 31 December 2008 are set out in companys internal control and risk management systems: the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 80. iii to monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys Committee activities internal audit function: The Committees typically hold meetings five times a year: in January, February, June, July and December, and report iv to make recommendations to the board, for it to put on these meetings to the respective boards at the next board to the shareholders for their approval in general meetings, meetings.
The principal business of these meetings includes: in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and January: review of critical accounting policies and practices, terms of engagement of the external auditor: and significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the annual financial statements: v to review and monitor the external auditors independence review of risk management and internal control effectiveness: and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, reviewing and approving the internal audit plan: review of taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory internal audit findings: requirements: and February: review and approval of annual financial statements, vi to develop and recommend policy on the engagement of results announcement and related formal statements: review the external auditor to supply non audit services, taking into of external audit findings: account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non audit services by the external audit firm, and to June: monitoring and assessing the qualification, monitor compliance.
performance, expertise, resources, objectivity and independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness The Committees report to the respective boards on their activities of the external and internal audit process: agreeing the identifying any matters in respect of which they consider that external audit plan: reviewing significant financial reporting action or improvement is needed and making recommendations issues and judgements arising in connection with the interim as to the steps to be taken.
financial statements: review of significant external financial reporting and regulatory developments: review of risk The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee fulfils this role management activities: review of report from external auditors in respect of the publishing and information operating business.
on control matters: review of internal audit findings: The functions of an audit committee in respect of the financing activities are carried out by the Supervisory Board of Elsevier July: review and approval of the interim financial statements, Reed Finance BV.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV results announcement and related formal statements: review Audit Committees fulfil their roles from the perspective of the of external audit findings: review of internal audit findings: parent companies and both Committees have access to the reports to and the work of the Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit December: review of year end financial reporting and Committee and the Elsevier Reed Finance BV Supervisory Board accounting issues: review of significant external financial in this respect.
reporting and regulatory developments: review of external audit findings to date: review of internal audit findings and The Committees have explicit authority to investigate any matters risk management activities.
within their terms of reference and have access to all resources and information that they may require for this purpose.
The Committees are entitled to obtain legal and other independent professional advice and have the authority to approve all fees payable to such advisers.
82 Report of the Audit Committees Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Report of the Audit Committees continued The Audit Committee meetings are typically attended by Lord Sharman, Lisa Hook and David Reid attended all the chief financial officer, group financial controller, chief risk five meetings of the Committees in 2008. officer and director of internal audit, and senior representatives of the external auditors.
Additionally, the managing director and The external auditors have attended all meetings of the senior representatives of the external auditors of Elsevier Reed Committees.
They have provided written reports at the June, Finance BV attend the July and February meetings of the parent July, December and February meetings summarising the company Audit Committees.
At two or more of the meetings most significant findings from their audit work.
These reports each year, the Committees additionally meet separately with have been discussed by the Committees and actions agreed the external auditors without management present, and also where necessary.
with the chief risk officer.
The external auditors have confirmed their independence In discharging their principal responsibilities in respect of the from management and compliance with the Reed Elsevier 2008 financial year, the Committees have: policy on auditor independence.
This policy sets out inter alia the requirements for rotation of the lead, review and other i received and discussed reports from the Reed Elsevier Group senior audit partners, as well as guidelines for the provision plc group financial controller that set out areas of significance of permitted non audit services.
The Committees have reviewed in the preparation of the financial statements, including: and agreed the non audit services provided by the external review of the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets auditors, together with the associated fees.
The external for possible impairment, review of estimated useful lives auditors fees for audit services have been reviewed and of intangible assets, accounting for pensions and related approved by the Committees.
assumptions, accounting for share based remuneration and related assumptions, review of the carrying value of At their meeting in June 2008, the Committees conducted investments, accounting treatment for acquisitions and a formal review of the performance of the external auditors disposals, application of revenue recognition and cost and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Based capitalisation policies, accounting for derivatives, review of on this review, and on their subsequent observations on the tax reserves and provisions for lease obligations.
Areas of planning and execution of the external audit for the year ended focus in 2008 were the accounting and judgements in respect 31 December 2008, the Committees have recommended to of the carrying value of investments, goodwill and intangible the respective boards that resolutions for the reappointment assets, the presentation in the financial statements of of the external auditors be proposed at the forthcoming Reed Business Information and the use of the going concern Annual General Meetings.
basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
The effectiveness of the operation of the Audit Committees ii reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance was reviewed in January 2009. with applicable accounting standards and other disclosure requirements and received regular update reports on Lord Sharman of Redlynch accounting and regulatory developments.
Chairman of the Audit Committees iii received and discussed regular reports on the management 18 February 2009 of material risks and reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
As part of this review, detailed internal control evaluation and certification is obtained from management across the operating businesses, reviewed by internal audit and discussed with the Committees.
iv received and discussed regular reports from the chief risk officer and director of internal audit summarising the status of the Reed Elsevier risk management activities and the findings from internal audit reviews and the actions agreed with management.
Areas of focus in 2008 included the continued compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the documentation and testing of internal controls over financial reporting, the management of restructuring activities and review of information security.
v reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2008 and monitored execution.
Reviewed the resources, budget and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
vi received presentations from the CFO of Elsevier on outsourcing activities, from the chief security officer on Information Security management, and from the group treasurer on financing activities and the group insurance programme.
vii received regular updates from the CFO of Reed Elsevier on developments within the finance function.
