Directors Report Corporate Governance Governance framework Main Audit Remuneration Nomination The Board is committed to the high standards of corporate Regus plc Board Committee Committee Committee governance set out in the Combined Code published in Total meetings 21 June 2006 the Code for financial periods beginning after 1 November 2006.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Mark Dixon 2 shareholders and this report describes how the Board applied Stephen Gleadle 2 the principles of good governance.
In its prospectus dated 8 John Matthews2 September 2008 the Company stated its intention to voluntarily comply with the Combined Code so far as it is practical for a Martin Robinson 21 Luxembourg company to do so.
There is no similar corporate Lance Browne 21 governance regime in Luxembourg applicable to the Company.
Ulrich Ogiermann 21 Douglas Sutherland 21 The Board At 31 December 2008, the Board of Directors was made up Matters reserved for the Board of seven members comprising the Chairman, two executive The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for directors and four non-executive directors.
Biographical its decision, to ensure that no one individual has unfettered details of the directors are set out on pages 22 and 23. powers of decision.
These include: During the year, as a result of the Group reorganisation and Approval of regulatory announcements including the Scheme of Arrangement completed on 14 October 2008, interim and annual financial statements.
Regus Group plc ceased to be the holding company of the Terms of reference and membership of the Board and Regus Group and a new parent company, Regus plc, was created.
The Board and committees of Regus plc after the its Committees.
reorganisation were therefore treated as a continuation of Changes to the Groups capital structure.
the Board and committees of Regus Group plc prior to Changes to the Groups management and control structure.
Capital investment in excess of 5 million.
Material contracts annual value in excess of 5 million.
Role of the Board Minutes are taken of all Board discussions and decisions The primary role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial and all directors are encouraged to request inclusion of any leadership and to review the overall strategic development unresolved concerns that they may have in the Board minutes.
The Board approves the corporate plan and the annual budget and reviews performance against Roles of Board members targets at every meeting.
Through the Audit Committee, the There is a clear division of responsibilities between the directors ensure the integrity of financial information and the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
effectiveness of financial controls and the internal control and risk management system.
The Board has delegated authority The Chairman to the Remuneration Committee to set the remuneration John Matthews is responsible for leadership of the Board, policy for directors and senior management.
The Nomination setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures Committee recommends the appointment of Board directors effective communication with shareholders and that the Board and has responsibility for succession planning at Board level.
is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates The various Board Committees have authority to make both the contribution of the non-executive directors and decisions in their areas of expertise.
constructive relations between the executive directors and non-executive directors.
Frequency of meetings There were three scheduled Regus Group plc and two Regus The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, is plc Board meetings during 2008. responsible for ensuring that all directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and individual attendance by the directors are shown below.
Details timely access to relevant information.
for Regus Group plc are for the period 1 January 2008 until The Chairman is not deemed to be independent because he 14 October 2008 and for Regus plc for the period 14 October has been a non-executive director for more than ten years.
The Chief Executive Main Audit Remuneration Nomination Regus Group plc Board Committee Committee Committee Mark Dixon is responsible for formulating strategy and for its Total meetings 32 3 2 delivery once agreed by the Board.
He creates a framework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the Mark Dixon 3 successful delivery of key targets, and allocates decisionStephen Gleadle 3 making and responsibilities accordingly.
Rudy Lobo 3 Non-executive directors John Matthews32 The non-executive directors each bring their own senior level Stephen East 32 3 2 of experience and objectivity to the Board.
The independent Roger Orf 31 3 2 counsel brought to the Group by the non-executives enhances Martin Robinson 32 3 2 the overall decision making of the Board.
com Governance framework appointed for an initial three-year term, subject to election by of the external auditors.
The Committee has the opportunity shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM after to meet with the external auditors without senior management being present.
The Board consider the non-executive Employee concerns the Committee reviews the Companys directors to be independent.
arrangements under which employees may in confidence Company Secretary raise any concerns regarding possible wrongdoing in financial The Company Secretary, Tim Regan, is responsible for advising reporting or other matters.
The Committee ensures that these the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters arrangements allow proportionate and independent and for ensuring that appropriate minutes are taken of all Board investigation and appropriate follow-up action.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters reserved for the Board.
The Committee also meets independently with the Companys auditors and with the Head of Risk Management to informally Board Committees discuss matters of interest.
The Board has delegated certain of its governance External auditors responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration KPMG Audit S.. r. l. were the Companys auditors for the Committees.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of year ended 31 December 2008.
For 2009, the Committee the Board Committees and minutes of meetings are circulated has recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint to all Board members.
KPMG Audit S.. r. l. as the Companys auditors be proposed The terms of reference of these committees have been at the AGM.
The Committee will continue to keep under review documented and approved by the Board and are available on the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the the Companys website www.
A brief summary of effectiveness of the audit process and the rotation of the lead the members, activities and terms of reference of the Board audit partner.
The scope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by the Audit Committee Companys external auditor is monitored by and, above certain Douglas Sutherland appointed and Chairman from thresholds, requires prior approval from the Committee to 14 October 2008 ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not Martin Robinson impair their independence or objectivity.
During the year, Ulrich Ogiermann appointed 14 October 2008 KPMG performed statutory work in relation to the Group Lance Browne appointed 14 October 2008 reorganisation.
KPMG is prohibited from providing services Roger Orf Chairman until 10 March 2008: that would be considered to jeopardise their independence resigned 14 October 2008 such as book-keeping services, valuations and system design.
Stephen East Chairman from 10 March 2008: resigned 14 October 2008 Remuneration Committee Martin Robinson Chairman The Board has delegated the responsibility for applying an Lance Browne appointed 14 October 2008 effective system of internal control and compliance, accurate Ulrich Ogiermann appointed 14 October 2008 external financial reporting, fulling its obligations under law Douglas Sutherland appointed 14 October 2008 and the Combined Code, and managing the relationship with Roger Orf resigned 14 October 2008 the Companys external auditors to the Audit Committee.
Stephen East resigned 14 October 2008 The Committee consists entirely of non-executive directors.
Details of the Remuneration Committee are set out in The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year.
At the the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 39. request of the Chairman, the external auditors, the executive directors, the Company Secretary and the Head of Risk Nomination Committee Management attend each meeting.
John Matthews Chairman Summary terms of reference: Martin Robinson Lance Browne appointed 14 October 2008 Financial Reporting provide support to the Board by Ulrich Ogiermann appointed 14 October 2008 monitoring the integrity of the published financial statements Douglas Sutherland appointed 14 October 2008 of the Group and any formal announcements relating to Roger Orf resigned 14 October 2008 the Companys financial performance and ensuring that Stephen East resigned 14 October 2008 they comply fully with the relevant statutes and accounting standards.
The Committee meets as required during the year to Internal control and risk systems review the effectiveness of consider matters delegated to it under its terms of reference.
the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
Board effectiveness, performance and leadership were Internal audit monitor and review the annual internal discussed informally by the Board as a whole.
audit programme ensuring that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and free from management restrictions Summary terms of reference: and review and monitor responses to the findings and Board appointment and composition to regularly review recommendations of the internal auditors.
the structure, size and composition of the Board and make External audit the Committee advises the Board on the recommendations on the role and nomination of directors for appointment, re-appointment, remuneration and removal Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27 Directors Report Corporate Governance Governance framework continued appointment and reappointment to the Board for the purpose The prole of clients in a centre is continually reviewed of ensuring a balanced Board in respect of skills, knowledge to avoid undue reliance on a particular client or clients and experience.
Board Committees to make recommendations to Additionally, in the event of a downturn, the Group has the Board in relation to the suitability of candidates for a number of options for mitigating losses, for example membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
by closing centres at lease break points.
The appointment and removal of directors are matters The Groups strategy also focuses its growth into emerging reserved for the full Board.
markets that will reduce the proportion of the Groups revenue Board effectiveness to assess the role of Chairman and generated from the USA and Europe over time and provide Chief Executive and make appropriate recommendations better protection to the Group from an economic downturn to the Board.
Board performance to assist the Chairman with the annual performance evaluation to assess the overall and individual Exposure to movements in property markets performance and effectiveness of the Board.
A number of the Groups lease contracts contain market rent Leadership to remain fully informed about strategic issues review clauses.
This means that the costs of these leases may and commercial matters affecting the Company and to keep vary as a result of external movements in the property market.
under review the leadership needs of the organisation to In particular, in the UK, lease contracts typically contain enable it to compete effectively.
upward only rent reviews which means that should open market rents decrease, then Regus could be exposed to Principal risks and uncertainties paying higher than market rent in these locations.
There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could have an impact on the Groups long-term performance.
The Group If the Group is unable to pass on increased rent costs to has a risk management structure in place designed to identify, customers due to local property market conditions then this manage and mitigate business risks.
Risk assessment and could result in reduced profitability or operating losses in evaluation are an essential part of the annual planning, these markets.
Equally, for Group lease contracts without market rent review The directors have identied the following principal risks and clauses, the Group may benefit from paying below market rent uncertainties affecting the Company.
These do not constitute in a market with increasing open market rents.
This may allow all of the risks facing the Group.
the Group to improve profitability if the movements in open market rents are passed on to clients.
Economic downturn in significant markets The Group has a significant proportion of its centres in the The length of the Groups leases or the period after which the Americas predominantly the USA and Europe.
An economic Group can exercise any break option in the leases is usually downturn in these markets could adversely affect the Groups signicantly longer than the duration of the Groups contracts with its customers.
If demand falls, the Group may be unable operating revenues thereby reducing operating performance or, in an extreme downturn, resulting in operating losses.
to increase or maintain occupancy or price levels and if revenue declines the Group may be unable to reduce the lease cost Generally, the terms on which the Group earns revenues base.
Additional costs could be incurred if the Group disposes from customers and pays its suppliers principally landlords are of unprofitable centres.
matched to reduce working capital needs.
However, a reduction Exposure to movements in exchange rates in revenues, with no immediate decline in the cost base, could The Group has significant overseas operations whose result in significant funding shortfalls in the business.
Any businesses are generally conducted in the currency of the funding shortfall may require the Group to seek external country in which they operate.
The principal exposures of the funding or sell assets in the longer term.
Group are to the US dollar and the euro with approximately In addition, competition may increase as a result of landlords 38% of the Groups revenues being attributable to the US offering surplus space at discounted prices and companies dollar and 19% to the euro respectively.
seek to reduce their costs by sub-letting space.
These factors Given that transactions generally take place in the functional could result in reduced revenue for the Group as the prices it currency of Group companies, the Groups exposure to is able to charge customers would be reduced.
transactional foreign exchange risk is limited.
However, the The Group has taken a number of actions to mitigate this risk: translation into sterling of overseas profits and net assets will be affected by prevailing exchange rates.
In the event that The Group has entered into performance-based leases with either the US dollar or euro were to signicantly depreciate landlords where rent costs vary with revenues earned by or appreciate against sterling, this would have an adverse the centre.
or beneficial impact on the Groups reported performance Building lease contracts include break clauses at periodic and position respectively.
intervals to allow the Group to exit leases should they become onerous.
In cities with a number of centres this The financial risk management objectives and policies of the allows the Group to stagger leases such that an orderly Group, together with an analysis of the exposure to such risks, reduction in exposure to the location may be facilitated.
are set out in note 23 of the Accounts.
com Governance framework the Group attempts to create natural hedges against currency Internal controls exposures through matching income and expense and assets The Board has ultimate responsibility for maintaining a sound and liabilities in the same currency.
system of internal control and for periodically reviewing its effectiveness.
Given the continued volatility in exchange rates, in January 2009 the Board approved a policy which allows the Group In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report to hedge, subject to strict limits, the rates at which overseas Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined earnings are translated.
This will enable the Group to have Code, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, more certainty over the sterling value of these earnings.
managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
The Groups system of internal controls is designed to: Group reorganisation and restructuring In October 2008, the Group entered into a reorganisation to create facilitate the effective and efficient response to risks which a new Group structure.
Reorganisations of international groups might affect the achievement of the Groups objectives.
can lead to a risk of a significant tax liability.
In addition, as a safeguard assets from inappropriate use or from loss or fraud.
result of the scheme, it is expected that Regus plc will be help ensure the quality of internal and external regarded as tax resident solely in Luxembourg.
If Regus plc financial reporting.
were nonetheless to be treated as tax resident in any other help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
jurisdiction, this could lead to an increase in the overall No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance effective tax rate and tax compliance costs of the Group.
against material mis-statement or loss.
The Groups system As a Jersey-incorporated company having its place of central of controls helps to manage rather than eliminate the risk of administration head office in Luxembourg and being tax failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide resident in Luxembourg, Regus plc is required to comply reasonable assurance that potential problems will normally with both Jersey law and Luxembourg law, where applicable.
be prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for In addition, Regus plcs ordinary shares are listed on the Ofcial appropriate action.
List of the UKLA and admitted to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
It is possible that conicts may Strategy and risk management arise between the obligations of Regus plc under the laws of The Board conducts regular reviews of the Groups strategic each of these jurisdictions or between the applicable laws and direction.
Country and regional strategic objectives, quarterly the Listing Rules.
If an irreconcilable conict were to occur then plans and performance targets for 2009 have been set by the Regus plc may not be able to maintain its status as a company executive directors and are regularly reviewed by the main tax resident in Luxembourg.
Board in the context of the Groups overall objectives.
The Group manages the risk that a significant tax liability could There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and arise by taking appropriate advice, both in carrying out the managing the risks faced by the Group.
Major business risks Group reorganisation and on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the and their financial implications are appraised by the responsible Group believes that under current laws and regulations the risk executives as part of the budget process and these are of irreconcilable conicts between current laws and regulations endorsed by regional management.
Key risks are reported impacting Regus plc is low.
to the Board and the Audit Committee.
The appropriateness of controls is considered by the executives, having regard to As part of the Group reorganisation, the Group announced cost benefit, materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising.
plans to operate an income access share IAS arrangement Key risks and actions to mitigate those risks are regularly for the payment of dividends.
The Group expects that dividends considered by the Board and are formally reviewed and will be paid to Regus plc shareholders who make or are deemed to make an IAS election through the IAS approved by the Board annually.
However, there can be no certainty that Control environment dividends will be paid in this way and the IAS arrangements High standards of behaviour are demanded from staff at may be suspended or terminated at any time and for any all levels in the Group.
The following procedures are in place reason.
If the IAS arrangements do not operate shareholders to support this: will be paid dividends by Regus plc which may be subject to Luxembourg withholding tax.
In addition, there is a low the induction process is used to educate new team risk that share buy-backs undertaken by Regus plc could members on the standards required from them in their role, also be subject to Luxembourg withholding tax.
including business ethics and compliance, regulations and internal policies.
Centrally managed applications and systems all team members are provided with a copy of the Team The Group has moved to a centrally managed applications and Member Handbook which contains detailed guidance on systems environment with the resultant effect that all systems employee policies and the standards of behaviour required and applications are housed in a central data centre.
data centre be impacted as a result of circumstances outside policies and procedures manuals and guidelines are readily the Groups control there could be an adverse impact on the accessible through the Groups intranet site.
Groups operations and therefore its financial results.
This risk operational audit and self-certication tools require individual is managed through a detailed service agreement with our centre managers to confirm their adherence to Group policies external data centre provider which incorporates appropriate and procedures.
Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 Directors Report Corporate Governance Governance framework continued To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is the Groups policy Regular staff communications include general information on to recruit and develop appropriately skilled management and the business from senior management as well as operational guidance on changes in policies and procedures.
staff of high calibre, integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
Sales staff and operational management periodically attend The Group has also established an externally hosted whistleblowing channel to enable all staff to report issues and regional sales or management conferences at which information on operational issues is shared.
Delegates present the key concerns in confidence.
messages to employees who did not attend the event.
Control processes Monitoring effectiveness The Group has had procedures in place throughout the year The following key mechanisms were available to the Board and up to 20 March 2009, the date of approval of this Annual at various times during the year in the conduct of its review Report, which accord with the Internal Control Guidance for of internal controls: directors on the Combined Code.
These include the following: Review of the Groups monthly management accounts The Board normally meets with regional executives every six which contain detailed analysis of financial performance months to carry out a wide-ranging review of Group and for the Group and each of the Groups geographic regional financial performance, business development reporting segments.
opportunities, Group infrastructure and general Group An ongoing process of review, through Board meetings, management issues.
senior management meetings and divisional reviews The annual budget process is driven from senior management as well as other management meetings, for the formal meetings.
Budgets are prepared at a detailed level by identication of significant operational risks and mitigating business centre and roll-up at a country and regional level.
The executive directors review regional budgets to ensure Internal audit reviews of key risk areas.
The findings consistency with regional strategic objectives, and the final and recommendations of each review are reported to budget is reviewed and approved by the Board.
The approved management and the Audit Committee.
budget forms the basis of business management throughout Quarterly post-investment reviews are presented to the the year.
Audit Committee to allow appraisal of the effectiveness Operational reports and financial reports are prepared and of investment activity.
distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
Actual results A bi-annual internal control self-assessment and management are reviewed against budget and forecast and explanations certication exercise covering the effectiveness of financial are received for all material movements.
This is based on a comprehensive Key policies and control procedures including finance, internal control questionnaire collated and reviewed by operations, and health and safety are documented in Internal Audit.
Results and any necessary mitigating action manuals having Group-wide application.
These are available plans are presented to senior management and the Board.
to all staff on the Groups intranet system.
The Board has formal procedures in place for the review and Other matters Board Performance Evaluation approval of investment and acquisition projects.
The Group During 2008, a formal annual performance evaluation was Investment Committee comprising the executive directors conducted in respect of the Board, its Committees and reviews all investments prior to approval by the Board.
each individual director by means of an internally produced Additionally, the form and content of investment proposals written questionnaire.
This required performance to be scored are standardised to facilitate the review process.
on a scale of 1 to 5 against a number of criteria with The Group has clearly delegated authority limits with regard 1 representing a need for urgent improvement in performance, to the approval of transactions.
Purchase orders must be 3 representing adequate performance and 5 representing obtained in advance for all purchases in excess of 1,000. excellent performance.
Numerous reports are generated from the Groups sales and operating systems on a daily, weekly and monthly basis The results of these evaluations were consolidated by the to provide management at all levels with performance data Chairman and presented to the Board for formal consideration.
for their area of responsibility which helps them to focus All criteria were scored as adequate or better and on operational issues that may require their input.
therefore no formal corrective actions have been initiated.
The independent senior non-executive director reviewed Information and communications processes the Chairmans performance.
The senior management team is integrally involved in the business and to this extent regularly discusses and addresses Training and resources issues and opportunities with regional and functional teams.
Appropriate training is made available for all new directors to Formal business review meetings, chaired by Mark Dixon, assist them in the discharge of their responsibilities.
Training are held with the regional teams and functional heads on is provided on an ongoing basis to meet particular needs with a monthly basis.
the emphasis on governance and accounting developments.
com Governance framework During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Regan, provided of hands.
Substantial resolutions of the shareholders require updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, whilst a poll to be taken.
the Audit Committee regularly considers new accounting Financial and other information is made available on the developments through presentations from management, Companys website www.
internal audit and the external auditors.
The Board programme Re-election of the Board includes presentations from management at which, together All directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders with site visits, the non-executive directors understanding of at least every three years and directors appointed during the the business and sector is increased.
period are required to seek election at the next AGM.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Non-executive directors are subject to the re-election Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board requirements and serve the Company under letters of procedures, corporate governance and regulatory compliance appointment, which have an initial three-year term.
are followed and complied with.
Should a director request independent professional advice to carry out his duties, such Compliance statement advice is available to him at the Companys expense.
The Company has complied with the provisions set out in Directors and ofcers insurance section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended The Groups insurance programme is reviewed annually and 31 December 2008, with the exception of the following: appropriate insurance cover is obtained to protect the directors Provision D. 1.1 The senior independent non-executive and senior management in the event of a claim being brought director, Martin Robinson, does not have regular meetings against any of them in their capacity as directors and ofcers with major external shareholders.
The Board considers it appropriate for the Chairman to be the Dialogue with shareholders main conduit with investors, rather than the senior independent Regus reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with the non-executive director.
The Chairman participates in investor half-year results announced in August September and the meetings and makes himself available for questions, in person, annual results normally announced in March.
There are at the time of major announcements.
The Chairman regularly programmes for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial updates the Board and particularly the senior independent officer to give presentations of these results to the Companys non-executive director, on the results of his meetings and the institutional investors, analysts and media in London and opinions of investors.
On this basis, Regus considers that the other locations.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial senior independent non-executive director is able to gain full officer maintain a close dialogue with institutional investors awareness of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
on the Companys performance, governance, plans and Notwithstanding this policy, all directors have a standing objectives.
These meetings also serve to develop an ongoing invitation to participate in meetings with investors.
understanding of the views and any concerns of the Companys major shareholders.
The non-executive directors are given regular updates as to the views of the institutional shareholders and the Chairman is available to meet with these shareholders on request.
The principal communication with private shareholders is through the Annual Report, the Interim Report and the AGM.
The Company has engaged the services of Brunswick Group plc as their Investor Relations adviser.
AGM The AGM will be held in May in Luxembourg and will be attended, other than in exceptional circumstances, by all members of the Board.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting, there is normally a trading update and shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the directors informally afterwards.
Notice of the AGM, together with any related documents is mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each issue.
The level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and against each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, if any, are announced to the meeting following voting by a show Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31
