directors corporAte goVernAnce report PAGE 36 37 The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of The Board does not comply with this requirement as it considers the corporate governance.
balance of the Board to be appropriate for the size of its business.
This report, together with the Directors remuneration report on The senior independent director is Joe McGeehan and he is page 40 sets out how the Company has applied the principles of available to discuss concerns with shareholders should the normal the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued channels of the Chairman and Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director fail to resolve such concerns or for which such contact by the Financial Reporting Council.
DireCTors appoinTmenTs To THe boarD THe boarD The Remuneration and nomination committee is the committee The Board comprises five executive and four non-executive responsible for reviewing the structure and composition of the directors.
The directors holding office at the date of this report and Board and nominating candidates for appointment to the Board.
their biographical details are given on pages 6 and 7.
All the members of this committee are independent non-executive The Board focuses on formulation of strategy, management of directors and a list of membership and the chair of the committee effective business controls and review of business performance.
The terms of reference of this committee are There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for published on the Companys website.
These include the approval of annual and interim results, Bill Whiteley was appointed a non-executive director on 20th June acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure, borrowings, 2008 and a resolution to elect him as a director is contained in the material agreements, senior executive appointments and removals notice of AGM.
including the company secretary, any patent-related dispute and other material litigation, forecasts and major product The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are development projects.
available for inspection at the AGM and at the registered office upon written request.
The Board meets as often as is necessary to discharge its duties effectively.
In the financial year ended 30th June 2008, the Board None of the executive directors holds a directorship in a met eight times and the directors attendance record at Board FTSE 100 company.
and committee meetings is set out at the end of this report.
In addition, the non-executive directors met a number of times without inFormaTion anD proFessionaL DeveLopmenT executive directors present.
The Board receives appropriate documentation, management The Board has two formally constituted committees, the Audit accounts, forecasts and commentaries thereon in advance of committee and the Remuneration and nomination committee.
each Board meeting to enable its members to review the There is an executive committee known as the Executive Board financial performance of the Group, current trading and key that is responsible for the executive management of the Groups business initiatives.
It is chaired by the Chairman and includes the executive Directors are offered the opportunity to attend formal training directors of Renishaw plc, the President of Renishaw Inc and other courses to update their knowledge of their duties as directors.
Guidance notes on changes to law and regulations are provided as A framework of delegated authorities is in place that maps out the appropriate.
Non-executive directors are invited to attend internal structure of delegation below Board level and includes the matters conferences, which provide information to the Group on new reserved to the Executive Board.
product development and marketing initiatives.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors and All directors have access to the company secretary and to officers as disclosed in the Directors report.
independent professional advice at the Companys expense where necessary to discharge their responsibilities as director.
CHairman anD CHieF exeCuTive perFormanCe evaLuaTion The role of Chairman and Chief Executive is a combined role and thus contrary to the recommendations of the Code.
However, the The Board has established a formal process, led by the senior Board considers that there is still a clear division of responsibilities independent director, for the annual evaluation of the performance at Board level to ensure an appropriate balance of power of the Board and the Chairman.
This includes the completion of a and authority.
questionnaire designed and approved by the Board to provide a framework for the evaluation process.
boarD baLanCe anD inDepenDenCe It is the role of the senior independent director to summarise the Each of the four non-executive directors is considered by the responses and discuss them with individual directors and with Board to be independent in character and judgement and there are the Board as a whole.
no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect a nonexecutive directors judgement.
The Code recommends that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
The Board has recently appointed a further non-executive director to the Board and if the Chairman were to be excluded, this Code requirement would be met.
However, as the Chairman is an executive director, the intention behind the Code requirement is not met.
ANNUAl REPORT 2008 directors corporAte goVernAnce report: CONTINUED re-eLeCTion has been in place during the year, and which is regularly reviewed and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board confirms In accordance with the articles of association of the Company, the that necessary action has been or is being taken to remedy any directors who offer themselves up for re-election at the AGM to be significant failings or weaknesses identified from its review.
held in October 2008 will be Allen Roberts and Geoff McFarland.
DireCTors remuneraTion The Audit committee comprises the four non-executive directors.
The Directors remuneration report set out on page 40 explains how A list of the members and the chairman is set out on page 7.
The the Company applies the Code principles relating to remuneration.
Board is satisfied that at least two members of the committee have recent and relevant financial experience, being Terry Garthwaite C. aCCounTabiLiTy anD auDiT and David Snowden.
The terms of reference of this committee FinanCiaL reporTinG were reviewed during the year and are available on the The respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors in Companys website.
connection with the financial statements are explained in the The committee reviews the accounting policies and procedures Statement of directors responsibilities and the Independent of the Group, its annual and interim financial statements before auditors report.
submission to the Board and its compliance with statutory requirements.
The committee monitors the integrity of the Groups GoinG ConCern financial statements and announcements relating to financial On the basis of current financial projections and available funds and performance and reviews the significant reporting judgements facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group contained therein.
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the It also reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of the internal foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going control systems and internal audit function.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The committee has primary responsibility for making the inTernaL ConTroL recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal of external auditors, which the Board puts to shareholders for control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than It keeps under review the scope and results of the audit, its cost eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against The auditors provide a confirmation of independence on an material misstatement or loss.
There are defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authorities.
The committee reviews the nature and extent of the non-audit There are also established and centrally documented control services supplied by the auditors, receiving regular reports on the procedures, including, for example, capital and other expenditure, balance of audit to non-audit fees.
information and technology security, and legal and regulatory The committee reviews the policy by which employees of the compliance.
These are applied throughout the Group.
Company may, in confidence, raise matters of concern, including The Group internal audit function provides independent and possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
objective assurance that the procedures are appropriate and The committee meets at least three times a year with the Group effectively applied.
The Group Audit Manager attends Audit Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Audit committee meetings to present annual internal audit plans and the Manager and the external auditors in attendance.
At least one results of such internal audits.
Actions are monitored by the Audit meeting, or part, is held with the external auditors without executive committee on an ongoing basis.
There is a process for the review of business risks throughout the Group.
These are reported on a monthly basis by senior management and by overseas subsidiaries.
These reports are reviewed by the Board at each of their meetings.
The Board undertakes an annual formal review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and an updated risk and controls analysis for the Group.
The review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Board considers that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the Group that PAGE 38 39 D. reLaTions wiTH sHareHoLDers CompLianCe sTaTemenT DiaLoGue wiTH insTiTuTionaL sHareHoLDers The Board considers that it has complied with the requirements of the Code except in relation to the following matters the reasons for Presentations are given to institutional investors following non-compliance are stated in the report above : publication of the half-year and full-year results, following which interim and annual reports are delivered to all shareholders.
the combined role of chairman and chief executive: and Institutional investors are actively encouraged to visit the Companys at least half the board, excluding the chairman, does not headquarters and manufacturing sites where they will meet at comprise independent non-executive directors.
least one of the executive directors and have the opportunity of discussing any issues with them.
Meetings with investors, analysts and media are reported at each Board meeting and analysts and brokers reports circulated so that the Board develops an understanding of the views of investors and others.
A C G Roberts FCA Secretary If requested, non-executive directors are available to attend 23rd July 2008 meetings with major shareholders.
All directors attend the AGM at which they have the opportunity to meet with shareholders.
ConsTruCTive use oF THe aGm The AGM takes place at the Companys headquarters and formal notification is sent to the shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
A business presentation is given at the meeting and all directors are available for questions during and after the meeting.
Tours of the Companys research and development and manufacturing facilities are offered.
The Company reports on the number of proxy votes lodged on each resolution, the balance for and against each resolution and the number of abstentions after the resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
This information is provided to the shareholders attending the AGM and published on the Companys website following the meeting.
boarD anD CommiTTee membersHip aTTenDanCe reCorD Shown against each directors name is the number of meetings of the Board and its committees at which the director was present and, in brackets, the number of meetings that the director was eligible to attend during the year.
Remuneration & Audit nomination Director Board committee committee D R McMurtry 8 8 - - D J Deer 8 8 - - B R Taylor 8 8 - - A C G Roberts 8 8 - - G McFarland 8 8 - - J P McGeehan 8 8 1 3 3 3 T D Snowden 8 8 3 3 3 3 T B Garthwaite 8 8 3 3 3 3 W H Whiteley 0 0 0 0 0 0
