32 Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance once every three years.
The boards policy is to appoint The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006 32 The board and retain non-executive directors who can apply their the Combined Code sets out guidance in the form 32 Composition of the wider knowledge and experience to their understanding of principles and provisions on how companies should board of the companys affairs.
Appointments to the board be directed and controlled to follow good governance 32 Board committees are made on the recommendation of the nomination practice.
The Financial Services Authority requires 34 Attendance at committee following a rigorous selection process.
companies listed in the UK to disclose in relation meetings Information on the current directors is set out on to Section 1 of the Combined Code, how they have 34 Independent nonexecutive directors page 25.
New members of the board receive appropriate applied its principles and whether they have complied training and induction which includes spending time 34 Chairman with the provisions throughout the accounting year.
The companys compliance during the year with the 35 Performance evaluation provisions set down in Section 1 of the Combined Code 35 Dialogue with major 3.
Board committees is described below.
shareholders The board has reviewed and updated its governance 35 Accountability and 1.
The board audit procedures and practices including the terms of The board is responsible to shareholders for the overall reference of the principal board committees.
Following 35 Going concern direction and control of the company and specifically the changes in the composition of the board and the 35 Auditors independence reserves certain matters for its consideration such appointment of additional non-executive directors 35 Disclosure of as approval of the companys financial statements, at the beginning of 2008, the board reviewed the information to major capital expenditure and major acquisitions membership of principal board committees with the auditors and disposals as set out in the board governance aim of ensuring that non-executive directors were 35 Internal controls procedures and practices manual, which is reviewed able to focus their committee involvement on only one annually.
The chief executive has delegated authority of the principal board committees.
from the board to manage the company, subject to the Agendas, papers and minutes of committee meetings strategic direction of the board.
He is also responsible are generally provided to all board members.
for the achievement of the objectives set by the board and preparing an overall strategy for the company to Audit committee achieve such objectives and the implementation of The principal oversight responsibilities of the committee the overall strategy decided by the board.
cover financial reporting, internal control and risk management, various matters concerning the external The board meets routinely nine times a year and auditors including their appointment, scope of their additionally when necessary and follows an agreed duties, their independence and monitoring and formal schedule of matters which are considered receiving reports from the internal audit function.
In 2008, the board met on The terms of reference of the committee available at 14 occasions.
Details of directors attendance at board www.
com reflect the Financial Reporting and principal committee meetings are set out on Council guidance which is intended to assist listed page 34.
The limited number of directors absences from companies in complying with the provisions applicable meetings was principally due to conflicting business to audit committees in the Combined Code.
commitments relating to meetings scheduled outside The committee reviewed its terms of reference the regular meeting calendar.
towards the end of 2008 and concluded that they In connection with the changes introduced by remained appropriate.
The audit committee has also company law and in the companys articles of reviewed its effectiveness and concluded that it association, the board has adopted new procedures continues to operate effectively.
over the identification and authorisation of potential conflicts of interest which are in line with current best The members of the committee at the end of the year practice and which the board considers to be operating were Duncan Tatton-Brown chairman, chartered effectively.
The nomination committee of the board management accountant, William Rucker, chartered will review the procedures annually to ensure that the accountant and Peter Bamford all of whom are nonprocedures remain effective.
Of the members of the committee, both Duncan Tatton-Brown and William Rucker have 2.
Composition of the board recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee reviews, challenges and approves, as the case may be, The board currently comprises the chairman, presentations or reports from senior management, six independent non-executive directors and three consulting as necessary with the external auditors, executive directors.
Each non-executive director serves internal auditors and company executives.
During the for a fixed term not exceeding three years that may be year the committee had a satisfactory level of dialogue renewed in mutual agreement for a further two terms with the companys auditors.
The committee did not of three years, subject to the board being satisfied with a find it necessary to seek external advice.
The committee directors performance, independence and commitment.
invites the chairman, the chief executive, the chief Each director is required to be elected by shareholders financial officer, the director of corporate accounting at the annual general meeting following his her and control, the director of internal audit and appointment and be re-elected by shareholders at least representatives of the external auditors to attend Governance 33 Corporate governance both in the UK and internationally.
A new head of its meetings.
The company secretary attends meetings internal audit was appointed at the end of the year.
in his role as secretary of the committee.
The committee has had a dialogue with the external auditors without The introduction of a formal policy on fraud executives present during the year.
risk management aimed at reinforcing a zero During the year the committee met on five occasions tolerance culture on fraud and setting out roles and considered a range of matters in fulfilment of and responsibilities in connection with the its terms of reference the principal matters being implementation of the policy.
The committee also summarised below: approved a management response plan to give guidance to managers dealing with incidents of The effectiveness of the groups systems of internal fraud.
A fraud risk management awareness review control and reports over individual incidents of was undertaken by internal audit during the year control weaknesses related to individual businesses and reported on to the committee.
The group has not reported either through line management or the experienced any fraud which is material to the group internal audit process.
In addition to issues relating as a whole although low value incidents do occur to City Link see below, control issues in the UK and are dealt with appropriately.
Washrooms and Australian businesses were also Half-yearly reports on whistleblowing which did reviewed.
In an environment of significant change not contain any material matters of concern and there remains an on-going need to enhance project approved and updated whistleblowing policy and management and other procedures in certain areas.
The control weaknesses in the enlarged City Link business which had emerged towards the end of Reports from the chief financial officer on trends the previous financial year had been the subject of in the performance of accounts receivable across significant scrutiny by the audit committee and by the groups businesses with a particular focus on the board throughout the year.
In particular the the UK Washroom business.
committee reviewed the deficiencies in the operating The companys policy concerning the provision of systems that had been caused by the poorly planned non-audit services by the companys auditors.
integration of various parts of the City Link and In accordance with best practice and to avoid actual Target Express business in the forth quarter of or perceived conflicts of interest, non-audit services 2007 and related impact on management reporting.
provided by the external auditors are pre-approved The committee received regular reports on the by the audit committee within certain pre-defined management, systems and resource changes parameters.
In addition the auditors are prohibited implemented during the course of 2008 which from providing certain services set out in the policy.
the committee was satisfied had resulted in the The provision of non-audit services by the companys establishment of an effective business and financial auditors was at a level well below that which would control environment, although business performance question the firms independence as auditors.
 LLP assisted the company over a number of disposal transactions as well as Various reports and written and oral updates on a providing assistance in relation to tax and other number of control and reporting issues as part of its oversight of the internal control framework which areas of technical support.
The expenditure on neither individually nor collectively were material audit and non-audit services in 2008 is set out to the company.
Financial statements relating to the companys The fees for the 2008 audit and the external audit annual report, interim report and quarterly trading plan for 2008 incorporated various changes in the updates were reviewed as well as reports from the audit scope and geographic coverage.
external auditors on their audit or review of the The process of formally evaluating external auditor financial statements.
effectiveness indicated that the external auditors Activities of the internal audit department including had met company expectations for the 2007 audit.
resource plans, activity levels and objectives, the The process was conducted by means of a overall objective being to provide assurance as to the questionnaire, completed group-wide by members adequacy, effectiveness and quality of the companys of the senior management and finance communities.
system of internal control, risk management and The evaluation had identified minor opportunities corporate governance.
In accordance with good for both the company and the auditors to further practice a periodic external review of the effectiveness enhance the effectiveness of the process but the of the internal audit function was conducted by an committee concluded that the audit service of external party, Independent Audit Limited, during  LLP provided a robust 2007.
The committee considered and approved overall examination of the groups business and changes to the structure of the group internal audit the risks involved.
function in 2008 which involved an increased use of Auditor independence is reviewed routinely.
external resources for the conduct of internal audits Job No: 0934 Proof No: 9 Operator: PM JF BO JF SJL JF SJL JF PM Job Title: Rentokil AR 2008 Date: 23-03-2009 Spellchecked: Y Signature s : Client: SAS Software: InDesign Proof Reader: 34 Governance Corporate governance In line with the Combined Code requirements the Attendance at meetings board undertook a review of the effectiveness of all Audit Remuneration Nomination its committees, including the audit committee the Directors Board Committee Committee Committee results of which demonstrated that the committee John McAdam 8 8 2 2 continued to operate effectively.
Alan Brown 11 11 During the year the chief executive established a Peter Bamford 10 14 5 5 risk committee which comprises the senior financial, Richard Burrows 14 14 5 5 legal and risk executives in the group under the Alan Giles 13 14 1 1 7 8 1 2 chairmanship of the chief financial officer.
The Peter Long 14 14 8 8 3 3 risk committee will assist the audit committee Andy Ransom 8 8 in its review of the business risk evaluation and Duncan Tatton-Brown 13 14 5 5 3 3 3 3 control processes.
William Rucker 11 13 3 4 Former Directors Nomination committee Brian McGowan 2 2 1 1 The main purpose of the nomination committee is Doug Flynn 2 2 1 1 to assist the board by keeping the composition of the Andrew Macfarlane 14 14 board under review and conducting a rigorous and Total number transparent process when making or renewing of meetings 14 5 8 3 appointments of directors to the board.
In 2008, the committee took on the additional responsibility of i Other than in two instances of unavoidable absence, directors nonattendance related to meetings held at short notice where advising the board over concerning directors conflicts conflicting commitments prevented attendance.
ii In addition to the meetings shown above John McAdam attended by invitation two meetings held shortly before his appointment on At the beginning of the year a special nomination 14 May 2008. committee, led by the senior independent director, Peter Long, conducted the process which led to The terms of reference of the principal board recommendations being made to the board over the committees are available on the companys website, appointment of John McAdam, Alan Brown and Andy www.
com, or if a hard copy is required by Ransom, following the resignations of Brian McGowan application to the company secretary at the head office.
as chairman and Doug Flynn as chief executive in March 2008.
Independent non-executive directors In the second half of the year the membership of Under the Combined Code the board appoints the committee was reviewed and now comprises: the one of the non-executive directors to act as senior chairman, John McAdam, the senior independent independent director whose main responsibility director, Peter Long and the next two longest serving is to be available to shareholders should they have non-executive directors, Duncan Tatton-Brown and concerns that they are unable to resolve through Alan Giles.
The nomination committee met on three normal channels and for leading the performance occasions in 2008.
A meeting early in the year review process in respect of the chairman.
concerned the then search for a chairman to succeed Brian McGowan.
Thereafter the special nomination The board regards Peter Long senior independent committee referred to above dealt with matters relating director, Peter Bamford, Richard Burrows, Alan Giles, to the change in the leadership of the company.
Later in William Rucker and Duncan Tatton-Brown as the year the nomination committee reviewed proposals independent non-executive directors within concerning the appointment of Michael Murray as chief the tests set out in the Combined Code.
financial officer and reviewed its existing terms of reference and effectiveness.
In the light of the current 5.
Chairman board membership, there were no succession planning The role of the chairman, John McAdam, is set out in issues on which the committee was required to give the boards governance procedures which are reviewed attention.
In carrying out its duties the committee and annually by the board and in his letter of appointment.
the special nomination committee utilised the services The chairmans priority is the management of the of a specialist firm of search consultants.
board whereas the chief executives priority is the management of the company.
The chairmans Remuneration committee commitment to the company is at least two days The members of the remuneration committee are Peter per week and his main interests outside the company Long chairman, Richard Burrows and Alan Giles, all of are set out in his biographical details on page 25. whom are independent non-executive directors.
The remuneration committee has reviewed its effectiveness The chairmans participation in the incentive during the year and concluded that it had continued to arrangements described in this report and approved by operate effectively.
The directors remuneration report shareholders on his appointment in 2008 result in him is set out on pages 38 to 46. not being regarded as independent under the provisions of the Combined Code.
Performance evaluation The board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its own The company has reviewed its relationship with its performance and that of its principal committees and auditors,  LLP, and concluded individual directors.
Directors completed appraisals on that there are sufficient controls and processes in place matters relevant to board, committee and director to ensure the required level of independence and the performance.
A report was presented to and reviewed company has no other reason to seek to re-tender the by the board.
The board concluded that the evaluation external audit role.
The company has a formal policy exercise had confirmed that the directors had the on the provision of non-audit services provided by the appropriate range of skills and experience and companys auditors under which any such proposed constituted an effective and unified board.
The review expenditure of up to 250,000 must be approved by was led internally by the chairman with the assistance the chief financial officer and above that level approved of the company secretary, utilising a framework by the committee.
In accordance with usual practice, provided by external specialists which covers the  LLP has introduced in 2008 establishment and role of the board, its membership, a new audit partner to lead the group audit process who skills, experience, training, meeting arrangements, has previously had no involvement in the audit of any leadership, procedures and communications.
The committee does not consider that there is any material risk of the companys auditors Individual director evaluation showed that each director withdrawing from the market.
including those seeking re-election at the annual general A resolution to reappoint  LLP meeting in 2009 continued to demonstrate commitment as auditors of the company will be proposed at the to the role.
The non-executive directors, led by the annual general meeting to be held on 13 May 2009. senior independent director, carried out a performance evaluation of the chairman after taking account of the Disclosure of information to auditors views of the executive directors.
The board intends to carry out further performance evaluations but will keep Insofar as each of the directors is aware, there is no under review the method and frequency.
relevant audit information as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 1985 of which the companys 7.
Dialogue with major shareholders auditors are unaware: and each of the directors has The chief executive and chief financial officer hold taken all of the steps that he should have taken as a regular meetings with analysts and institutional director to make himself aware of any relevant audit shareholders to discuss the companys strategy and information as defined and to establish that the financial performance.
The board is regularly provided companys auditors are aware of that information.
with an analysis of the companys shareholder base and with commentary on market views and sentiment.
Internal controls The chairman, the senior independent director and The annual report provides information on and an other non-executive directors make themselves assessment of the companys business, operations, available for discussions with shareholders as required financial position and prospects.
The board is by circumstances or as requested by shareholders.
responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance 8.
Accountability and audit controls and risk management, and reviews the The audit committee assists the board on matters effectiveness of the system at least annually.
In doing concerning accountability and audit, information on which so the group has taken note of the guidance for is contained within the audit committee report above.
directors as set out in the Turnbull Guidance.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, 9.
Going concern risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
After reviewing group and company cash balances, borrowing facilities and projected cash flows, the The audit committee assists the board in the directors believe that the group and company have performance of its responsibilities by reviewing the adequate resources to continue operations for the board procedures as they relate to internal controls and foreseeable future.
In reaching this conclusion the they consider internal and external auditors reports on directors have had regard to the groups operating plan internal control issues and reports on internal controls and budget for 2009 and projections contained in the and risk management systems.
The risk identification three-year plan.
The directors have considered carefully and management process has been in place during the the groups trading performance and cash flows as a whole of 2008 and up to 20 March 2009, the date of result of the difficult global economic environment, the the approval of the audited 2008 accounts and during shortage of credit available in the bank finance market that time the board, with the assistance of the in particular and the other principal risks to the groups committee, has reviewed the process.
For this reason, they continue to adopt The process used to review the effectiveness of the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
the system of internal control involved: the review Further information is contained within the financial review on pages 17 to 21.
Job No: 0934 Proof No: 9 Operator: PM JF BO JF SJL JF SJL JF PM Job Title: Rentokil AR 2008 Date: 23-03-2009 Spellchecked: Y Signature s : Client: SAS Software: InDesign Proof Reader: 36 Governance Corporate governance Within this overall framework management has of the significant risks facing the business and the specifically developed new project management companys ability to respond to these: the review of a guidelines to improve the governance and control of control self-assessment exercise, involving all of the major change projects.
It has also carried out a review groups reporting entities, to assess compliance with the of delegated authority limits in the group as a result of group control framework: consideration of any instances which the corporate centre has increased its level of of significant control failings during the year and involvement in operating business and divisional level managements response to these: consideration of any decision-making, particularly with regard to acquisition significant control weaknesses identified by internal opportunities.
Both of these measures improve the audit and the managements progress in dealing level of governance around operational activity which with them.
reduces the risk of control failures arising from major The audit committee reviews the scope of external change projects.
It should however be noted that the audit, the half-yearly and annual financial statements process of refining the internal control framework is including compliance with legal and regulatory iterative and improvement measures are continually requirements and trading updates and reports to the under review.
board on financial issues raised by both internal and external audit reports.
The audit committee receives reports from the internal audit department covering By order of the board, financial, operational and information technology risks and controls and reviews the performance of the department against its terms of reference.
As mentioned in the report of the audit committees activities during the year the control failings at the City Link business, which came to light at the end of 2007 and early in 2008, have been the subject of considerable attention by both the board and the audit committee and the company is now satisfied with the control Paul Griffiths environment in that business.
Control weaknesses in Secretary the UK Washroom and Australian businesses were also 20 March 2009 the subject of significant management attention.
Further information on the risk management and internal control processes in the business can be found in the financial review on pages 17 to 21.
More generally, the board has identified that the risk of control failings in the group is increased by: the geographic spread of operations: non-standard business processes and supporting IT systems and infrastructure, particularly with regard to acquired operations: instances of significant change, for example the integration of acquired businesses or operational restructuring.
To address these factors, and under the direction of the companys new chief executive, Alan Brown, management has commenced a review of the groups operating framework with the intention of reinforcing standard operating policies, procedures and systems.
This activity will deliver a greater understanding of the required standards for operations and the related performance metrics which will, in turn, lead to greater control.
In addition, there has been significant focus on the quality of finance management across the group and a number of new appointments at a senior level have been made to strengthen capability in this area.
