Corporate Governance Report Compliance There were eight Board meetings during 2008.
All directors were This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Combined present at each meeting with the exception of Noreen Doyle who Code on Corporate Governance issued in 2006 the Code.
This was unable to attend the February meeting and Jean-Pierre Rodier Report, together with the Directors Report and the Remuneration who was unable to attend the May meeting.
Both directors received Report, provides a summary of the Groups procedures for applying a copy of the agenda and the board papers for the meeting they the principles of the Code and the extent to which such principles were unable to attend and commented on the matters to be have been applied.
The Company is committed to the highest discussed in advance of the meetings.
standards of corporate governance and the Groups governance The names of the members of the Board committees are set out policies are monitored by the Board and kept under constant review.
on pages 50 and 51, together with a summary of each committees Throughout the period 1 January to 1 May 2008, the Company terms of reference and details of the meetings held during the year.
complied with the provisions of the Code with the exception that the The Board committees have authority to make decisions according then Chairman, Rolf Brjesson, whose position was supported by the to their terms of reference which can be found online at Companys major institutional shareholders, was not considered to www.
be independent as he had previously been Chief Executive of the During the year Rolf Brjesson, together with the Chief Executive Company.
Rolf Brjesson retired as Chairman on 1 May 2008 and Officer, met with the non executive directors on one occasion to was succeeded by Peter Ellwood.
Since 1 May 2008 the Company discuss Board related issues on a less formal basis.
Following his has been fully compliant with the Code.
appointment as Chairman, Peter Ellwood met with each director and Directors also met separately with the non executive directors as a group to The Board discuss Board related issues on a less formal basis.
Their discussions The Boards primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership covered areas including Group performance, strategy and and to develop and implement a coherent long term strategy for succession planning.
Its other roles are to supervise management, to oversee The Groups global insurance programme is reviewed annually succession planning, to maintain control over the Groups assets and and appropriate insurance cover has been obtained to protect the to establish high ethical standards of behaviour, while developing directors and senior management in the event of a claim being robust corporate governance and risk management practices and brought against any of them in their capacity as directors or officers procedures.
of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Board monitors the performance of management and aims to Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer ensure that the strategy, policies and procedures adopted are not Rexam has a non executive Chairman and a Chief Executive Officer.
only in the long term interest of shareholders but also meet the needs There is a clear division of responsibility between the positions, with of Rexams customers, employees, suppliers and the local the Chairman responsible for the running of the Board and the Chief communities in which Rexam operates.
Executive Officer responsible for the executive management of the Matters referred to the Board are considered by the Board as a Company and the running of the Groups businesses.
whole and no one individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
The written job specifications for the roles of Chairman and Chief There are well documented procedures and controls, including a Executive Officer, as well as that of the senior independent director, formal schedule of matters that requires the Boards specific approval are reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee.
This provides the framework for the decisions to be taken by the Board and those which can be Rolf Brjesson retired as Chairman on 1 May 2008 and was delegated to committees of the Board or senior management.
Peter Ellwood was Chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC ICI until ICI was acquired by Schedule of matters reserved for the Board Akzo Nobel NV at the beginning of 2008.
Prior to that, he was Board appointments and removals.
Group Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc.
Peter Ellwood The appointment and removal of principal advisors and exter final has extensive experience of strategic business issues and is an auditors.
experienced chairman with international business and leadership experience that the Board believes complements and further Changes to the Group s management and control structure.
The Groups strategy, including the acquisition and disposal Prior to his retirement, Rolf Brjesson spent, on average, two days of businesses.
per week in his role as Chairman.
Peter Ellwood has spent, on Matters relating to the Companys share listing.
average, two days per week in his role as Chairman and has visited the businesses and held individual meetings with senior management High level financial decisions.
to familiarise himself with the Companys businesses and people.
All capital expenditure projects over 10m or any capital Peter Ellwood is also a Supervisory Board member of Akzo Nobel expenditure project which, regardless of the amount, does not NV and, until November 2008, he was also Chairman of the meet the Groups financial criteria.
The Board considers that his external directorships do not make conflicting demands on his time Further details on internal control are set out on pages 46 and 47. as Chairman.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 43 Corporate Governance Report Carl Symon is the senior independent director and is available to talk All new Board appointment projects are conducted through a formal, to shareholders if they have any issues or concerns.
Leslie Van fide rigorous and transparent procedure between the Nomination Walle is Chief Executive Officer and has meetings with institutional Committee and the Board.
The Committee has responsibility for shareholders on a regular basis.
Details of other external directorships succession planning and, in doing so, identifies through the held by Carl Symon and Leslie Van fide Walle can be found on management review process any internal people whose skills, page 39 of the Annual Report 2008.
The Board considers that these experience and contribution to the Group would potentially benefit external directorships do not make conflicting demands on their time the Board.
The Nomination Committee reviews membership of the commitment to the Company as senior independent director and Board on a regular basis.
If it is decided that an internal rather than Chief Executive Officer, respectively.
an external appointment would be in the best interests of the Board, the Nomination Committee meets with the prospective candidates Board balance and independence who are then considered and, if appropriate, recommendations Throughout the year the Company has had a majority of independent are made to the Board for approval.
non executive directors on the Board and has therefore complied with the relevant provisions of the Code.
For the appointment of external candidates to the Board, the Nomination Committee instructs and works alongside recruitment Peter Ellwood was independent on his appointment as a non consultants to evaluate and meet prospective candidates who are executive director and Chairman Designate.
then considered and, if appropriate, recommended to the Board for approval.
The process leading to the appointment of Peter Ellwood Board balance 31.12.08 19.02.09 and John Langston during 2008 was conducted in this way.
Chairman with no executive responsibilities 1 1 Non executive directors excluding Chairman 6 6 Information and professional development Executive directors 4 3 For each scheduled Board meeting the Chairman and the Company Secretary ensure that, during the week before the meeting, the Rexam has a Board which is diverse and cross cultural, representing directors receive a copy of the agenda for the meeting, Group and the views and experience of a varied group of people.
The Board business financial and operating information so that they are properly works as a team but independence of thought and approach is informed of the Groups current performance and details of any other encouraged.
Directors of different nationalities with international matter which is to be referred to the Board for consideration.
The business backgrounds have been appointed as a majority of Rexams directors also have access to the Company Secretary for any further activities are overseas.
Influence is balanced within the Board by information they require.
In the months where there is no scheduled virtue of Peter Ellwood who was independent on his appointment as Board meeting, the directors receive the prior month and cumulative Chairman, together with a non executive senior independent director Group and business financial and operating information.
If there is and a further five non executive directors, all of whom the Board any urgent business to be considered in these months and the considers to be independent.
Their professional skills and wide subject of the business can be communicated by a written paper, international business experience are invaluable in constructively the Board may be asked to give their approval using the written challenging and developing the Groups strategy and direction.
resolution procedure as permitted by the Companys Articles The Board is aware of the other commitments of the non executive of Association Articles.
directors and considers that these commitments do not conflict with All newly appointed directors participate in an extensive internal their duties as directors of the Company.
induction programme that introduces the director to the Group A biography of each member of the Board and details of their other and includes visiting Group businesses.
Newly appointed directors, directorships are given on page 39. in particular those who have not previously held a directorship in a UK listed company, are given training facilitated by an external The Board evaluates the membership of its individual Board consultant which focuses on their role on the Board.
The Company committees on an annual basis and aims to ensure that the principal Secretary gives guidance on Board procedures and corporate committees have different non executive directors as their chairman.
All directors receive ongoing training and members of Appointments to the Board the Committees receive specific updates in matters that are relevant Recommendations for appointments to the Board are the to their role.
For example, members of the Board have received responsibility of the Nomination Committee.
All of the current information on the new provisions in the Companies Act 2006 members of the Committee are independent non executive directors.
2006 Act relating to directors conflicts of interest.
The Committee regularly reviews and considers the ongoing membership of the Board, reviews job descriptions and objective criteria for Board and senior executive appointments and oversees talent management and succession planning.
The terms of reference set out more fully the responsibilities of this Committee and can be found online at www.
44 Rexam Annual Report 2008 The Chairman arranges for the directors to visit at least one of the Election and re-election of directors Groups business locations each year to ensure that their technical Article 56 of the Articles states that any director appointed to knowledge, skills and familiarity with the Groups businesses are the Board since the date of the last AGM should be proposed for updated and maintained.
During 2008, the Board visited the Plastic election at the first AGM after their appointment.
Thereafter a director Packaging businesses in Perrysburg, Constantine and Berlin in the US must be proposed for re-election at the third AGM following the and the Beverage Cans business in Berlin, Germany.
Additionally, AGM at which the director was last elected or re-elected.
The Board members of the senior management team with responsibility for the ensures that each executive and non executive director be required Groups businesses make periodic presentations at Board meetings to submit himself or herself for re-election by shareholders at least about their businesses, performance, suppliers, customers, markets every three years.
Periodic presentations are also made at Board Non executive directors serve the Company under letters of meetings by members of the senior management team who have appointment which are generally for an initial three year term.
corporate or service centre functional responsibilities.
On appointment, an undertaking is requested confirming that the The Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Board, is non executive director has sufficient time to fulfil his or her role on the responsible for ensuring compliance with Board procedures.
Any non executive director who has served on the Board for includes taking minutes of the Board meetings and the recording a period in excess of nine years will be subject to annual re-election of any concerns relating to the running of the Company or proposed at the AGM.
The non executive directors letters of appointment are actions arising therefrom that are expressed by a director in a Board available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at meeting.
The Company Secretary is also secretary to the Audit, the AGM.
Under the direction The Board will only recommend to shareholders that executive of the Chairman, he is responsible for the communication of relevant and non executive directors be proposed for election or re-election information between the Board and the senior management team.
at an AGM, in accordance with the Articles, after evaluating the The Company Secretary is available to give ongoing advice to all performance of the individual director.
At the AGM 2009, the directors on Board procedures, corporate governance and regulatory following directors are being recommended by the Board and compliance.
Should a director reasonably request independent will be proposed for election or re-election: professional advice to carry out his or her duties, such advice is made available at the Companys expense.
Name Director AGM 2009 John Langston Non executive Election Performance evaluation Graham Chipchase Executive Re-election All directors, including the Chairman, receive a formal performance evaluation to which all other members of the Board have an Noreen Doyle Non executive Re-election opportunity to contribute.
The evaluations are led as indicated below.
David Robbie Executive Re-election Board member Evaluation led by John Langston is being recommended for election at the AGM 2009 Chairman Senior Independent Director as the Board believes that his international, commercial and financial Senior Independent Director and experience will enable him to make an excellent contribution to the other non executive directors Chairman Board.
As Finance Director of Smiths Group plc, John Langston has the relevant financial experience to be Chairman of the Audit Chief Executive Officer Chairman Committee and, subject to his election as a non executive director Executive Directors Chief Executive Officer at the AGM 2009, he will succeed Michael Buzzacott as Committee The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer meet twice a year with Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM 2009. the non executive directors to discuss the evaluation of the Board Graham Chipchase, Noreen Doyle and David Robbie are and individual directors performance and succession plans.
The being recommended for re-election at the AGM 2009 following Chairman and Chief Executive Officer absent themselves when their performance evaluations.
The Board confirmed that Graham own performance is being assessed.
Discussions are led by the Chipchase has an in depth knowledge of the rigid plastic packaging Chairman except in relation to his own performance and succession industry and market and his leadership skills are driving the successful when the Senior Independent Director takes the chair and feedback development of the Plastic Packaging business.
performance continues to be effective and demonstrates her In addition to the regular evaluations, an evaluation of the commitment to the Board.
In particular, her business experience and effectiveness of the Board and its principal Committees took place knowledge of the financial markets enable her to continue to provide in 2008.
The directors were asked to complete questionnaires valuable guidance to the Board.
David Robbies strong financial and provide comments on Board and Committee procedures and experience and his financial and strategic skills are important to effectiveness.
The results of the evaluations were reviewed by the the Board as it continues to build Rexam organically and, where Chairman and the Company Secretary, prior to being presented appropriate in the current economic climate, through acquisition.
The collective view of the directors was that the Board and its Committees were operating effectively.
Nonetheless, some areas for development were raised.
It was agreed that the Chief Executive Officer would put forward proposals for the enhancement of the Boards involvement with the strategic planning process, Group risks and succession planning.
A full performance evaluation of the Board will continue to be conducted annually.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 45 Corporate Governance Report Remuneration Accountability and audit Level and make up of directors remuneration Financial reporting The following sections on directors remuneration should be read The Annual Report and the Interim Report seek to provide a clear in conjunction with the Remuneration Report.
Information as to assessment of the performance and prospects of the Group.
The executive directors basic salary, benefits in kind, short and long term Company prepares an Annual Report, in which, following their incentive arrangements and retirement benefits, together with annual audit, the Companys external auditor includes an information on non executive directors fees, is disclosed in the independent report to members.
The Interim Report includes a review Remuneration Report.
report to the Company prepared by the Companys external auditor.
Fees for non executive directors are determined having regard The Annual Report contains a Business Review which summarises the to current market practice and the time spent on Rexams behalf.
Groups business strategy, objectives, strategic risks and financial and They do not participate in any incentive or share option schemes.
The Business Review can be found on pages 10 to 37.
The Board recognises the importance of executive directors remuneration and during 2008 commissioned a review of its policy Internal control and risk management not only for executive directors but also in the wider context within There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, managing, the Group and in comparable geographic and business areas.
monitoring and reporting the risks faced by the Group.
This formal process, managed through Audit and Risk Committee ARC Remuneration policy for executive directors and employees meetings, is the responsibility of all of the Groups businesses and T o make a significant portion of total remuneration performance is overseen by the Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit.
based to align the interests of executive directors and senior Separate ARC meetings are held with senior management of each executives with those of the shareholders.
division as well as key group functions including Treasury, Tax, To incentivise and reward consistent and sustained performance Finance, IT, Legal and Supply Chain to review the results of their delivery with a focus on profitable growth, margins and cash flow.
These meetings are attended by the Finance Director and, in most instances, by the Chief Executive Officer and To reward, retain and motivate a team of highly qualified evaluate and develop the process for reviewing the effectiveness of executives to manage the business on an international basis.
the Groups system of internal control, including all aspects To reinforce the Rexam Way values and leadership behaviours.
concerning financial, environmental, social and governance related matters.
The ARC meetings also include a detailed review of the To provide greater transparency and simplicity.
results of internal audit activity covering the financial controls and In addition to basic salary, benefits in kind and retirement benefits, risks as well as the physical risks health, safety and environment executive directors remuneration is composed of both short term of all businesses in the Group.
and long term elements that are related to Group and business In addition to the ARC meetings, risks in relation to each division performance.
and business are reviewed at the quarterly business review meeting There is also a requirement in accordance with their contracts of with senior management.
employment for executive directors to build up shareholdings in the Risk register forms are used to provide detailed reporting of the Company following the exercise of share options to encourage them methodology used to quantify the risks identified.
Trend analysis to align their interests with those of shareholders.
and key performance indicators KPIs are used to help measure and Procedure to approve directors remuneration assess the benefits of mitigation steps taken to minimise and manage The Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by the senior the risks.
The process continued to be refined in 2008 and the risk independent director, consists of independent non executive profile of the Group was reviewed in detail by senior management directors and determines remuneration levels and specific packages to assign specific responsibility for managing each of the identified appropriate for each executive director, taking into account the risks and to ensure that risks were not just the product of a bottom Groups annual salary negotiations.
No director is permitted to be up approach but were also examined from a top down perspective present when his own remuneration is being discussed, nor to vote and closely aligned with the Groups strategy.
The Remuneration Committee considers The Audit Committee carries out a detailed review of the Groups that the procedures in place provide a level of remuneration for the risk profile and as part of this process invites a Sector or functional directors which is both appropriate for the individuals concerned manager to present their risk profile to the Committee, enabling it and in the best interests of shareholders.
to assess at first hand whether the risks identified are being managed The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration effectively and to challenge management on the mitigation measures Committee the Chairman absenting himself from the discussions and being carried out.
During 2008 presentations were made relating vote and non executive directors fees are recommended by the to the implementation of SAP in the recently acquired OI Plastics Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and approved by the business, the risks associated with doing business in Russia following executive directors.
the Rostar acquisition and the risks related to the Beverage Can South American division.
46 Rexam Annual Report 2008 The process will continue to be refined in 2009 to ensure that the Responsibility Group maintains a robust, enterprise wide risk management process.
There are clearly defined lines of responsibility and levels of authority The Companys risk management policy will also be reviewed, in operation throughout the Group, with specific matters reserved to taking into account those aspects of the Risk Management standard the Board.
Businesses are decentralised with operating autonomy ISO 31000 scheduled to be published in 2009, that are relevant and financial responsibility delegated to corporate and local to the Group.
management to the extent that they have approval to operate within defined levels of authority and risk.
The results of the ARC process are reported to the Audit Committee by the Finance Director, Company Secretary and the Head of Procedures and controls Internal Audit providing an opportunity for the Committee to discuss There are formal written Group financial procedures and controls in and analyse the risks reported.
The process of internal risk monitoring operation, including specific procedures for treasury matters and the is regularly reviewed by the Board, which has ultimate responsibility approval of significant contracts.
Corporate and local management for the identification and management of risk, to ensure its continuing are required to complete bi-annual representation letters formally effectiveness.
During 2008 the Head of Internal Audit presented confirming that their businesses comply with the Groups financial details of the Group risks and ARC process to the Board.
reporting policies and other Group policies and procedures.
Details of the main risks encountered by the Group are included Internal audit in the Business Review.
The internal audit function monitors the accounting and financial risks faced throughout the Group and the control systems in operation to All directors are responsible for ensuring the establishment and manage these risks.
Any significant internal audit findings are maintenance of an effective system of internal control.
Whilst all reported to the Audit Committee.
elements of risk cannot be eliminated, the system aims to identify, assess, prioritise and, where possible, mitigate the Groups risks.
Physical risk management Although no system of internal control can provide absolute The internal risk management function together with operational assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups systems management are responsible for monitoring the processes within the are designed to provide the Board with reasonable assurance that Group which identify, evaluate and manage any significant health, assets are safeguarded, transactions are properly authorised and safety and environmental risks faced by Group businesses.
All recorded and that material errors and irregularities are either businesses have adopted an externally verified system of auditing prevented or detected within a timely period.
and assessing the ability of their operations to identify, measure, reduce, control and review these physical risks.
The results of these During 2008 the Group authority levels and related financial limits, audits are reported upon and reviewed by local and senior which include information on those matters that are specifically management in order to ensure that appropriate action plans are reserved for the Boards consideration, were reviewed and updated developed and implemented in a timely manner.
Audit Committee and Auditor The Board, after taking account of the detailed work of the Audit The objectives of the Committee are to assist the Board in meeting Committee, confirms that it carried out a review of the effectiveness its responsibilities in ensuring an effective system of internal control of the system of internal control which operated within the Group and compliance, and accurate external financial reporting, thereby during 2008 in accordance with the requirements of the Code and fulfilling the Boards obligations under law and the Code: and the revised guidance issued in October 2005 Internal Control: managing the relationship with the Companys external auditor.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report.
This review covers all controls, namely financial, operational, The Committee members comprise independent non executive compliance and risk management.
In order to discharge its directors and the Committee meets at least four times a year.
responsibilities in this regard the Board has established and regularly Michael Buzzacott is the current Committee Chairman and the Board reviews the procedures necessary to implement the internal control is satisfied that, as a qualified accountant who has held a number of requirements of the Code.
The Committee also considered the senior financial positions at BP p. l. c. he has recent and relevant revised Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial financial experience to enable the duties of the Committee to be fully Reporting Council in October 2008.
No significant failings or discharged.
Michael Buzzacott will retire as a non executive director weaknesses were identified in the review for the period since at the AGM 2009 and will be succeeded as Committee Chairman 1 January 2008.
The Board is satisfied that, where areas for by John Langston.
John Langston is the Finance Director of Smiths improvement were identified, processes are in place to ensure that Group plc and has recent and relevant financial experience.
Noreen the necessary action is taken and that progress is monitored.
The Doyle, who is chairman of the Finance Committee, is also a member Board will continue to carry out such reviews on an annual basis.
of the Audit Committee and has extensive financial experience gained from her role as First Vice President of the European Bank for The framework which the Board has established with a view to Reconstruction & Development before her retirement in 2005 and her providing effective internal control to both the Group and its joint current non executive directorship of Credit Suisse Group.
Should it venture partnerships is supported by the following key areas: be requested, the Committee has access to independent expert Financial reporting advice at the Companys expense.
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results The Committee approves the appointment of the Head of Internal to the Board.
An annual budget and strategic review are prepared Audit.
The annual programme of internal audit assignments is for each business and are consolidated for review by the Board reviewed and approved by the Committee which also ensures that before being formally adopted.
During the year, monthly the involvement of the internal and external auditors is co-ordinated.
management accounts, including cash flow and capital expenditure reporting, are prepared with a comparison against budget and prior year.
Forecasts are revised in the light of this comparison and also reviewed by the Board.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 47 Corporate Governance Report The policy on the provision of non audit services by the Companys In 2008 the internal audit function and its performance, effectiveness external auditor determines the procedures for the pre-approval of and relationship with the Companys external auditor was assessed such services and the fees paid for those services.
The scope and by the Audit Committee and reported to the Board.
This assessment extent of non audit work undertaken by the Companys external included a survey of internal audits performance carried out by both auditor is monitored by and, above certain thresholds, requires prior the Audit Committee and the businesses.
The Head of Internal Audit approval from the Committee to ensure that the provision of the non will continue to review the role and focus of the internal audit function audit services does not impair the external auditors independence with the Audit Committee Chairman during 2009, looking for areas or objectivity.
The Companys external auditor is prohibited from for further improvement and at the balance of internal audits work in providing services to the Company that would be considered to providing assurance to the Committee and Group management and jeopardise its independence such as financial systems design and overall support for the Groups businesses.
implementation, actuarial services, internal audit outsourcing services The Companys external auditor attends all Audit Committee and investment services.
The Chairman of the Board is invited to attend all Audit Committee meetings and, at the request of the Committee Chairman, The Committee also reviews the Companys external auditors reports the Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director and Head of Internal on accounting and control matters, the Companys statement on Audit attend each meeting.
The Committee Chairman also has internal control systems and, if requested to do so, the annual separate meetings with the Companys external auditor to discuss financial statements of certain Group pension plans.
informally matters of interest and meets with the Head of Internal Directors situational con icts of interest Audit without any other member of management being present.
Prior to the enactment of the new sections on directors conflicts The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which are reviewed introduced by the 2006 Act, directors had a responsibility to report annually, set out more fully the responsibilities of the Committee and to the Board the nature of any direct or indirect interest in a can be found online at www.
The performance and transaction or arrangement with the Company.
Directors are now effectiveness of the Committee is reviewed as part of the main also required to report other situations where the director has an performance appraisal of the Board and all its Committees.
interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company situational conflicts.
The first meeting within the annual audit cycle is to consider the nature and scope of the audit and to consider any additional special The Companys Articles were amended to permit the Board, with reviews that may be necessary.
Further meetings are held prior to the effect from 1 October 2008, to consider and, if it sees fit, authorise approval of the interim results and the final results to consider, as situational conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in place for relevant, the audit conclusions, the results of any special reviews directors to review regularly their interests and report any conflicts of undertaken, the business risks facing the Group and the reports from interest to the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
Any situational the ARC meetings.
conflicts will be considered for authorisation by those directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether The Committee shares responsibility with the Board for reviewing to authorise a situational conflict, the non conflicted directors must act in detail the Annual Report and Interim Report and all other published in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to financial information for statutory and regulatory compliance with a promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits or view to their recommendation and submission to the Board.
The conditions when giving the authorisation or subsequently if they think Committee reports its findings on the audit process and on the wider this is appropriate.
aspects of internal control to the Board.
Any situational conflicts considered by the Board and any The Committee has primary responsibility and advises the Board authorisations given will be recorded in the Board minutes and on the appointment, re-appointment and the remuneration of the in a register of directors conflicts which will be reviewed annually Companys external auditor.
 LLP PwC by the Board.
has been the Companys external auditor since 2003.
The lead audit partner changed by rotation in 2008, the previous partner No director disclosed a situational conflict that had existed before having been in the role since 2003.
The new audit partner held 1 October 2008 and no situational conflicts have been reported to meetings with senior management and the Audit Committee to the Board since 1 October 2008 and up to the date of this Report.
ensure that he was familiar with the Group and its risks.
During 2008, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys external auditor and has recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint PwC be proposed at the AGM 2009.
A more detailed review of PwCs effectiveness will be held in 2009 following completion of the 2008 year end audit, including the transition to the new lead audit partner.
This review process will be carried out as a joint exercise between PwCs client service review team, who are independent of the Group audit team, and the Head of Internal Audit on behalf of the Committee.
The Committee will continue to keep under review the independence and objectivity of the Companys external auditor.
48 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Shareholder relations Annual General Meeting Dialogue with private and institutional shareholders Communication with private shareholders is largely through the The Board believes that it is a priority to communicate with Annual Report and the AGM which is held at a central London shareholders and uses various methods of communication to location.
The notice of the AGM is posted to shareholders with, if communicate with as many shareholders as possible.
There are requested, the Annual Report and any related papers at least twenty programmes for the Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director and working days before the date of the AGM to ensure that shareholders the Head of Investor Relations to meet with the Companys investors have sufficient time in which to consider the items of business to be in the UK, US and Europe.
Presentations are made on the operating voted upon.
The majority of shareholders access shareholder and financial performance of the Group, including corporate documents online rather than receiving a paper copy by post.
governance related matters, and the Groups longer term strategy.
A presentation is made at the AGM to facilitate awareness of the Roadshows are held in the UK, US, Europe and Asia following the Groups activities.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask announcement of the final and interim results.
If it is not possible to questions of the Board and the Chairman of each Board committee meet face to face, meetings are held by live webcast or telephone during the AGM and meet all the directors informally after the AGM.
The presentations made to representatives of the Separate resolutions are proposed for each item of business and the investment community following the announcement of the final and for, against and vote withheld proxy votes cast in respect of each interim results are available online at www.
com, as is a live resolution proposed at the AGM are counted and announced after webcast of the related results presentation.
the shareholders present have voted on each resolution.
A summary The Company also hosts annual seminars for investors and of the number of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution is representatives of the investment community which focus on Rexams available to shareholders at the conclusion of the AGM and can Beverage Can and Plastic Packaging businesses.
The seminars are be viewed online at www.
Following the AGM 2008, webcast live and a replay, together with presentation slides, are a summary of the questions and answers raised at the Meeting was available online.
posted on the Companys website.
An announcement confirming whether each resolution was passed at the AGM is made through The non executive directors are given regular updates as to the the London Stock Exchange.
A summary report on investor responses is prepared for the Board, normally by the Companys Financial and other information is available online in the Investors brokers, after the investor meetings held following the announcement section at www.
Shareholders can ask questions of of the final and interim results.
the Company at any time by contacting the Company Secretarys department whose contact details are listed on the website at On his appointment as Chairman, Peter Ellwood wrote to the www.
com and in the Shareholder information section Companys top institutional shareholders inviting them to meet with in the Annual Report 2008. him in person or by telephone at any present or future time to discuss matters concerning the Company.
The senior independent director is American Depositary Receipts ADR Program also available to meet with institutional shareholders should there be The Companys ADRs trade as a Level 1 ADR Over-the-Counter unresolved matters that such shareholders believe should be brought Program.
JP Morgan Chase Bank N. A. the Depositary for the to his attention.
The non executive directors meet with shareholders ADR Program had been in place for many years and during 2008 at the AGM and may attend analyst presentations made by the a review was undertaken to benchmark the services received from Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director following the final and the Depositary.
Consequently, a decision was made to change and interim results announcements.
Institutional shareholders can request The Bank of New York Mellon was appointed as the Depositary an opportunity to meet with any of the executive and non executive with responsibility for the ADR Program.
Rexams ADR investors deal in the ADRs through standard broker During 2008, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee channels.
Further information on the ADR Program can be found on consulted by letter with the Companys top twenty institutional The Bank of New York Mellons website, www.
com shareholders to ascertain their views on the proposed changes to the or on the electronic trading market, Pink Sheets, at Companys reward policy to be effective from 2009.
the reward policy for 2009 can be found in the appropriate sections of the Remuneration Report.
Some of the shareholders consulted took the opportunity to discuss the proposed reward policy with senior management but no shareholder raised any significant concerns.
The Board fully supports the principle of the Code which seeks to encourage more active interest and contribution from institutional shareholders.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 49 Corporate Governance Report Corporate responsibility All concerns reported are investigated at the earliest opportunity The Group has a Corporate Responsibility CR section on its by the Head of Internal Audit, in conjunction with the Company website, www.
com for the reporting of its environmental, Secretary and, if appropriate, by management of the respective social and governance policies and performance.
The majority of all such calls received, due to their nature, access to policy documents and facts and figures underlining Rexams are normally handled by sector HR management to investigate and involvement and commitment in this important area.
The CR resolve and the actions taken are reported to Group management.
programme focuses on six main areas the environment, our people, The Head of Internal Audit provides an update on all calls received, the community, our suppliers, emerging markets and governance.
and the action taken to resolve them, to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
Any significant concerns would be reported directly Historically, and underpinning its approach to CR, Rexam has a to the Chairman of the Audit Committee as well as to senior longstanding set of environmental management programmes and management.
policies in place and is committed to the protection of the environment and the minimisation of the environmental impact of The Committee annually evaluates and reviews the whistle blowing its operations and products.
Additionally, the social impacts of its policy and the Raise Your Concern process.
business on employees, surrounding communities, suppliers, Going concern customers and other stakeholders, and its responsibilities towards The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to society in general have the highest priority.
The continuing focus affect its future development, performance and position are set out in by institutional investors, the Government, charitable institutions and the Business Review on pages 10 to 37.
The financial position of the the media on CR encompassing social, environmental and ethical Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are issues is acknowledged by the Board.
also described in the Business Review on pages 32 to 37.
In Further information on the Groups initiatives and commitment to CR addition, notes 22 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Business include the Groups objectives and policies for managing its capital, Review and online in the CR section of the Rexam website, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial www.
instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Code of employee and business conduct A worldwide code of conduct, which applies to all the Companys The Group has considerable financial resources, as detailed on employees, has been agreed with the Board and provides a clear pages 36 and 37 of the Business Review, together with established statement for the benefit of stakeholders involved with or impacted contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different by Rexams activities.
The code of conduct continues to be geographic areas and markets.
As a consequence, the directors communicated through the new employee induction process, as part believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business despite of the team briefings in the Groups businesses, and on the Groups the current economic outlook which increases risks and uncertainties.
The Board is kept informed regarding the The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied maintenance of the code of conduct.
that Rexam PLC and the Group have adequate resources to continue Whistle blowing policy in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, Employees are encouraged to raise any concerns that they have they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the directly with their local management and Rexam promotes an open consolidated and Company financial statements.
culture whereby employees have an opportunity to discuss matters Committees of the Board and main terms of reference that are of concern.
Rexam also recognises that there will be times In addition to regular scheduled Board meetings, the Company when an employee might not be comfortable with raising concerns operates through various Board committees.
The Chief Executive directly with local management and in such cases, communication Officers Committee, whose members are the Chief Executive Officer with sector and Group management is encouraged.
and any two other directors, has responsibility to approve certain Rexam operates a whistle blowing policy which is supported by an matters above established financial limits other than those specifically external confidential telephone helpline, available to all employees reserved for the Board.
The other committees and their main terms for the submission of any concerns, including those of a financial of reference are set out below.
The telephone helpline, known as Raise Your Concern, has Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is restricted been beneficial as an independent point of contact for employees to the independent non executive directors.
Where applicable, the and, if requested, the anonymity of the employee is maintained.
date during 2008 on which a member was appointed to or resigned During 2008 there were 64 concerns logged and investigated, from a committee is given.
raising matters, in the majority of cases, related to local business human resource issues and practices concerning the Groups code of conduct.
Concerns were reported through the helpline resulting in the enquiry into two local level frauds which were investigated with the support of external advisors and corrective action has been taken.
50 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Michael Buzzacott Committee Chairman Carl Symon Committee Chairman To retire 7 May 2009 Michael Buzzacott To retire 7 May 2009 Noreen Doyle Wolfgang Meusburger John Langston Appointed 30 October 2008 Jean-Pierre Rodier Carl Symon The main terms of reference of this Committee are set out in the The main terms of reference of this Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 52.
The Committee met seven times section Audit Committee and Auditor on pages 47 and 48.
The in 2008 and all members of the Committee in office at the date Committee met four times in 2008 and all members of the Committee of each meeting were present.
in office at the date of each meeting were present with the exception Retirement Bene ts Committee of Carl Symon who was unable to attend the November meeting.
David Tucker Committee Chairman He received a copy of the agenda and the papers for the meeting Bill Barker Resigned 7 January 2009 and commented in advance of the meeting.
Subject to his election as a director at the AGM 2009, John Langston will succeed Michael Roger Bellis Group Director, Human Resources Buzzacott as Committee Chairman on 7 May 2009.
Frank Brown Director of US Administration David Robbie Finance Committee Noreen Doyle Committee Chairman The main terms of reference of this Committee are to review Rolf Brjesson Retired 1 May 2008 and make recommendations to the Board on the Groups retirement Michael Buzzacott To retire 7 May 2009 and post retirement benefit arrangements including the control and funding of such arrangements.
It considers and reviews external Jon Drown Director Group Treasury advice received in respect of investment strategy, global asset John Langston Appointed 9 December 2008 allocation and funding levels.
The Committee met four times in 2008 David Robbie and all members of the Committee in office at the date of each Leslie Van fide Walle meeting were present.
David Tucker has continued in his role as Committee Chairman following his retirement as a non executive The main terms of reference of this Committee are to oversee and director of Rexam PLC in May 2007. report to the Board on financial risk management strategy, policy and treasury transactional matters.
Additionally, the Committee assists Share Options Committee the Board in reviewing and approving major financial transactions, Any director including currency exposures and interest rate management.
The David Gibson Company Secretary Committee holds at least two scheduled formal meetings each year Jennifer Smith Deputy Company Secretary with full attendance to discuss matters of policy.
Additional meetings are held during the year as necessary for which the quorum is three The main terms of reference of this Committee are to grant options members, one of whom must be either the Finance Director or the to employees over ordinary shares in the Company under the savings Director Group Treasury.
In 2008, the Committee held five formal related share option schemes and to allot shares under the savings meetings and also met regularly during the year for routine business.
related share option schemes and the executive share option schemes.
All members of the Committee in office at the date of each formal meeting were present.
A Chairman is elected at each meeting and the quorum is two members, one of whom must be a director.
The Committee met Nomination Committee as necessary in 2008.
Peter Ellwood Committee Chairman Appointed 1 May 2008 Rolf Brjesson Committee Chairman Retired 1 May 2008 Noreen Doyle Wolfgang Meusburger Jean-Pierre Rodier Carl Symon The main terms of reference of this Committee are to review regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board on the role and nomination of directors for appointment to the Board, Board committees and as holders of any executive office.
The Committee is also responsible for assessing the role of the Chairman and making appropriate recommendations to the Board, and assisting the Chairman with the annual performance evaluation to assess the overall and individual performance and effectiveness of the Board and Board committees.
The Committee met five times in 2008 and all members of the Committee in office at the date of each meeting were present.
