corporate governance Statement of compliance Graham Zacharias, the retiring Finance Director, is also The 2006 Combined Code of Corporate Governance a non-executive director of Umeco plc.
His remuneration Combined Code sets out the principles and provisions for that position is retained by him and is set out in the relating to good governance of UK listed companies.
In this Remuneration Report on page 36. section we set out how we have applied the principles and Neither the Chairman nor any of the executive directors complied with the provisions of the Combined Code during hold any other non-executive directorships or commitments 2008 and explain the reason for one area of non-compliance.
disclosable under the Combined Code.
Biographical details of the directors appear on pages 16 and 17.
The Board During the year and as at the date of this report, the Directors remuneration Board comprises nine directors including the Chairman The principles and details of directors remuneration and Scott Forbes, three executive directors Ed Williams, contractual arrangements are contained in the Remuneration Managing Director, Nick McKittrick and Graham Zacharias Report on pages 33 to 41. and five non-executive directors Jonathan Agnew, who is the Senior Independent Director, Nigel Cooper, Judy Board and Committee membership and attendance Vezmar, Stephen Shipperley and Colin Kemp.
The In accordance with the Combined Code, the Articles of Company announced that Graham Zacharias will step Association require all directors to seek re-election every down from the Board on 10 April 2009 thereby reducing three years.
In addition all directors are subject to election the number of executive directors to two going forward by shareholders at the first opportunity after their and increasing the balance of non-executive directors appointment.
As previously explained in the Directors in the overall composition of the Board.
Report, no director is required to seek re-election at the Stephen Shipperley is Group Executive Chairman of 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Connells Limited and in strict application of the criteria of The membership of the Committees of the Board and the Combined Code is not considered to be independent.
attendance at meetings for the period under review are set Colin Kemp has worked for HBOS companies for 30 years out in the table below.
Remuneration Audit Nomination and held the position as Managing Director of Halifax Estate Board Committee Committee Committee Agencies Limited from January 2005 to December 2007.
The Board considers that both Stephen Shipperley and Total meetings 8 6 4 2 1 Colin Kemp are independent in character and in particular Scott Forbes 8 6 N A 2 both continue to challenge rigorously the executive directors Jonathan Agnew 8 6 4 2 and the Board as a whole.
Whilst the composition of the Nigel Cooper 8 6 4 N A Board for the period under review was not in strict Colin Kemp 7 N A N A N A compliance with supporting principle A3.2 of the Combined Nick McKittrick 8 N A N A N A Code in that at least half of the directors excluding the Stephen Shipperley 8 N A N A N A Chairman are not considered independent non-executive Judy Vezmar 8 6 4 2 directors, the directors believe that the Board currently Ed Williams 8 N A N A N A operates effectively and that all the non-executive directors Graham Zacharias 8 N A N A N A are fully independent of management and that Jonathan Agnew, Nigel Cooper and Judy Vezmar are free from any 1.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman has requested that the Chairman of business or other relationship that could materially interfere the Board attends the Remuneration Committee meetings.
with the exercise of their independent judgment and advice to the Board.
26 rightmove plc annual report 2008 In addition to the above meetings, the Chairman conducts Chairman and Managing Director meetings with the non-executive directors without the There are clear written guidelines to support the division executive directors being present when required.
Jonathan of responsibilities at the head of the Company with the roles Agnew, the Senior Independent Director, chaired a meeting of the Chairman and Managing Director separately held.
of the Board at which the performance of the Chairman was The Chairman is responsible for the effective conduct of the also reviewed without the presence of the Chairman.
Board, for communication with shareholders and for ensuring that each director uses their skills and experience to the Operation of the Board benefit of the Boards effective decision making.
With the The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall assistance of the Company Secretary, the Chairman direction and control of the Group.
Its key task is to approve monitors the information provided to the Board to ensure strategy, ensuring the successful implementation of projects that it is sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear.
and proposals and monitoring the operating performance of The Managing Director has day-to-day executive the Group in pursuit of its objectives in the interest of responsibility for the running of the Group, leading the maximising long-term shareholder value.
The Board has executive and operational teams in developing strategies adopted a formal schedule of matters requiring specific and delivering results against defined objectives to enable approval.
These include, amongst other things, the approval the Group to meet its objectives.
of the annual business plan, capital structure, dividend policy, acquisitions and disposals, appointment and removal of Board training officers of the Company, approval of the Half Year and Full The breadth of management, financial and listed company Year results, shareholder communication and responsibility experience of the non-executive directors is described in the for corporate governance and review of the Companys risks biographical details on pages 16 and 17, and demonstrates and system of internal controls.
a range of business expertise that provides the right mix of The Board receives meeting papers one week prior to the skills and experience given the size of the Company.
There meeting to allow sufficient time for detailed review and are procedures in place for individual Board members to consideration of the documents beforehand.
If any director receive induction and training as appropriate and to seek the has a concern about any aspect of the business conducted advice and services of independent professional advisers, at at any Board meeting, the Company Secretary shall discuss the Companys expense, where specific expertise or training this with the director concerned and record their concern or is required in the course of their duties.
comments in the Board minutes.
The Board also receives The directors disclose a qualifying third-party indemnity monthly management and financial reports on the operational provision between the Company and its directors and and financial performance of the business setting out actual officers as provided by the Articles of Association of the and forecast financial performance against approved budgets Company, which was in force at the date of this report.
in addition to other key performance indicators.
The Board The Group has also arranged directors and officers insurance also receives copies of broker reports and press releases cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
At least once a year the Managing The Group has set out written policies in compliance with Director and the senior management team present a a code of securities dealings in relation to the shares and strategic review and an annual plan to the Board for review equivalent to the Model Code published in the Listing Rules.
The code applies to all directors, other persons discharging The Board meets formally around eight times each year managerial responsibility and other relevant employees.
although meetings can be scheduled at short notice at the request of any director or if required.
In addition to formal Board meetings, there is regular, informal dialogue between all directors.
27 rightmove plc annual report 2008 corporate governance continued Board evaluation Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Groups The Board conducted a Board evaluation exercise in quarter activities through the Full Year and Half Year Reports and the four of 2008 which was led by the Chairman, assisted by investor relations section of its website, which provides the Company Secretary.
All directors completed a details of all the directors, latest news, including financial comprehensive questionnaire inviting feedback on the results, investor presentations and Stock Exchange operation of the Board and its Committees, knowledge of announcements.
strategy and the business and its collective performance.
The Board is kept informed of the views and opinions of The results were discussed at a Board meeting in December those with an interest in the Company through reports from 2008 and it was agreed that the Board was operating the Managing Director and Finance Director as well as effectively.
Actions were mainly administrative in nature and reports from the Companys joint brokers, UBS and Numis.
will be followed up by the Chairman in early 2009.
In addition All directors receive notification of any changes in the status each director completed an individual questionnaire on the of substantial shareholders and at each Board meeting an performance of each of their Board colleagues and feedback update is given by the executive directors on the movements was provided at one-to-one meetings conducted by the in major shareholdings and on the views and opinions of Chairman.
At a meeting chaired by Jonathan Agnew, Senior those with an interest in the Company.
Independent Director, the Board provided input into and reviewed the performance of the Chairman.
Conflicts of interest The Chairman of the Board is responsible for determining, Relations with shareholders in cases of doubt, whether a conflict of interest exists.
There The Board is accountable to shareholders for the were no matters discussed at any Board meeting that gave performance and activities of the Company and the rise to a conflict of interest.
Chairman ensures that effective communication with shareholders takes place.
Annual General Meeting Within the terms of the regulatory framework, the All shareholders are invited to participate in the Companys Company has conducted regular dialogue with shareholders Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2009 where all directors through ongoing meetings with institutional investors and will be available to answer questions and will also be research firms to discuss strategy, operating performance available for discussions with shareholders prior to and and financial performance.
Contact in the UK is principally after the meeting.
with the Managing Director and Finance Director.
The The Company will arrange for the Annual Report and Chairman also participates in the USA bi-annual investor Accounts and related papers to be available on the road shows.
Jonathan Agnew, the Senior Independent Companys corporate website at www.
co. uk Director, is available to shareholders if they wish to investors.
rsp or posted to shareholders where requested so supplement communication or if contact through the as to allow at least 20 working days for consideration before normal channels is inappropriate.
28 rightmove plc annual report 2008 The Company also complies with the Combined Code with The purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to ensure the separation of all resolutions put to the vote of that the Companys executive directors and senior executives shareholders.
The Company proactively encourages are properly incentivised and fairly rewarded for their shareholders to vote at general meetings by providing individual contributions to the Companys overall electronic voting for shareholders who hold their shares performance having due regard to the interests of the through the Crest system and provides personalised proxy shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of cards to ensure that all votes are clearly identified.
Company presently takes votes at general meetings on a The Remuneration Committees terms of reference show of hands on the grounds of practicality due to the are available on the Companys website, limited number of shareholders in attendance.
rsp or by request taken by a poll at any shareholder meeting where legally to the Company Secretary.
All proxy votes are counted and the level of proxy The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the votes including abstentions lodged for each resolution are Committee.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reported after each resolution and published on the reports to the Board on the Remuneration Committees Companys website.
behalf after each meeting and copies of the minutes of the meetings are circulated to the Board as a whole unless a Board committees conflict of interest exists.
The Board has established three principal committees, the During the year the Committee appointed Hewitt New Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Bridge Street, remuneration consultants, to assist with a Nomination Committee, each of which operates within review of the remuneration policy and to set the remuneration written terms of reference approved by the Board.
No person for the executive directors and senior management for 2009. other than a Committee member is entitled to attend the A detailed report on the Companys remuneration policy meetings of these Committees, except by invitation of the and the work of the Remuneration Committee is available in Chairman of that Committee.
the Remuneration Report on 33 to 41.
Remuneration committee Nomination committee The Remuneration Committee consists of the three The Nomination Committee consists of Scott Forbes who independent non-executive directors, Jonathan Agnew who is also Chairman of the Board, Jonathan Agnew and Judy is Chairman, Judy Vezmar and Nigel Cooper.
In addition, the Vezmar as independent non-executive directors.
The quorum Remuneration Committee Chairman has requested that the for meetings of the Nomination Committee is two members.
Chairman of the Board attends the Remuneration Committee The Chairman of the Company would not chair the meetings.
The quorum for meetings of the Remuneration Nomination Committee in connection with any discussion Committee is two members.
The Remuneration Committee about the appointment of his successor to the chairmanship will meet at such times as may be necessary but will of the Company, when the Senior Independent Director normally meet at least twice a year.
Appointments are for a period of up to three years, extendable by no more than two additional three year periods, so long as members continue to be independent.
29 rightmove plc annual report 2008 corporate governance continued The Nomination Committee meets at such times as may be The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year necessary and normally meets at least twice a year.
The and more often if necessary.
Two of its meetings are prior purpose of the Nomination Committee is to consider and to the announcement of the Half Year and Full Year results make recommendations to the Board about the composition of the Group when the external auditor is in attendance.
of the Board, including proposed appointees, and whether The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
to fill any vacancies that arise or to change the number of The Finance Director and Financial Controller are normally Board members.
invited to attend the meetings.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the available on the Companys website, www.
co. uk Board on the Audit Committees behalf after each meeting investors.
rsp or by request to the Company Secretary.
and copies of the minutes of the meetings are circulated During the year the Nomination Committee reviewed the to the Board as a whole.
The Audit Committee assists organisation structure, approved the plans for the succession the Board in the discharge of its duties concerning the of the executive directors and the senior management team, announcement of results, the Annual and Half Year Reports conducted an annual review of its terms of reference and and the maintenance of internal controls.
It reviews the commenced a search for a new Audit Committee Chairman scope and planning of the audit and the auditors findings to replace Nigel Cooper who will step down from the Board and considers the Groups accounting policies and the on 31 March 2009. compliance with those policies and applicable legal and accounting standards.
Audit committee The Audit Committee has authority to investigate any The Audit Committee consists of the three independent areas of concern as to financial impropriety that arise and to non-executive directors, Nigel Cooper who is Chairman, obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice Judy Vezmar and Jonathan Agnew.
Nigel Cooper is a retired in connection therewith.
The Audit Committees principal senior partner from KPMG LLP KPMG with a 33 year career duties and terms of reference are available on the Companys including 21 years as a partner in Milan and London and website, www.
rsp or by request to therefore has relevant financial skills and experience for the the Company Secretary.
As Nigel Cooper had not had any prior involvement with During 2008 the Committee has, amongst other matters, the KPMG Milton Keynes office or Rightmove plc, his approved the appointment of the external auditors, fixed their appointment was considered by the KPMG Ethical Panel remuneration and reviewed the effectiveness of the external to be independent.
The Committee has also considered the need The quorum for meetings of the Audit Committee is two for an internal audit function.
Given the simplicity of the members.
Appointments to the Committee are for a period organisational structure, the open and accountable culture of up to three years, extendable by no more than two with clear authority limits, the straightforward financial model additional three year periods, so long as members continue and systems and the fact that the management team and to be independent.
Board conduct regular financial reviews, the Committee recommended to the Board that an internal audit function was not currently appropriate for the business.
This decision is kept under regular review.
30 rightmove plc annual report 2008 The Committee also discussed its responsibilities to The Groups management has established the procedures safeguard the audit objectivity and independence as well necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for as the needs of the business and agreed that it was practical identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to in many cases for the auditors to be assigned to other the Group.
These procedures have been in place for the non-audit project work due to their knowledge and expertise whole of the financial year ended 31 December 2008 and up of the business.
This would usually relate to corporate to the date of the approval of these financial statements and transaction advice and tax compliance.
Non-audit fees in they are reviewed regularly.
excess of 20,000 require the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In 2008 the bulk of the non-audit The key elements of the system of internal control are: fees related to tax advisory fees, the details of which are provided in Note 6 of the financial statements.
Major commercial, strategic and financial risks are In addition to receiving reports from the external auditors, formally identified, quantified and assessed, discussed members met with the external auditors without the with the executive directors, after which they are presence of the executive directors.
The Committee reviewed considered by the Board: the Annual and Half Year Reports.
The external auditors also A comprehensive system of planning, budgeting and presented the results of their review of the 2007 Full Year monitoring Group results.
This includes monthly and 2008 Half Year results as well as their audit plan to the management reporting and monitoring of performance Audit Committee.
against both budgets and forecasts with explanations The Committee also reviewed the Whistle Blowing policy for all significant variances: which provides the procedure for staff to report any An organisational structure with clearly defined lines of concerns that they may have independent of management responsibility and delegation of authority: about suspected misconduct without fear of retaliation and Clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and conducted an annual review of its terms of reference.
investment exist, including appropriate authorisation levels, with larger capital projects, acquisitions and Internal controls disposals requiring Board approval: The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the A treasury function which manages net debt against Groups system of internal controls and has established cash flow forecasts and is responsible for monitoring a framework of financial and other controls, which is compliance with bank covenants: and periodically reviewed in accordance with the Turnbull A Whistle Blowing policy of which all employees are made guidance for its effectiveness.
aware, to enable concerns to be raised either with line The Board has taken, and will continue to take, management or, if appropriate, confidentially outside the appropriate measures to ensure that the chances of financial line management.
irregularities occurring are reduced as far as reasonably possible by continually seeking to improve the quality of Through the procedures outlined above, the Board has information at all levels in the Group, fostering an open considered all significant aspects of internal control for the environment and ensuring that the financial analysis is year and up to the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
31 rightmove plc annual report 2008 corporate governance continued Going concern In preparing each of the Group and parent Company After making prior enquiries, the directors have a reasonable financial statements, the directors are required to: expectation that the Group has adequate resources to select suitable accounting policies and then apply continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
them consistently: For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern make judgments and estimates that are reasonable basis in preparing the financial statements.
Further and prudent: information is provided in Note 1 to the financial statements.
state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the prepare the financial statements on the going concern Annual Report and financial statements basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the parent Company will continue in business.
and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
at any time the financial position of the parent Company and Under that law they are required to prepare the Group enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent The Group and parent Company financial statements are and detect fraud and other irregularities.
required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are fairly the financial position of the Group and the parent also responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' Company and the performance for that period: the Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial that comply with that law and those regulations.
statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to The directors are responsible for the maintenance and financial statements giving a true and fair view are references integrity of the corporate and financial information included to their achieving a fair presentation.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
32 32 r righ ightmo tmov five e plc plc annual annual r repor eport t 2008 2008
