Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review | 25 Minimum contracted debt commitments The table below summarises the maturity of the Groups debt and also shows the minimum annual commitments under off balance sheet operating leases at 30 April 2008 by year of expiry: Payments due by year ended 30 April 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total m m m m m m m Bank and other debt 1.3 1.3 1.3 557.3 561.2 Finance leases 6.3 5.7 3.0 0.2 15.2 8.625% senior secured notes 126.2 126.2 9.0% senior secured notes 277.7 277.7 7.6 7.0 4.3 557.5 403.9 980.3 Deferred costs of raising finance 5.0 10.3 15.3 Cash at bank and in hand 1.8 1.8 Net debt 5.8 7.0 4.3 552.5 393.6 963.2 1 Operating leases 37.3 30.1 25.0 21.8 19.4 93.1 226.7 Total 43.1 37.1 29.3 574.3 19.4 486.7 1,189.9 1.
Represents the minimum payments to which we were committed under operating leases.
Operating leases relate principally to properties most of which The dollar interest payable on this debt also limits the impact of changes in the dollar exchange rate on our pre-tax pro ts are leased which constituted 99% 224.0m of our total and earnings.
Based on the currency mix of our pro ts currently minimum operating lease commitments.
There are also a few prevailing and on current dollar debt levels and interest rates, remaining operating leases relating to the vehicle eet which every 1% change in the US dollar exchange rate would impact constituted the remaining 1% 2.7m of such commitments.
Except for the off balance sheet operating leases described above, Seasonality 15.7m $31.1m of standby letters of credit issued at 30 April Our business is a cyclical one and we manage it to take 2008 under the first priority senior debt facility relating to the advantage of periods of growth and withstand periods of Groups self insurance programmes and $2.8m of performance economic downturn.
In addition to the cyclicality of economic bonds granted by Sunbelt, we have no material commercial cycles, our business is also subject to signi cant uctuations commitments that we could be obligated to pay in the future in performance from quarter to quarter as a result of seasonal which are not included in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Commercial construction activity tends to increase in the summer and during extended periods of mild weather and to Currency translation and interest rate exposure decrease in the winter and during extended periods of inclement Our reporting currency is the pound sterling.
Furthermore, due to the incidence of public holidays a majority of our assets, liabilities, revenue and costs are in the US and the UK, there are more billing days in the first half denominated in US dollars.
Fluctuations in the value of the of our financial year than the second half leading to our revenues US dollar with respect to the pound sterling have had, and normally being higher in the first half.
On a quarterly basis, the may continue to have, a signi cant impact on our financial second quarter is typically our strongest quarter, followed by condition and results of operations as reported in pounds the first and then the third and fourth quarters.
We manage the due to the majority of our assets, liabilities, revenues and business to accommodate these natural annual cycles.
costs being denominated in US dollars.
We have arranged our nancing so that approximately 94% of our debt was denominated in US dollars at 30 April 2008.
At that date dollar denominated debt represented approximately 85% of the value of dollar denominated net assets other than debt providing a partial, but substantial, hedge against the translation effects of changes in the dollar exchange rate.
26 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review Business and financial review Continued ot her costs all other costs incurred in operating our Presentation of financial information business, including the costs of new equipment and Revenue merchandise sold, advertising costs and bad debt expense.
Our revenue is a function of our prices and the size, physical depreciation the depreciation of our property, plant utilisation and mix of our equipment rental eet.
The prices and equipment, including rental equipment, comprised 22% we charge are affected in large measure by physical utilisation of total costs in the year ended 30 April 2008. and the relative attractiveness of our rental equipment, while physical utilisation is determined by market size and our market A large proportion of our costs are xed in the short to medium share, as well as general economic conditions.
The size, mix and term, and material adjustments in the size of our cost base relative attractiveness of our rental equipment eet is affected typically result only from openings or closures of one or more signi cantly by the level of our capital expenditure.
Accordingly, our business model is such that small increases or reductions in our revenue can result The main components of our revenue are: in little or no change in our costs and often therefore have a revenue from equipment rentals, including related revenues disproportionate impact on our pro ts.
We refer to this feature such as the fees we charge for equipment delivery, erection of our business as operational leverage.
and dismantling services for our scaffolding rentals, fuel provided with the equipment we rent to customers, and loss damage waiver fees: and Principal accounting policies revenue from sales of new merchandise, including sales We prepare and present our financial statements in accordance of parts and revenues from a limited number of sales of with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards new equipment.
In applying many accounting principles, we need to make assumptions, estimates and judgements.
These assumptions, The proceeds we generate from the disposal of used rental estimates and judgements are often subjective and may be equipment do not form part of revenue.
Instead we show the affected by changing circumstances or changes in our analysis.
gain relative to book value in our income statement as other Changes in these assumptions, estimates and judgements have income.
In the year ended 30 April 2008, the gain on sale of the potential to materially affect our results.
We have identi ed used rental equipment, from continuing operations was 9.7m below those of our accounting policies that we believe would 2007: 11.4m on proceeds of 67.4m 2007: 69.3m.
Under a most likely produce materially different results were we to recent change to IFRS which is not yet effective, the Group will change underlying assumptions, estimates and judgements.
in future be required to include these proceeds in its reported These policies have been applied consistently.
revenue see note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
Useful lives of property, plant and equipment Costs We record expenditures for property, plant and equipment at The main components of our total costs of continuing cost.
We depreciate equipment using the straight-line method activities are: over its estimated useful economic life which ranges from staff costs staff costs at our pro t centres as well as at our 3 to 20 years with a weighted average life of 8 years.
We use an central support of ces represent the largest single component estimated residual value of 10% of cost in respect of most types of our total costs.
Staff costs consist of salaries, pro t share of our rental equipment, although the range of residual values and bonuses, social security costs, and other pension costs, used varies between zero and 30%.
We establish our estimates and comprised 37% of our total operating costs in the year of useful life and residual value with the objective of allocating ended 30 April 2008. most appropriately the cost of property, plant and equipment other operating costs comprised 40% of total costs in the to our income statement, over the period we anticipate it will year ended 30 April 2008.
These costs include: be used in our business.
s pare parts, consumables and outside repair costs costs incurred for the purchase of spare parts used by our We may need to change these estimates if experience shows workshop staff to maintain and repair our rental equipment that the current estimates are not achieving this objective.
as well as outside repair costs.
If these estimates change in the future, we may then need f acilities costs rental payments on leased facilities as to recognise increased or decreased depreciation expense.
well as utility costs and local property taxes relating to During the year we reassessed the estimated useful economic these facilities.
lives and residual values of the rental eet which reduced the five hicle costs costs incurred for the purchase, maintenance depreciation charge for the year by 3.0m.
Our total depreciation and operation of our vehicle eet, which consists of our expense in the year ended 30 April 2008 was 182.3m.
delivery trucks, the light commercial vehicles used by our mobile workshop staff and cars used by our sales force, pro t centre managers and other management staff.
Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review | 27 Impairment of assets Revenue from rental equipment delivery and collection is Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment recognised when delivery or collection has occurred.
Revenue at 30 April each year.
Assets that are subject to amortisation from the sale of new equipment, parts and supplies, retail or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events merchandise and fuel is recognised at the time of delivery or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount to, or collection by, the customer and when all obligations may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the under the sales contract have been ful lled.
income statement for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
For the purposes of Legal and environmental risk assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels Legal proceedings for which there are separately identi able and independent The Group is party to certain legal proceedings arising in cash ows for the asset being tested for impairment.
In the case the ordinary course of business.
The results of such proceedings of goodwill, impairment is assessed at the level of the Groups cannot be predicted with certainty, but we do not believe reporting units.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an any of these matters are material to our financial condition assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Management necessarily applies its judgement in estimating Environmental risks the timing and value of underlying cash ows within the value Our operations are subject to numerous laws governing in use calculation as well as determining the appropriate discount environmental protection and occupational health and safety rate.
Subsequent changes to the magnitude and timing of cash matters.
These laws regulate such issues as wastewater, ows could impact the carrying value of the respective assets.
stormwater, solid and hazardous wastes and materials, and air quality.
Under these laws, we may be liable for, among other Self-insurance things, the cost of investigating and remediating contamination We establish provisions at the end of each financial year to cover at our sites as well as sites to which we send hazardous wastes our estimate of the discounted liability for uninsured retained risks for disposal or treatment regardless of fault, and also fines and on unpaid claims arising out of events occurring up to the end of penalties for non-compliance.
Our operations generally do not the financial year.
The estimate includes events incurred but not raise signi cant environmental risks, but we use hazardous reported at the balance sheet date.
The provision is established materials to clean and maintain equipment, dispose of solid using advice received from external actuaries who help us and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, extrapolate historical trends and estimate the most likely level of and store and dispense petroleum products from underground future expense which we will incur on outstanding claims.
These and above-ground storage tanks located at some of our estimates may, however, change based on varying circumstances, locations.
We take our environmental and health and safety including changes in our experience of the costs we incur in settling responsibilities seriously and have very stringent policies and claims over time.
Accordingly, we may be required to increase procedures in place at all our depots to help minimise undue or decrease the provision held for self-insured retained risk.
impact on the environment and keep our employees safe.
More At 30 April 2008, the total provision for self-insurance recorded on this can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
in our consolidated balance sheet was 21.7m 2007: 20.8m.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents the total amount receivable for the provision of goods and services to customers net of returns and value added tax.
Rental revenue, including loss damage waiver fees, Geoff Drabble Ian Robson is recognised on a straight line basis over the period of the rental Chief Executive Finance Director contract.
Because the terms and conditions of a rental contract 23 June 2008 can extend across financial reporting periods, the Group records unbilled rental revenue and deferred revenue at the beginning and end of the reporting periods so rental revenue is appropriately stated in the financial statements.
28 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Board of directors Board of directors Chris Cole, Non-executive Chairman Aged 61, Chris Cole has been a director since January 2002 and was appointed as non-executive Chairman from 1 March 2007.
Mr Cole is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Finance and Administration Committee.
Mr Cole is Chief Executive of WSP Group plc.
Geoff Drabble, Chief Executive Aged 48, Geoff Drabble was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 January 2007, having served as Chief Executive designate from 2 October 2006.
Mr Drabble was previously an executive director of The Laird Group PLC where he was responsible for its Building Products division.
Prior to joining The Laird Group, Mr Drabble held a number of senior management positions at Black & Decker.
Mr Drabble is Chairman of the Finance and Administration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Ian Robson, Finance Director Aged 49, Ian Robson has been Finance Director since June 2000.
Prior to June 2000, Mr Robson held a series of senior financial positions at Reuters Group plc for four years.
Before joining Reuters Group plc, Mr Robson was a partner at Price Waterhouse now  LLP.
Mr Robson is a member of the Finance and Administration Committee.
Cliff Miller, President and Chief Executive Of cer, Sunbelt Aged 45, Cliff Miller was appointed President and Chief Executive Of cer of Sunbelt and as one of our directors in July 2004.
Mr Miller has more than 20 years experience in the rental industry and joined the Group in 1996 with the acquisition of McLean Rentals.
From that time until 2003, he was Vice President responsible for Sunbelts North-Eastern division.
Subsequently, he was one of two Executive Vice Presidents responsible for all of Sunbelts front line operations before assuming his current role in 2004.
Sat Dhaiwal, Chief Executive Of cer, A-Plant Aged 39, Sat Dhaiwal has been Chief Executive Of cer of A-Plant and a director since March 2002.
Mr Dhaiwal was Managing Director of A-Plant East, one of A-Plants four operational regions, from May 1998 to March 2002.
Before that he was an A-Plant trading director from 1995 and, prior to 1995, managed one of A-Plants pro t centres.
