Corporate governance appraised personally by the chairman and, in GOVERNANCE OF RIO TINTO consideration by the board, including a meeting chaired by the senior independent The board of Rio Tinto believes that high strategy, major investments and acquisitions.
non executive director, the non executive standards of corporate governance are This schedule is available in the corporate directors assess the chairmans performance, essential to their objective of maximising the governance section of the website.
taking into consideration the views of overall long term return to shareholders The board is ultimately accountable to executive colleagues.
through a strategy of investing in large, low shareholders for the performance of the The evaluation process completed in 2008 cost competitive mines and businesses.
Responsibility for day-to-day was overseen by the chairman and chairmen Given its dual listed company status and its management of the business rests with the of the board committees with the support of structure as a single economic entity, Rio executive team, with the board agreeing the company secretary.
For the board it took Tinto has adopted a common approach to annual performance targets for management the form of a detailed questionnaire circulated corporate governance to comply with the against the Groups financial and nonto all directors for a response and inviting regulatory obligations associated with its financial plan.
The process for the evaluation comments on a number of areas, including three main stock exchange listings in of the performance of the executive directors board dynamics, board capability, board London, Australia and New York.
and other senior executives is discussed in process, board structure, corporate The directors have referred to The the Remuneration report.
The performance of governance, strategic clarity and alignment, Combined Code on Corporate Governance, the senior executives was assessed in and the performance of individual committees published by the UK Financial Reporting accordance with that process during 2008. and directors.
For the board committees, a Council the Code, the Australian Securities The board meets regularly and, in 2008, similar, detailed questionnaire was produced Exchange ASX Corporate Governance had eight scheduled meetings and ten meetings at short notice.
This reflects the and circulated to each committee member Principles and Recommendations 2nd considerable focus required by the board on and regular attendees for a response.
This edition the ASX Principles, and the New the pre-conditional offer made by BHP questionnaire invited comments on a number York Stock Exchange NYSE Corporate Billiton for Rio Tinto which was eventually of areas, including the role and Governance Standards the NYSE Standards.
withdrawn in November 2008 and the effects responsibilities of the committee, its Statements of compliance with the of the global economic downturn towards organisation and effectiveness and the requirments of these codes are on page 165. the end of 2008.
Details of directors qualifications of its members.
The results of In addition Rio Tintos website contains attendance at all of these board and the questionnaires were collated and further corporate governance information committee meetings is set out on page 160. presented for discussion and debate at a board which can be found in the Shareholders The board has regular scheduled meeting, at meetings of the Audit and section: discussions on aspects of the Groups Remuneration committees and the http: www.
strategy, as well as two separate strategy Committee on Social & Environmental review meetings, one half day and one two Accountability.
Actions were agreed from this BOARD day meeting, which are dedicated to inprocess, for example, the provision of further Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited havea depth discussions on Group strategy.
training for non executive directors in the common board of directors which are Directors receive timely, regular and areas of risk management and resources and collectively responsible for the success of the appropriate management and other reserves booking procedures, are in the course Group and are accountable to shareholders information to enable them to fulfill their of being implemented.
for the performance of the business.
duties and have access to the advice and During 2008, taking into account the services of both company secretaries.
The views of other board members, the senior Membership board has agreed a procedure for directors to independent director led the review of the The board currently consists of 15 directors: obtain independent professional advice at performance of the chairman.
The review the chairman, three executive directors and the Groups expense.
concluded that the chairman was continuing eleven non executive directors, of whom ten In addition to these formal processes, to demonstrate strong leadership of the board are deemed independent see pages 133 to directors are in regular communication with and was making a significant contribution to 134.
The chairman has advised the board of senior executives from the product and Rio Tinto, in particular during the BHP his intention to retire and will remain in his global support groups, at both formal and Billiton pre-conditional offer for the Group.
role until mid 2009 by which time it is informal meetings, to ensure the regular The directors believe that, through this anticipated a successor will be appointed.
exchange of knowledge and experience evaluation process, they comply with the Andrew Gould was appointed the senior between management and non executive requirements of Clause A.
6 of the Code, independent non executive director on directors.
To continue building on the formal Principle 2 of the ASX Principles, and the 24 April 2008 following the retirement of Sir induction programmes, which all new non NYSE Standards.
Richard Sykes, and he is proposed for reexecutive directors undertake, they are election by shareholders at the 2009 annual encouraged to take every opportunity to Independence general meetings.
The Nominations committee make site visits to the Groups operations The tests of director independence in the continually assesses the balance of executive and to meet local employees.
In 2008 jurisdictions where Rio Tinto has listings are and non executive directors and the directors visited the Groups operations in not wholly consistent.
The board has, composition of the board in terms of the Australia, the US and Canada.
The board also therefore, adopted a formal policy for the skills and diversity required to ensure it takes the opportunity to combine attendance determination of the independence of remains relevant in the current environment.
at the annual general meeting in Australia directors.
This policy, which contains the The names, skills, experience and expertise and at the two day strategy review meeting materiality thresholds approved by the of each director together with their terms in with site visits.
board, is in the corporate governance section office are shown in the biographical details The chairman holds regular meetings of the website.
Among the key criteria are on pages 132 to 134. with non executive directors without the independence from management and the executive directors being present.
absence of any business relationship which Role and responsibilities could materially interfere with the directors The role of the board is to oversee the Group independence of judgement and ability to with good governance and strategic Board performance provide a strong, valuable contribution to the direction.
The board also reviews the Groups The board completes a formal annual process boards deliberations, or which could control and accountability framework.
The to evaluate its effectiveness and that of the interfere with the directors ability to act in directors have agreed a formal schedule of board committees and individual directors.
the best interest of the Group.
Where matters specifically reserved for decision or Each non executive directors performance is 158 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Governance circumstances, would not normally serve contracts in the ordinary course of business authorise a situation in which there is, or more than three such terms.
David Mayhew exist between Rio Tinto and a company in may be, a conflict between the interests of has served three terms of three years.
To which a director has declared an interest, Rio Tinto and the direct or indirect interests assist the board during a period of these are reviewed for materiality to both the of a director or between the directors duties corporation transition, at the request of the Group, and the other party to the contract.
to Rio Tinto and to another person.
At the board, he as agreed to stand for re-election.
Material is defined in the policy as being 2008 annual general meeting of Rio Tinto Under provision A.
7.2 of the UK Combined where the relationship accounts for more plc, shareholders approved changes to the Code on Corporate Governance, directors than two per cent of either Rio Tintos or the Companys articles of association to give who serve for longer than nine years must other parties consolidated gross revenue per directors the authority under this regime.
stand for re-election every year.
It is annum, although the test also takes other The board has in place procedures for ensuring that its powers to authorise anticipated that he will retire at the circumstances into account.
Applying these conflicts operate effectively.
For this purpose, conclusion of the 2010 annual general criteria, the board is satisfied that the a register of conflicts and any authorisation meetings.
majority of directors, including the following is maintained by the company secretary and non executive directors, are independent: Sir reviewed by the board before the interim and David Clementi, Vivienne Cox, Jan du Plessis, Chairman and chief executive final results announcements.
Sir Rod Eddington, Michael Fitzpatrick, Yves The roles of the chairman and chief Fortier, Richard Goodmanson, Andrew executive are separate and the division of Gould, Lord Kerr and Paul Tellier.
Executive directors other directorships their respective responsibilities has been One non executive director, David Executive directors may be invited to become formally approved by the board.
Mayhew, who is chairman of one of Rio Tinto non executive directors of other companies.
plcs stockbrokers, is not considered The board has adopted a procedure under Board committees independent in accordance with the Code.
which approval may be given to accept such There are five board committees: the Audit Paul Skinner, upon his appointment as invitations recognising the benefit to be committee, Remuneration committee, chairman in 2003, was an independent non derived to the individual and to Rio Tinto from Nominations committee, the Committee on executive director under the Code.
For full details see page 150. social and environmental accountability and the continues to satisfy the tests for Chairmans committee.
Each committee plays a independence under the ASX Principles and Election and re-election vital role in ensuring that high standards of the NYSE Standards.
Directors are elected by shareholders at the corporate governance are maintained The directors biographies are set out on first annual general meetings after their throughout the Group.
Committee terms of reference are reviewed annually by the board pages 132 to 134. appointment and, after that, offer and the committees to ensure they continue themselves for re-election at least once every to be at the forefront of best practice.
These Directors conflicts of interest three years.
Non executive directors are can be viewed in the corporate governance During 2008 a new statutory regime was normally expected to serve at least two terms section of the website.
Minutes of all introduced in the UK whereby the board may of three years and, except in special Governance structure RIO TINTO BOARDS OF DIRECTORS Board committees Audit committee Remuneration committee Committee on social and Nominations committee Chairmans committee environmental accountability EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Management committees Closure committee Continuous disclosure Disclosure and Finance committee Investment committee Ore reserves steering committee procedures committee committee Board Committee membership Audit Remuneration Committee on social and Nominations Chairmans committee committee committee environmental accountability committee Chairman Sir David Clementi Andrew Gould Richard Goodmanson Paul Skinner Paul Skinner Members Vivienne Cox Sir David Clementi Sir Rod Eddington Sir Rod Eddington Tom Albanese Jan du Plessis Michael Fitzpatrick Yves Fortier Yves Fortier Guy Elliott Michael Fitzpatrick Richard Goodmanson Lord Kerr Andrew Gould Lord Kerr Paul Tellier David Mayhew Paul Tellier Notes 1.
Sir Richard Sykes was chair of the Remuneration committee and a member of the Nominations 4.
Jan du Plessis was appointed a non executive committee and a member of the Nominations committee.
director on 1 September 2008 and also joined the committee until his retirement on 24 April 2008.
Sir David Clementi assumed the chairmanship of Audit committee.
Upon Sir Richard Sykes retirement on 24 April the Audit committee on 24 April 2008 from Andrew 5.
David Mayhew attends the Audit committee in an 2008, Andrew Gould was appointed senior Gould.
independent director, chairman of the Remuneration Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 159 Corporate governance continued committee meetings are made available to The primary function of the Audit committee has full authority to investigate the board.
committee is to assist the board in fulfilling all matters that fall within its terms of its responsibilities by reviewing: reference.
Accordingly, the committee may: Audit committee The financial information that will be Obtain independent professional advice in The Audit committee is governed by terms of provided to shareholders and the public: the satisfaction of its duties at the cost of reference which the committee reviews and The systems of internal control that the the Group: assesses each year and which are approved board and management have established: Have such direct access to the resources of by the board.
The terms of reference are The Groups auditing, accounting and the Group as it may reasonably require available in the corporate governance section financial reporting processes.
including the external and internal of the website and are summarised below.
In carrying out its responsibilities the auditors.
Directors attendance at board and committee meetings during 2008 Board Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Committee on social Chairmans scheduled short notice committee committee committee and environmental committee acountability AB AB A B A B AB AB A B Tom Albanese 88 10 8 19 17 Sir David Clementi 88 10 78 877 Vivienne Cox 88 10 98 7 Jan du Plessis 33 752 2 Sir Rod Eddington 87 10 8 65 42 Guy Elliott 88 10 10 19 15 Dick Evans 88 10 10 Michael Fitzpatrick 88 10 10 85 76 Yves Fortier 88 10 10 66 44 Richard Goodmanson 88 10 7 77 44 Andrew Gould 88 10 84 377 44 Lord Kerr 88 10 10 88 4 4 David Mayhew 88 10966 Paul Skinner 88 10 10 66 19 18 Sir Richard Sykes 3 31 22 Paul Tellier 88 10 88 877 Notes A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended.
160 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Governance Report of the Audit committee The Audit committee met eight times in 2008.
The committee reviewed the SEC the International Standard on Auditing UK It continued to monitor developments in requirements for audit committees financial and Ireland 260, Communication of Audit corporate governance in the UK, Australia experts and the Code and ASX Principles Matters with those charged with governance ISA and the US, to ensure the Group continues to requirement that at least one committee 260, including their judgements regarding apply high and appropriate standards.
member should have recent and relevant the quality of the Groups accounting The Audit committee terms of reference financial experience.
The committee principles and underlying estimates.
No significant recommended to the board that Michael The committee has discussed with the changes were recommended.
Fitzpatrick, Jan du Plessis and Sir David external auditors their independence, and The committee reviewed the Clementi be identified as the committees received and reviewed their written independence of the external auditors and financial experts in the 2008 Annual report.
disclosures, as required by the Public their effectiveness to ensure that the Group The committee has also concluded that Company Accounting Oversight Board Rule continues to receive an efficient and Michael Fitzpatrick, Jan du Plessis and Sir 3526 Communication with Audit unbiased service from them.
The committee David Clementi have recent and relevant Committees Concerning Independence.
advised the directors that it is satisfied that financial experience to qualify for the Based on the reviews and discussions the provision of non audit services by the purpose of the Code.
referred to above, the committee has external auditors during 2008 is compatible The committee has reviewed and recommended to the board of directors that with the general standard of independence discussed with management the Groups the financial statements referred to above be for auditors and the standards imposed by audited financial statements for the year approved.
In ended 31 December 2008. addition, as part of its responsibility to foster The committee discussed with the On behalf of the Audit committee open communication, the committee met external auditors the matters described in Sir David Clementi chairman separately with management, the external the American Institute of Certified Public auditors and the internal auditor during Accountant Auditing Standard No.
Committee communications, and in The Audit committees main responsibilities out their responsibilities.
The members meet reference are available in the corporate include the review of accounting principles, the requirements of the Code, the ASX governance section of the website and are policies and practices adopted in the Principles and the NYSE Code, and the summarised below.
preparation of public financial information, Committee meets the composition, operation The Nominations committee is chaired by review with management of procedures and responsibility requirements of the ASX.
the chairman of Rio Tinto.
The committee is relating to financial and capital expenditure responsible, on behalf of the board, for controls, including internal audit plans and Remuneration committee ensuring that a suitable process is in place to reports, review with external auditors of the The Remuneration committee is responsible for meet the recruitment requirements of the scope and results of their audit, the determining the policy for executive board.
It reviews the mix, structure and nomination of auditors for appointment by remuneration and for the remuneration and experience of the board and the desired shareholders, and the review of and benefits of individual executive directors and profiles of potential candidates for recommendation to the board for approval of product group chief executives.
In consultation with external Rio Tintos risk management policy.
Its the Remuneration committee can be found in search consultants it oversees the review and responsibilities also include the review of the Remuneration report on pages 141 to 157, recruitment process to fill vacancies as they corporate governance practices of Group together with details of the Groups arise.
The recruitment process itself includes sponsored pension funds.
These policies identification of suitable candidates, followed To ensure the committee discharges its include a remuneration structure for the by a formal assessment of each candidate, responsibilities, it meets not less than four chairman and non executive directors leading to a final selection process.
Proposals times per year and arranges occasional comprising a fixed fee only.
The Group does for new board members are submitted to the training sessions which may cover new not pay retirement benefits, other than full board for approval.
On behalf of the legislation and other information relevant to required statutory superannuation, to non board, the committee also reviews proposals the committees role.
The Groups finance executive directors.
for senior executive appointments and director, other senior financial management, monitors succession planning.
external and internal auditors are available Nominations committee The committee further reviews the time to attend all meetings.
The Nominations committee is governed by required to be committed to Group business by The members of the committee are terms of reference which the committee non executive directors and assesses whether independent and free of any relationship that regularly reviews and assesses and which are non executive directors are devoting sufficient would interfere with impartiality in carrying approved by the board.
The terms of time to carry out their duties.
Report of the Nominations committee There were six meetings of the Nominations non-executive directors on 1 September from the boards of Rio Tinto in mid 2009, committee during 2008.
Its activities covered 2008 and 14 January 2009 respectively.
once a successor has been appointed.
executive and non executive succession and Jim Leng subsequently resigned on As part of his annual performance appointments.
The current chairman has assessment of individual directors, the engaged to assist the committee in the not participated in processes to identify his chairman of the committee has also reviewed identification of new non executive successor, which have been led by the senior the time committed by directors to Group directors.
As a result of that engagement and independent director.
business and confirmed this to be following a formal assessment by the The Nominations committee is appropriate in each case.
committee and recommendations to the managing the process to appoint a new board, Jan du Plessis and Jim Leng chairman chairman.
On behalf on the Nominations committee designate were appointed as independent It is expected that Paul Skinner will retire Paul Skinner chairman Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 161 Corporate governance continued Controller, global practice leader, Strategic The members of the Nominations executives, the Group executiveTechnology Production Planning, chief adviser committee are independent with the &Innovation, the global head of Legal, and evaluation, chief adviser orebody exception of David Mayhew.
The chairman is the global head of Human Resources.
knowledge, chief adviser resources and considered independent under the ASX reserves, general manager RTCA mine Principles.
Under the Code he is not Closure committee planning and Rio Tinto consulting geologist considered independent following his This committee oversees the closure Exploration.
appointment as chairman, however the Code management programme in place to manage specifically allows the chairman to chair the the significant financial, reputational and Nominations committee.
The composition of operational risk of site closures.
The COMMUNICATION the committee is therefore also compliant members of the committee are: the global Rio Tinto recognises the importance of with the Code.
head of Health, Safety & Environment, global effective timely communication with head of Legal, Controller and the Group shareholders and the wider investment Committee on social and environmental executive, Technology & Innovation.
accountability To ensure that trading in its securities The Committee on social and environmental Continuous disclosure committee takes place in an informed market, the Group accountability is governed by terms of The committee is chaired by the finance has adopted Continuous disclosure standards reference which it reviews and assesses each director and has ultimate responsibility for which form part of the Corporate governance year and which are approved by the board.
determining the information that requires standards posted on its website.
Rio Tinto The terms of reference are available in the disclosure to the markets under the makes immediate disclosure to the listing corporate governance section of the website continuous disclosure requirements in the authorties of any information that a and are summarised below.
jurisdictions in which Rio Tinto is listed.
The reasonable person would expect to have a The committee ensures that management members of the committee are: the finance material effect on its share price in accordance has in place policies, standards, systems and director, company secretary of Rio Tinto plc, with their rules.
All information released to people required to meet Rio Tintos social and managing director of Rio Tinto Australia, the markets is posted on the media section of environmental commitments.
The committee head of Business Development, and head of the website.
reviews the effectiveness of management Investor Relations.
In addition to statutory documents, the policies and procedures in place to deliver website features in-depth information on those standards in our statement of business Disclosure and procedures committee health, safety and the environment, as well practice, The way we work, which are not The primary role of this committee is to as general investor information, publications covered by the other board committees and, assist the board, Audit committee and and policies and guidance.
Full and half year in particular, those relating to occupational individual directors and officers who are results as well as any major presentations are health, safety, communities, employment, required under various regulations to also webcast.
Presentation material from environment, human rights, land access, endorse the Groups shareholder reports and investor seminars is also made available on political involvement and sustainable other public documents.
The members of the the website.
committee are approved by the Audit Full advantage is taken of the annual committee and currently include the general meetings to inform shareholders of Chairmans committee company secretary, Controller, head of recent developments and to give This committee supports the functioning of Compliance, head of Corporate Assurance shareholders the opportunity to ask the board and ensures that the business of and the global head of Health, Safety and questions.
The chairs of the Audit, the board and its committees is properly Environment.
Remuneration and Nomination committees planned and aligned with management.
are generally available to answer questions, When mandated by the board, the Chairmans Finance committee and all directors are expected to attend committee will consider urgent matters The Finance committee is responsible, under where possible.
Rio Tintos external auditor, between board meetings, and deal with the the leadership of the finance director, to  attends the annual implementation of board decisions on review and advise on issues that arise in the general meeting and is available to answer transactions and other corporate matters.
day-to-day workings within the functional shareholder questions about the conduct of the audit and the preparation and content of areas of the finance directors direct reports.
Rio Tinto Limiteds MANAGEMENT The members of the committee are: finance shareholders may also submit written On behalf of the board, the chief executive director, Controller, head of Treasury, head of questions regarding the statutory audit has delegated authority for the day to day Tax, head of Investor Relations, head of report to the auditors via the Company.
Any management of the Groups operations.
The Economics, head of Business development, questions received and answers provided are chief executive, finance director and the head of Business evaluation and Group made available to members at the Rio Tinto heads of the product and global support counsel Strategic projects.
groups share management responsibility for The main channels of communication the management of the business.
Investment committee with the investment community are through The chief executive is assisted by the The purpose of the Investment committee is to the chairman, chief executive and finance work of management committees in review proposals for major capital decisions director, who have regular meetings with the monitoring performance and achieving by the board and by Group companies to Companies major shareholders.
The senior Rio Tintos strategy.
The management ensure that they accord with the strategic independent director and other non executive committees are described below.
objectives established by the board.
The directors are also available, as appropriate.
members of the committee are the chairman, The Group organises regular investor seminars Executive committee executive directors and the Group executive which provide a two-way communication The Executive committee is responsible, under Technology and Innovation.
opportunity with investors and analysts: the the leadership of the chief executive, for the valuable feedback is communicated to the day to day management of the business, Ore reserves steering committee board.
Surveys of major shareholders setting performance targets and determining The Ore reservessteering committee is the opinions and perceptions of the Group are the Groups strategy and direction for primary governance body over the ore reserve presented to the board by the Groups investor endorsement by the board.
The members of estimation and disclosure processes.
The relations advisors on a regular basis.
the committee are: the chief executive, the members of the committee are: Group finance director, the product group chief executive Technology and Innovation, 162 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Governance management procedures and their BUSINESS PRACTICE Association of British Insurers and is set out effectiveness.
The directors confirm that they Statement of business practice on page 80.
In addition the performance of have completed their annual review for 2008.
The way we work is Rio Tintos worldwide the Group and of its separate businesses has The responsibility for identifying and statement of business practice.
It contains been disclosed on the website in accordance managing risks rests with Rio Tintos business principles and standards of conduct which with the Global Reporting Initiative leaders at all levels within the organisation.
reaffirm the Groups commitment to guidelines.
The Group has defined two specific roles to corporate responsibility.
It provides the lead the management of risk: the board Risk directors and all Group employees with a Dealing in Rio Tinto securities sponsor and the Group Risk sponsor at summary of the core policies and controls in Rio Tinto has a set of rules which restrict the Executive committee level.
In addition, other place to help ensure that high governance dealing in Rio Tinto securities by directors roles throughout the Group include Risk and business standards are communicated and employees with access to inside champions in each Rio Tinto entity.
and maintained throughout the Group.
These rules require those Two of the Groups management Group businesses then put them into people to seek clearance from the chairman committees, the Executive committee and the practice through local codes of conduct and or the company secretary before any Disclosures and procedures committee report on their implementation.
proposed dealing to ensure that they do not regularly review reports related to the Core policies are adopted by the board deal when in possession of inside Groups control framework.
In 2008 after wide consultation, externally and within information.
Clearance is not given during information was reported by management to the Group.
Once adopted, they are close periods immediately preceding the the Audit committee to enable its members to communicated to business units worldwide, announcement of annual and interim assess the effectiveness of the internal together with mandatory standards and results.
The rules prohibit the hedging of controls and the management of material guidance notes to support implementation.
The Rules for dealing in business risk.
In addition, the board and its Business units are required to devote the Rio Tinto securities can be viewed in the committees monitor the Groups material necessary effort by management to corporate governance section of the website.
business risks on an ongoing basis.
These implement and report on these policies and reports and risk management processes standards.
Risk management satisfy the internal control requirements of Rio Tintos core policies, listed in The way Rio Tintos overriding objective is to maximise the Code and Recommendation 7.2 of the we work, include: access to land: business the overall long term return to shareholders ASX Principles.
integrity: communities: corporate governance: through a strategy of investing in large, cost Assurance functions, including internal employment: environment: human rights: competitive mines and businesses.
The auditors and sustainable development internal controls & reporting: occupational directors recognise that creating shareholder auditors, perform reviews of control activities health: political involvement: safety: return is the reward for taking and accepting and provide regular written and oral reports sustainable development and transparency.
to directors and management committees.
These are supported by policies in the areas of A description of some of the material risk, information management and security.
business risks that could affect Rio Tinto is Each policy is supported by standards found on page 24 in Risk factors.
Internal risk control systems expanding on the minimum expectations on The directors have established a process for topics such as antitrust, continuous Risk management policies and approach identifying, evaluating and managing the disclosure, compliance, cultural heritage and Rio Tinto recognises that risk is an integral material business risks faced by the Group.
This process was in place during 2008 and health, safety and the environment.
Many of and unavoidable component of the business, up to and including the date of approval of these standards are supplemented by and that it is characterised by both threat the 2008 Annual report and Full financial guidance notes.
These policies and standards and opportunity.
The Group fosters a risk statements.
The process is reviewed annually apply to all Rio Tinto managed businesses.
aware corporate culture in all decision by the directors and accords with the Where the Group does not have operating making, and is committed to managing all guidance set out in the UK Financial responsibility for a business, Rio Tintos risk in a proactive and effective manner Reporting Councils Internal Control: Guidance policies are communicated to its business through competent risk management.
To for Directors on the Combined Code.
partners and they are encouraged to adopt support this commitment, risk is analysed in Due to the limitations inherent in any similar policies of their own.
order to inform the management decisions risk management system, it is designed to The way we work and many of the taken at all levels within the organisation.
manage rather than eliminate risk and to supporting policies and standards are The principles of the risk analysis and provide reasonable but not absolute undergoing an extensive review process management process are set out in the Risk assurance against material misstatement or taking into account the significant number of policy and standard which is in the corporate loss.
Certain risks, for example natural new policies and standards introduced during governance section of the website.
disasters, cannot be mitigated to an the five years since its original release.
acceptable degree using internal controls.
Roles and responsibilities Such major risks are transferred to third Whistle blowing programme The Risk policy and standard is supported by parties in the international insurance The board has adopted a Groupwide whistle an integrated framework of risk governance markets, to the extent considered blowing programme called Speak-OUT.
and reporting specifying how the Group appropriate.
The Group has material Employees are encouraged to report any organises the handling of risk.
Together with investments in a number of jointly controlled concerns, including any suspicion of a the policy, the supporting roles and entities and associates.
Where Rio Tinto does violation of the Groups financial reporting infrastructure, the framework makes up the not have managerial control, it cannot or environmental procedures, through an complete Rio Tinto approach to risk analysis guarantee that local management of mining independent third party and without fear of and management.
and related assets will comply with Rio Tinto recrimination.
A process has been The directors are responsible for the standards or objectives.
Accordingly, the established for the investigation of any Groups system of internal controls and for review of their internal controls is less matters reported with clear lines of reporting reviewing annually its effectiveness in comprehensive than that of the Groups and responsibility in each Group business.
providing shareholders with a return on their managed operations.
investments that is consistent with a Each year, the leaders of the Groups Sustainable development responsible assessment and mitigation of businesses and administrative offices Rio Tintos report on Sustainable risks.
This includes reviewing financial, complete an internal control questionnaire development follows the guidelines of the operational and compliance controls and risk Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 163 Corporate governance continued management and the directors of the that seeks to confirm that adequate internal adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups Companies: and provide reasonable assurance controls are in place, are operating systems for risk management, internal regarding prevention or timely detection of effectively and are designed to capture and control, and governance together with ideas unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition evaluate failings and weaknesses, if any and recommendations to improve those of the Companys assets that could have a exist, and take prompt action, as appropriate.
The function has adopted material effect on the financial statements.
The results of this process are reviewed by international auditing standards set by the There were no significant changes in the the Executive committee, then presented to Institute of Internal Auditors Inc. internal controls or in other factors that the Audit committee and the board as a The function operates independently of could significantly affect internal controls of further part of their review of the Groups management, under a mandate approved by each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited internal controls.
This process is continually the Audit committee and the Committee on subsequent to the date of their most recent reviewed and strengthened, as appropriate.
social and environmental accountability CSEA evaluation.
Specialist risk staff in the corporate Risk and has full access to all functions, records, Competence Centre manage a risk training property and personnel of the Group.
Rio Tinto provides a range of tools head of Corporate Assurance reports Financial statements and other forms of support to assist the functionally to both the Audit committee and The directors are required to prepare implementation of the risk analysis and CSEA, providing each committee with financial statements for each financial information relevant to their specific terms management approach.
period which give a true and fair view of the of reference.
state of affairs of the Group as at the end of A risk based approach is used to focus AUDITORS AND INTERNAL ASSURANCE the financial period and of the profit or loss assurance activities on high risk areas and Auditor independence and cash flows for that period.
This includes audit plans are presented annually to the As indicated in the Audit committee section preparing financial statements in accordance Audit committee and CSEA for approval.
on pages 159 to 161, Rio Tinto has adopted with UK company law which give a true and In respect of its internal audit function, policies designed to uphold the fair view of the state of the Companys Rio Tinto has an external service provider.
independence of the Groups principal affairs, and preparing a Remuneration report The Audit committee has a policy which external auditors by prohibiting their which includes the information required by addresses conflicts of interest in relation to engagement to provide a range of accounting Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the UK Companies management requested engagements of the and other professional services that might Act 1985 and the Australian Corporations service provider.
The policy complies with compromise their appointment as Act 2001. the Institute of Internal Auditors independent auditors.
The directors are responsible for International Standards on independence.
The engagement of the Groups principal maintaining proper accounting records, in Certain services are pre-approved under the auditors to provide statutory audit services, accordance with the UK Companies Act 1985 policy as they would not be in conflict with other services pursuant to legislation, and the Australian Corporations Act 2001. the internal auditors role.
There is a list of taxation services and certain other services They have a general responsibility for taking prohibited services which may not be are pre approved.
Any engagement of the such steps as are reasonably open to them to undertaken without approval of the head of Groups principal auditors to provide other safeguard the assets of the Group and to Corporate Assurance, and guidance on the prevent and detect fraud and other permitted services is subject to the specific consideration of services which may give rise irregularities.
The directors are also approval of the Audit committee or its to a conflict of interest.
responsible for ensuring that appropriate chairman.
systems are in place to maintain and Prior to the commencement of each preserve the integrity of the Groups website.
financial year the Groups finance director FINANCIAL REPORTING Legislation in the UK governing the and its principal auditors submit to the Audit Internal control preparation and dissemination of financial committee a schedule of the types of services Management is responsible for establishing statements may differ from current and that are expected to be performed during the and maintaining adequate internal control future legislation in other jurisdictions.
The following year for its approval.
The Audit over financial reporting.
Internal control over work carried out by the auditors does not committee may impose a US dollar limit on financial reporting is a process designed involve consideration of such developments the total value of other permitted services under the supervision of the chief executive and, accordingly, the auditors accept no that can be provided.
Any non audit service and finance director to provide reasonable responsibility for any changes, should any be provided by the Groups principal auditors, assurance regarding the reliability of financial made, to the financial statements after they where the expected fee exceeds a pre reporting and the preparation and fair are made available on the website.
determined level, must be subject to the presentation of the Groups published The directors, senior executives, senior Groups normal tender procedures.
financial statements for external reporting financial managers and other members of In exceptional circumstances the finance purposes in accordance with IFRS.
staff who are required to exercise judgement director is authorised to engage the Groups Because of its inherent limitations, in the course of the preparation of the principal auditors to provide such services internal control over financial reporting financial statements are required to conduct without going to tender, but if the fees are cannot provide absolute assurance, and may themselves with integrity and honesty and in expected to exceed US$250,000 then the not prevent or detect all misstatements accordance with the ethical standards of chairman of the Audit committee must whether caused by error or fraud, if any, their profession and or business.
within each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto The directors consider that the 2008 The remuneration of the Groups Limited.
Annual report and Full financial statements principal auditors for audit services and other The Groups internal control over present a true and fair view and have been services, as well as remuneration payable to financial reporting includes policies and prepared in accordance with applicable other accounting firms, has been set out in procedures that pertain to the maintenance of accounting standards, using the most note 43 to the 2008 Full financial statements.
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately appropriate accounting policies for Rio The board has established a policy that and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions Tintos business and supported by reasonable the principal auditors engagement partners of assets: provide reasonable assurances that judgements and estimates.
The accounting will rotate every five years.
transactions are recorded as necessary to policies have been consistently applied.
The permit preparation of financial statements in directors have received a written statement Corporate Assurance accordance with IFRS, and that receipts and from the chief executive and the finance The Corporate Assurance function provides expenditures are being made only in director to this effect.
In accordance with the independent and objective assurance on the accordance with authorisation of 164 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Governance internal control requirements of the Code on page 161.
This committee does not and the ASX Principles Recommendation 7.3, develop corporate governance principles for this written statement relies on a sound the boards approval.
The board itself system of risk management and internal performs this task and approves the Groups compliance and controls which implements overall system of governance and internal the policies adopted by the board and controls.
confirms that the Groups risk management and internal compliance and control systems New Zealand Stock Exchange are operating efficiently and effectively in all Rio Tinto Limited is also listed on the New material respects.
Zealand Stock Exchange NZX which has a Corporate Governance Best Practice Code Disclosure controls and procedures the NZX Code.
As an overseas listed issuer Management, with the participation of the on the NZX, Rio Tinto Limited is deemed to chief executive and finance director, has comply generally with the NZX Listing Rules, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and including the NZX Code, while it remains operation of the Groups disclosure controls listed on the ASX.
Whilst the ASX Principles and procedures as of the end of the period and the NZX Code are substantially the covered by this report and have concluded same, there may be some ASX Principles or that these disclosure controls and procedures other ASX corporate governance rules which were effective at a reasonable assurance differ materially from the NZXs corporate level.
governance rules or the NZX Code.
The ASX Principles and other corporate governance COMPLIANCE STATEMENTS rules can be found on the ASX website: The Code www.
By virtue of its UK listing, Rio Tinto is required to state how it has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Code and which relate to its directors, remuneration, accountability and audit and relations with shareholders.
This Annual report provides a statement to satisfy that obligation.
Rio Tinto is also required to disclose whether it has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code and to provide an explanation where it does not.
Rio Tinto confirms that it has continued to comply fully with the detailed provisions of Section 1 of the Code throughout 2008.
ASX Principles The Listing Rules of the ASX require Rio Tinto to report the extent to which it complies with the good practice recommendations in the ASX Principles and the reasons for any non compliance.
Rio Tinto confirms that it has continued to comply fully with the ASX Principles throughout 2008.
NYSE Standards Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the NYSE, is obliged by the NYSE Standards to disclose any significant ways in which its practices of corporate governance differ from the NYSE standards.
The Company has reviewed the NYSE Standards and believes that its practices are broadly consistent with them, with one exception.
The NYSE Standards state that companies must have a nominating corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors and with written terms of reference which, in addition to identifying individuals qualified to become board members, develops and recommends to the board a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the Company.
Rio Tinto has a Nominations committee, information about which is set out Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 165 At the QMM minerals sands operations at Fort-Dauphin in south eastern Madagascar, Rio Tinto is building for growth.
Utilising rock quarried locally, the construction of a new deep sea port of Ehoala, and the surrounding roads and infrastructure will enable ilmenite from the mine to be shipped to Rio Tintos processing facilities in Canada, and will also contribute to the economic development of the region.
