CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ROTORK P. L. C. BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Rotork Management Board is the The Boards work is supported by the different Board Committees.
Executive Committee of Rotork directors which is These are made up of independent non-executive directors who responsible for the development, implementation are responsible for the overall governance of the Group.
and execution of Group strategy.
Executive directors are invited to attend meetings on an as-needed basis.
ROTORK MANAGEMENT BOARD SEE PAGE 29 AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE DIVISIONAL BOARDS SEE PAGE 35 SEE PAGE 37 SEE PAGE 34 This section of the Report deals with CODE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT under the Audit Committee and Risk All current serving executive directors now how the Board and its Committees Management headings below.
discharge their duties and how we apply have a one year notice period in their service The processes that are used by the Board contracts [B.
Following the appointment the principles in the UKs Combined to review the effectiveness of this system Code on Corporate Governance the of JE Nicholas as a director in February 2008, of internal control include the following currently there are three independent nonCode.
Here you will nd detailed [C. 2.1]: statements concerning our compliance executives as accepted by the Code on the Board and the Board Committees.
with the provisions of the Code.
The During the year the Audit Committee: role that Board Committees play in They are IG King, A Walker and JE Nicholas Monitored and reviewed the effectiveness [A.
As Rotork p. l. c. is considered a large UK corporate governance is very of internal audit activities: significant and certain responsibilities company by the Code it is recognised that full compliance currently would require one need to be overseen by directors who Reviewed and monitored external auditor are independent of the activities they further independent non-executive to be independence and objectivity and the appointed so that half the Board excluding are required to oversee.
effectiveness of the audit process: the Chairman comprise independent nonThe following pages set out how Considered reports from management, executive directors [ A.
internal and external audit on the system the Company applies the main and supporting principles of the Code Subject to the matter of the number of of internal financial control and any independent non-executives referred to in material control weaknesses: applicable to the accounting period applying to this Annual Report & this paragraph, the Company considers that Received reports on health & safety and it complies with the provisions of the Code.
Specic disclosures required environmental issues: within the provisions of the Code are INTERNAL CONTROL Discussed with management the range of also made within this section.
The Board has responsibility for the Groups actions taken on problem areas for the system of internal control and risk business identied by Board members or KEY management and reviews its effectiveness in the internal and external audit reports.
annually in accordance with the latest [ ] Combined Code compliant [ ] Issue under review Turnbull guidance and the Code [C. 2.1].
Additionally: The review covers financial, operational, The Board receives copies of the minutes compliance and risk management controls.
of all Audit Committee meetings and a The role of management is to implement brieng on all Audit Committee meetings and maintain the internal control and risk by the Committee Chairman: management systems.
The system of internal control is designed to reduce The Board reviews the role of insurances but cannot eliminate the risks of failure to in managing risk across the Group: meet business objectives.
Internal control The Board regularly receives written and therefore can only provide reasonable but oral reports from management on all not absolute assurance in meeting such aspects of production, operations, business objectives or against material financial and risk management matters.
Further details of the Groups internal controls are disclosed ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 32 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Prior to the year end the full Board, ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION following detailed consideration by the MEETING COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Audit Committee, formally reviews the RH Arnold 8 effectiveness of the Groups system of 1 1 PI France 82 3 internal control.
GM Ogden 8 1 RE Slater 83 RISK MANAGEMENT 2 1 1 WH Whiteley 31 1 2 A continuous process for identifying, IG King 61 3 2 evaluating and managing the significant risks 1 1 RC Lockwood 83 3 2 faced by the Group continued to be applied 2 JW Matthews 31 1 and developed during the year under review A Walker 73 3 2 and operated up to the date of approval of 3 JE Nicholas 63 3 the Annual Report & Accounts.
2 WH Whiteley and JW Matthews resigned from the Board on 2 May 2008.
Senior managers with responsibility 3 JE Nicholas joined the board on 28 February 2008. across all functions participate in the risk management process that identies any THE BOARD presentations from them.
During the year new key risks facing the Groups businesses, The Board currently has eight members under review the Board visited and held a evaluates them and re-evaluates those key comprising: the Chairman, the three Board meeting at its manufacturing site in risks already identied on a regular basis.
In May 2009 visits to Spain, Their deliberations are reported to the Audit as accepted by the Code, and four Germany and the Netherlands are planned.
This process is based executive directors.
The Chairman ensures through the on senior managers detailed knowledge The Companys Articles of Association Company Secretary that the Board Agenda and understanding of key risks within and provide that one third of the directors shall and all relevant information is provided to external to the business based on formal retire from ofce by rotation at each Annual the Board sufciently in advance of management information and reports and General Meeting AGM.
The Chairman and Company their interaction and daily dealings with new directors are subject to election by Secretary discuss the Agenda ahead of those reporting directly to them, their shareholders at the first opportunity after every meeting.
At meetings the Chairman colleagues and external parties.
In line with ensures that all directors are able to make This year the process included separate the Code guidance non-executive directors an effective contribution throughout exercises to identify and evaluate key risks are normally appointed for an initial term meetings and every director is encouraged at divisional level by each divisional Board.
of three years, which is then reviewed to participate and provide opinions for each These divisional key risks were then collated and extended for up to a further two three Agenda item.
The Chairman always seeks and considered for Group materiality.
On appointment to achieve unanimous decisions of the were then evaluated formally at a Group directors receive a suitable and tailored Board following due discussion of Agenda risk review exercise attended by all induction [A.
There is a clear division items.
The Schedule of Reserved Matters members of the divisional Board and the of responsibility approved by the Board details those matters specically reserved Rotork Management Board.
The Chairman in writing between the Chairman, for Board decision.
The types of decision and two of the three non-executive RC Lockwood, and the Chief Executive, which are reserved for Board decision relate directors also attended.
The output of that PI France, that ensures that there is a to matters which cannot, or the Board meeting identied risks with weightings for balance of power and authority between considers should not, be delegated to the likelihood and Group impact.
The principal the running of the Board and the executive Chief Executive and executive risks and uncertainties facing the Group are responsibility for the running of the management.
They include approval of commented on in the Business Review Companys business [A.
JW Matthews Group commercial strategy and succession section of this Annual Report & Accounts was the senior independent non-executive planning, approval of Group annual on page 24. director until his retirement from the Board operating and capital expenditure budgets in May 2008.
IG King is the current senior and recommendations for payment of the Internal financial audits are undertaken independent non-executive director [A.
final proposed dividend and decisions for on a regular basis by a selected group of interim dividends and dividend policy, accountants drawn from head ofce and DIRECTORS ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND approval of the Annual Report & Accounts across the divisional businesses and COMMITTEE MEETINGS [A.
1.2] and announcements of final and interim geographic centres.
All these accountants Attendance at Board and scheduled results, ensuring sound internal control and have received relevant and specic training committee meetings is shown above.
risk management, executive director in internal audit, best practice and control There are usually seven meetings of the remuneration, corporate governance procedures, including health & safety.
Board which take place throughout the matters including Board and Committee Work will continue to further embed year [A.
performance appraisals and Board and internal control and risk management in the Committee membership.
The directors also During the year Board meetings are operations of the business and to further have powers to issue and buy back the scheduled at manufacturing sites other enhance and add to the relevant processes.
Companys shares conferred annually by the than the Companys headquarters and shareholders at the AGM.
The Board manufacturing site in Bath.
This allows, in regularly considers and discusses future particular, non-executive directors to meet strategy, following submissions by management at these sites and receive ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE management, at Board meetings and, on REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMPOSITION The Nomination Committees members occasion, separate strategy meetings.
The non-executive directors constructively during the year under review were RC Lockwood who chairs the Committee, challenge and help develop proposals on strategy at those meetings.
The decisions A Walker, IG King, JE Nicholas, PI France and JW Matthews and WH Whiteley.
which are left to management are all those related to the successful operation and Following the appointment of JE Nicholas, for which a search by an external management of the Companys business and in implementing the commercial consultancy was undertaken and the resignation during the year of WH Whiteley strategy within the limits set by the Board annually for overall operational budgets and JW Matthews, the Nomination Committee now again comprises three and capital expenditure [A.
independent directors, the Chief Executive The Chairman ensures that meetings of and the Chairman.
A majority of the non-executives without the executives members of the Nomination Committee ROGER LOCKWOOD, present are held [A.
All directors have CHAIRMAN are therefore independent non-executive access to the advice and services of the directors as accepted by the Code [A.
Company Secretary and through him they THE TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE NOMINATION By recommending John Nicholass can request and obtain independent COMMITTEE CAN BE ACCESSED ON THE COMPANYS appointment to the Board, the professional advice at the Companys WEBSITE IN THE INVESTORS SECTION [A.
Nomination Committee ensured the expense where they judge it necessary to ACTIVITIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Audit Committee continues to include discharge their responsibilities as directors DURING THE YEAR a non-executive with significant, recent [A.
The Company maintains A major part of the work of the Committee and relevant financial experience and appropriate directors and ofcers during the year involved the selection of that all Board Committees have a insurance cover [A.
an additional independent non-executive membership of three independent PERFORMANCE EVALUATION director, JE Nicholas, and the new senior non-executive directors.
A formal process for performance independent director, IG King [A.
evaluation of the Board, its Committees John Nicholas was appointed following RESPONSIBILITIES and individual directors takes place a search by an external search consultancy Reviewing regularly the composition of annually.
For 2008, the evaluation took and interviews with two short-listed the Board and making recommendations the form of a questionnaire prepared in candidates involving all members of the to the Board on any desired changes: conjunction with external consultants Board [A.
In making the appointment covering a wide range of Board related the Board took due account of the balance Planning for the orderly succession of matters.
This questionnaire was developed of skills, knowledge and experience on new directors to the Board including, and enhanced following feedback in the Board including the Code requirement identifying and nominating for the Boards previous evaluations to focus on those that at least one member of the Audit approval suitable candidates to ll nonmatters that the Chairman considered Committee should have recent and relevant executive vacancies: were of most interest to Board members.
Recommending to the Board the The results and analysis including the main membership of Board Committees.
findings of the evaluation were reported to the Board.
Appropriate action will be taken on the findings during the following year and then re-evaluated at the next annual evaluation [A.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE JW Matthews stepped down as Chairman responsiveness to internal audit of and as a member of the Committee on recommendations is reviewed.
JE Nicholas became audit performance and effectiveness is Chairman of the Committee on 1 March reviewed.
The other members of the Committee mitigating controls are also submitted during the year were A Walker and IG King.
to the Audit Committee for review.
There were therefore at all times throughout The Committee discusses with the external the year three independent non-executive auditor before the audit commences the directors who were members of the Audit nature and scope of the audit and reviews Committee [C. 3.1].
The Board is satisfied steps taken by the Auditor to respond to that at least one member of the Committee, regulatory requirements.
JE Nicholas, has recent and relevant financial experience having recently served as a The matter of auditor independence is Finance Director of a large listed company.
The Auditor The Finance Director, Chief Executive, does provide non-audit services.
The Audit JOHN NICHOLAS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Chairman and the external auditors normally Committee has approved a written policy attend meetings and there is a meeting at for non-audit work conducted by the least once a year between the Committee Auditor.
Whenever a non-audit work I am pleased to report to you as and the external auditors at which instruction excluding tax advice exceeds Chairman of the Audit Committee and management is not present.
10,000 in fee value the Finance Director would like to take this opportunity to must clear the instruction in advance with thank my predecessor, John Matthews, ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE the Audit Committee Chairman.
If nonfor his contribution during his tenure as DURING THE YEAR audit instructions in aggregate exceed Committee Chairman.
During 2008 the The Committee meets at least three times 40,000 in any year then the excess must Audit Committee continued to work to a year.
An annual rolling Audit Committee be approved on an item by item basis by ensure the Group further embedded Agenda is reviewed at each meeting and the Audit Committee Chairman.
For internal control and risk management ensures that all matters within the Audit significant general consulting projects into the operations of the business.
Committees Terms of Reference during Regular reviews of key accounting more than one service delivery provider is the year are appropriately covered.
All judgements or financial results normally considered.
Categories of nonpublished financial information is reviewed continued throughout the year.
audit work provided by the Auditor are set and recommended for Board approval by out in note 8.
Tax advice provided by the the Committee.
Auditor substantially relates to compliance MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES During the year the Committee actively matters [C. 3.7].
Reviewing the effectiveness of the reviews the actions and judgements of Companys financial reporting, internal Within the Audit Committees Terms of management in relation to the Groups control policies and procedures for the Reference is a requirement for the financial statements, Business Review and identication, assessment and reporting Committee to assess the independence of preliminary and interim announcements of risk: the external auditor, ensuring lead partners before their submission to the Board with are rotated at appropriate intervals and to Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Committees recommendations for ensure that the provision of non-audit the internal audit function: approval or otherwise.
services does not impair the external Keeping the relationship with the The internal audit function is undertaken auditors independence or objectivity.
Auditors under review, including the by members of the Groups finance This assessment was undertaken by Terms of Engagement and fees, and departments who all have other distinct the Committee during the year.
Further detail is provided in the The Terms of Reference of the Audit Internal Control section.
The Finance Director Monitoring the integrity of the Companys Committee which are reviewed at least is also Head of Internal Audit.
This method financial statements: annually by the Committee are available of internal audit is reviewed annually by the to view on the Companys website Reviewing significant financial reporting Committee.
com in the Investors section issues and judgements.
satisfied with the arrangements which [C. 3.2 and C. 3.3].
The Committee considers ensure a comprehensive audit programme the appointment of the Auditor [C. 3.6] and is undertaken across the Groups extensive recommends to the Board the audit fees for worldwide operations annually [C. 3.5].
shareholder approval at the AGM.
The Committee reviews internal control The work undertaken by the Committee and risk management procedures including in discharging its internal control fraud risk management during the year.
responsibilities is described under the It reviews the annual internal audit plan Internal Control section above.
The results and significant findings of all internal audits are reported to the Committee in detailed narrative and tabular formats.
Managements ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Individual shareholders have an opportunity The work of the Remuneration Committee to put questions to the Chairman at the is described in the Remuneration Report AGM and individual shareholder enquiries on pages 37 to 42.
The Chairman and are dealt with throughout the year by the Chief Executive were invited to and did Company Secretarys department.
attend all meetings but neither was in At the AGM all proxy votes are counted attendance when their own remuneration and except in the event of a poll being and fees respectively were considered.
called the balance for and against the RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS resolution and the number of votes Communication with shareholders is given withheld is displayed for shareholders after high priority.
All members of the Board it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
receive copies of all analysts reports of Prior to the AGM the Company Secretary which the Company is made aware.
The reports to the Board on the results of the Board receives non-attributable comments proxy returns and on the comments and from analyst meetings and shareholder analysis undertaken by voting agencies.
meetings after both interim and final results A separate resolution is prepared on each [D. 1.1] and other updates from its substantially separate issue [D. 2.1].
The Chief Executive The Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration reports at each Board meeting upon his and Nomination Committees are available meetings with analysts, fund managers to answer questions at the AGM and all and shareholders [D. 1.2].
The Company Secretary has written on The Notice of AGM and related papers are behalf of the Board to the Companys major sent to shareholders at least 20 working shareholders offering meetings with the days before the meeting [D. 2.4].
non-executive directors and requesting shareholders to confirm they are content with current Board level contact with the Company and communication to nonexecutives.
The Chairman attends the preliminary and interim announcements in London with the Chief Executive and Finance Director and is available to meet fund managers and analysts on those days.
