The Committee shall discuss with the Membership Notice of meetings external auditors any proposed changes in The Committee shall be appointed by the Meetings of the Committee shall be accounting policies.
Board and shall comprise of a Chairman summoned by the Secretary of the The Committee Chairman will liaise and at least two other members.
Committee at the request of the directly with the external auditors in order Chairman of the Committee.
A majority of members of the Committee to ensure a full understanding of any shall be Independent Non-Executive Unless otherwise agreed, notice of each issues that arise from their work and will Directors.
meeting confirming the venue, time and report to the Committee accordingly.
date together with an agenda of items to The Board shall appoint the Committee Risk management be discussed, shall be forwarded to each Chairman.
In the absence of the member of the Committee no fewer than Internal controls Committee Chairman and or an five working days prior to the date of the appointed deputy, the remaining members 55 The Committee shall review the means by meeting.
As far as practical meetings shall present shall elect one of their number to which sound systems of internal control be held before or after meetings of the chair the meeting.
are maintained across the Group and shall Main Board.
review reports on the effectiveness of If a regular member is unable to act due those systems.
to absence, illness or any other cause, the Minutes of meetings Chairman of the Committee may appoint The Secretary shall minute the Internal audit another Director of the Company to proceedings and resolutions of all The Committee shall review at least serve as an alternate member having due Committee meetings, including the names annually the internal audit function regard to maintaining the required balance of those present and in attendance.
and will make appropriate of Executive and Independent Nonrecommendations to the Board.
Minutes of Committee meetings shall be Executive members.
circulated to all members of the Other risk management systems Care should be taken to minimise the risk Committee and to the Chairman of the The Committee shall consider the of any conflict of interest that might be Board and made available on request to adequacy of other systems which help to seen to give rise to an unacceptable other members of the Board.
manage the Groups exposures to damage influence.
Current membership: Brook or loss.
Land Chairman, Louise Charlton and Annual General Meeting Karen McPherson.
The Chairman of the Committee shall Nomination Committee - attend the Annual General Meeting Secretary Terms of Reference prepared to respond to any shareholder The Committee meets as required, but The Company Secretary shall act as the questions on the Committees activities.
not less than once a year, and comprises Secretary of the Committee and attend The terms and conditions of appointment three Independent Non-Executive all meetings.
of Non-Executive Directors should be Directors.
The Company Secretary attends Quorum made available for inspection by any all meetings.
Its responsibilities include person at the Companys registered office reviewing the Board structure, size and The quorum necessary for the transaction and at the AGM.
composition, nominating candidates to the of business is two.
A duly convened Board when vacancies arise and meeting of the Committee at which a Duties recommending Directors who are retiring quorum is present shall be competent to The Committee shall: by rotation to be put forward for reexercise all or any of the authorities, election.
An external search consultancy powers and discretions vested in or n regularly review the structure, size and was used in recruiting the Non-Executive exercisable by the Committee.
composition of the Board and make Director who joined the Board during the recommendations to the Board with Frequency of meetings year.
regard to any adjustments that are The Committee shall meet not less than deemed necessary: The Nomination Committees written once a year and at such other times as terms of reference are set out below: n prepare a description of the role and the Board or any member of the capabilities required for a particular Committee shall require.
com Corporate Governance continued n be responsible for identifying and n concerning any matters relating to the nominating for the approval of the continuation in office as a Director of Board candidates to fill Board any Director at any time: and vacancies as and when they arise: n concerning the appointment of any n satisfy itself with regard to succession Director to Executive or other office planning, that the processes and plans other than to the positions of are in place with regard to the Board Chairman and Chief Executive, the and senior appointments: recommendation for which would be considered at a meeting of: n assess and articulate the time needed to fulfil the role of Chairman, Senior n all the Non-Executive Directors Independent Director and Nonregarding the position of Chief 56 Executive Director, and undertake Executive: an annual performance evaluation n all the Directors regarding the to ensure that all members of the position of Chairman: and Board have devoted sufficient time n detailing items that should be to their duties: published in the Companys n ensure on appointment that a Annual Report relating to the candidate has sufficient time to activities of the Committee.
undertake the role and review his commitments: and Authority n ensure that the Secretary on behalf of The Committee is authorised to seek any the Board has formally written to any information it requires from any employee appointees, detailing the role and time of the Company in order to perform commitments and proposing an its duties.
induction plan produced in conjunction The Committee is authorised to obtain, at with the Chairman.
the Companys expense, outside legal or It shall also make recommendations to other professional advice on any matters the Board: within its terms of reference.
n with regard to the Chairman having assessed every three years whether the present incumbent shall continue in post, taking into account the needs of continuity versus freshness of approach: n as regards the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of his or her specified term of office: especially when they have concluded their second term: n for the continuation or not in service of any Director who has reached the age of 70: n concerning the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys articles of association: Report and Accounts 2008
