Corporate Governance Committee Combined Code In order to manage effectively the Groups keeping the Board appraised about the In the opinion of the Board the Chairman structure and organisation during a time implications in respect of changes to the and all the other Non-Executive Directors when expectations about the nature and Combined Code.
The work of the are independent from the Group.
The standards of Corporate Governance have Corporate Governance Committee is, Board is accountable to the Companys been changing significantly and rapidly, RPS therefore, reflected into the Audit, shareholders for good governance and the 45 has established a Corporate Governance Nomination and Remuneration statement set out below describes how Committee.
This comprises the Chairman, Committees as well as the structure, the principles identified in the Combined Chief Executive and Company Secretary: composition and operation of the Group Code 2006 already referred to above are other Directors are consulted as Board, including the production of the applied by the Company.
The Committee reviews issues policies described in the Corporate Governance Committee has reviewed as they arise and is also responsible for Responsibility Report pages 27 to 30.
RPS performance against the recommendations in the Code.
In summary the position is as follows: Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Board should meet regularly to discharge its duties.
1.1 Compliant 32 33 schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
The annual report should include a statement of how the Board operates, including a high level statement of which types of decisions are to be taken by the Board and which are delegated to management.
The Annual Report should identify the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior A.
1.2 Compliant 44 Director and Chairman and Independent Non-Executive members of Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
It should also set out the number of meetings held and individual attendance.
The Chairman should hold meetings with Non-Executive Directors without A.
Led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Directors should meet without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of A.
1.4 Compliant 33 the Company or a proposed action these concerns should be recorded in the Board minutes.
On resignation these concerns should be provided in a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
The Company should arrange appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal A.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive should be split.
2.1 Compliant 33 responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive should be clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman on appointment should be independent.
2.2 Compliant 32 The Board should identify in the annual report each Non-Executive Director it A.
3.1 Compliant 34-44 considers to be independent.
At least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive A.
3.2 NonDirectors determined by the board to be independent.
Compliant A further Non-Executive Director was appointed during 2008.
The Chairman and the Nomination Committee believe that at present further enlargement of the Board would not assist efficient decision making and are satisfied that the current Non-Executive Directors and Chairman exercise suffcient oversight and control over the Board and the business as a whole.
In consequence there are no plans to appoint further Non-Executive Directors.
com Corporate Governance continued Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Board should appoint one of the Independent Non-Executive Directors to be A.
3.3 Compliant 33 & 40 the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
There should be a Nomination Committee.
A majority of the members should be A.
The Chairman or independent non-executive director should chair the committee unless it is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairmanship.
The Nomination Committee should make available its terms of reference.
The Nomination Committee should evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and A.
4.2 Compliant 55-56 46 experience on the Board and evaluate the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
On appointment of a Chairman, the Nomination Committee should prepare a job A.
A Chairmans other significant commitments should be disclosed to the Board before appointment and included in the Annual Report.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors should be made A.
4.4 Compliant 55 available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The annual report should describe the work of the Nomination Committee, including A.
4.6 Compliant 55-56 processes it has used in relation to Board appointments.
New Directors should receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
5.1 Compliant 33 Shareholders should be offered the opportunity to meet the new Non-Executive.
All Directors should have access to independent professional advice.
5.2 Compliant 33 Committees should be provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
All Directors should have access to the advice and services of the Company A.
5.3 Compliant 33 Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The Board should state in the annual report how it evaluates performance of the Board, A.
6.1 Compliant 33 its committees and its individual Directors has been conducted.
The Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Director should be responsible for performance evaluation of the Chairman.
All Directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General A.
7.1 Compliant Notice Meeting after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more of than three years.
The names of Directors submitted for election or re-election should Meeting be accompanied by sufficient biographical details and any other relevant information.
The Non-Executive Directors should be appointed for specified terms subject to A.
Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive should be subject to particularly rigorous review, and take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Performance-related elements of remuneration should form a significant B.
1.1 Compliant 48 proportion of the total remuneration package of the Executive Directors.
Share options should not be offered at a discount.
1.2 Compliant 51 Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors should reflect the time commitment and B.
1.3 Compliant 52 responsibilities of the role and should not include share options.
The Remuneration Committee should consider what compensation commitments B.
1.5 Compliant 52 the Directors terms of appointment would entail in the event of early termination.
Notice or contract periods of Executive Directors should be one year or less.
1.6 Compliant 52 A Remuneration Committee should be established with at least three Independent B.
Compliant The Remuneration Committee should make available its terms of reference.
48-49 For the year under review the Board has been satisfied that the two members of the Committee had sufficient expertise to ensure that the affairs of the Committee were conducted in an efficient and professional manner.
Since the year end, however, a third independent Non-Executive Director has joined the Committee.
Report and Accounts 2008 Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Remuneration Committee should set remuneration for all executives.
2.2 Compliant 48-53 The Remuneration Committee should recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Board should determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
2.3 Compliant 52 Shareholders should be invited specifically to approve all new long-term incentive B.
2.4 Compliant 50 schemes and significant changes to existing schemes.
The Directors should explain in the annual report their responsibility for preparing C. 1.1 Compliant 61-63 accounts and a statement, by the auditor about their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors should report that the business is a going concern.
C. 1.2 Compliant 61 47 The Board should conduct at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups C. 2.1 Compliant 48 & 55 system of internal controls and should report to shareholders that they have done so.
The Board should establish an Audit Committee with at least three members C. 3.1 Non-Compliant who should all be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
At least one member of the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The role and responsibility of the Audit Committee should be set out in written terms C. 3.2 3.3 Compliant 54-55 of reference.
This should be disclosed in the annual report.
The Audit Committee should review arrangements by which staff of the Company C. 3.4 Compliant 54 may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee should consider annually whether there is a need for an C. 3.5 Compliant 55 internal audit function and make a recommendation to the Board.
The Audit Committee should have primary responsibility for making a recommendation C. 3.6 Compliant 54 on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
If the Board does not accept the Audit Committees recommendation it should C3.6 Compliant n a include in its annual report a statement explaining why the Board take a different position.
The annual report should explain to shareholders how independence is C. 3.7 Compliant 54 safeguarded if the auditor provides non audit services.
The Chairman should ensure that the views of the shareholders are disclosed to the D. 1.1 Compliant 30 Board as a whole.
The Chairman is available to discuss governance and strategy with the shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders in order to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of the shareholders.
The Board should state in their annual report the steps they have taken to ensure Board D. 1.2 Compliant 30 members develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about their Company.
The Company should propose a separate resolution at the AGM on each substantially D. 2.1 Compliant Notice separate issue and should in particular propose a resolution at the AGM relating of to the report and accounts.
Meeting The Company should count all proxy votes and indicate the level of proxies D. 2.2 Compliant lodged on each resolution, and the balance for and against the resolution and the number of abstentions.
The Company should ensure that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees should attend the D. 2.3 Compliant 30 AGM in order to be available to answer questions.
The Company should arrange for the Notice of AGM and related papers to be sent to D. 2.4 Compliant shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Board is satisfied that the two current members of the Audit Committee have sufficient expertise to ensure that the affairs of that Committee are conducted in a professional and effective manner.
