Remuneration Report Corporate Governance continued n the person raising the concern need n reviews annually the Committees Audit Committee not disclose their identity.
However, it policies, practices and performance: The Audit Committee has written terms would be of greater benefit in and of reference set out below.
These are also investigating the situation if the person available on the Group website.
It reviews n ensures that funds are available to the raising the concern identifies himself the draft financial statements prior to Committee for external advice when or herself.
If their identity is disclosed submission to the Board and monitors needed, which shall be obtained via an their identity will not be passed on by and makes recommendations to the Executive Director.
the person receiving the complaint Board regarding the Groups accounting without the individuals consent.
Committee authority policies and considers significant matters relating to internal control procedures.
The Committee shall have the authority to Audit Committee - consider any matters relating to the The Audit Committee keeps the scope Terms of Reference 54 financial affairs of the Group.
and cost effectiveness of the external Committee composition, capabilities audit under review.
In order to ensure the The Committee shall have the authority and meetings independence of its auditors is not to request relevant information from any prejudiced in any way, the Board has The Committee shall comprise two employee and employees shall be maintained a policy that the auditors, Independent Non-Executive Directors expected to respond accordingly.
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP, will not, other with a quorum of two, appointed by the The Committee may take external than in exceptional circumstances, be used Board, all of whom possess an adequate professional advice with respect to its to undertake any assignment for the understanding of the financial responsibilities and duties.
Group or any part of the Group not management and reporting requirements The Committee shall have no executive related to the audit, tax issues and the of publicly quoted companies.
responsibilities with respect to review of Interim Results.
The Board will appoint a suitably qualified implementation of its recommendations.
If the Executives believe exceptional Director other than the Chairman to chair circumstances do exist, the appointment the Committee.
The Company Secretary is Committee responsibilities and duties of the auditors for some other assignment secretary to the Committee.
Financial matters needs to be specifically approved in The Committee shall meet at least twice advance by the Audit Committee.
The The Committee shall review accounting per annum and may invite to attend: the Audit Committee keeps non-audit policies and practices used by the Group, Chief Executive and the Finance Director, services under review.
This policy applies as well as information to be published to representatives of the external auditors to all the territories in which the Group the London Stock Exchange prior to its and anyone else who may assist the operates.
The split between audit and submission to the Board.
Committee from time to time.
non-audit fees for the year under review The Committee shall ensure that the Current membership: John Bennett appears on page 74. information presented by the Group Chairman and Roger Devlin.
The The Company has in place formal supports a balanced, clear and Company Secretary attends all meetings.
whistleblowing procedures which allow understandable view of its financial staff of the Company to, in confidence, position and prospects.
Relationship between the Committee and raise concerns about possible the Board External audit improprieties in matters of financial The RPS Group Plc Board: The Committee shall make reporting and other issues.
These recommendations to the Board n reviews and agrees terms of reference procedures are reviewed by the Audit with respect to the appointment put forward by the Audit Committee: Committee and are as follows: of external auditors and will take n considers changes to the terms of n any employee wishing to raise a steps necessary to satisfy itself about the reference when recommended by concern regarding internal controls, continuing independence of relevant firms.
the Committee: accounting or audit matters may do The Committee shall review the level of so with the Senior Non-Executive n receives prompt summary reports external audit fees.
Director, Roger Devlin, or the after each meeting of the Committee: Company Secretary, Nicholas Rowe: The Committee shall review the scope of, n is advised of matters for its attention approach to and findings from external n any concerns raised will be treated in at other times as deemed necessary audit work.
confidence, and will be investigated by the Committee: and any action proposed reported to n will refer matters to the Committee the Audit Committee: and for its attention as necessary: Report and Accounts 2008
