Corporate Governance Committee Combined Code In order to manage effectively the Groups keeping the Board appraised about the In the opinion of the Board the Chairman structure and organisation during a time implications in respect of changes to the and all the other Non-Executive Directors when expectations about the nature and Combined Code.
The work of the are independent from the Group.
The standards of Corporate Governance have Corporate Governance Committee is, Board is accountable to the Companys been changing significantly and rapidly, RPS therefore, reflected into the Audit, shareholders for good governance and the 45 has established a Corporate Governance Nomination and Remuneration statement set out below describes how Committee.
This comprises the Chairman, Committees as well as the structure, the principles identified in the Combined Chief Executive and Company Secretary: composition and operation of the Group Code 2006 already referred to above are other Directors are consulted as Board, including the production of the applied by the Company.
The Committee reviews issues policies described in the Corporate Governance Committee has reviewed as they arise and is also responsible for Responsibility Report pages 27 to 30.
RPS performance against the recommendations in the Code.
In summary the position is as follows: Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Board should meet regularly to discharge its duties.
1.1 Compliant 32 33 schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
The annual report should include a statement of how the Board operates, including a high level statement of which types of decisions are to be taken by the Board and which are delegated to management.
The Annual Report should identify the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior A.
1.2 Compliant 44 Director and Chairman and Independent Non-Executive members of Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
It should also set out the number of meetings held and individual attendance.
The Chairman should hold meetings with Non-Executive Directors without A.
Led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Directors should meet without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of A.
1.4 Compliant 33 the Company or a proposed action these concerns should be recorded in the Board minutes.
On resignation these concerns should be provided in a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
The Company should arrange appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal A.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive should be split.
2.1 Compliant 33 responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive should be clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman on appointment should be independent.
2.2 Compliant 32 The Board should identify in the annual report each Non-Executive Director it A.
3.1 Compliant 34-44 considers to be independent.
At least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive A.
3.2 NonDirectors determined by the board to be independent.
Compliant A further Non-Executive Director was appointed during 2008.
The Chairman and the Nomination Committee believe that at present further enlargement of the Board would not assist efficient decision making and are satisfied that the current Non-Executive Directors and Chairman exercise suffcient oversight and control over the Board and the business as a whole.
In consequence there are no plans to appoint further Non-Executive Directors.
