Corporate governance The directors report on Board of directors: composition 1. corporate governance 3. and independence The directors are committed to maintaining high standards The board currently consists of the Chairman Mr Kahn : eight of corporate governance, which they see as fundamental to independent non-executive directors including Lord Fellowes, discharging their stewardship responsibilities.
The board strives the Senior Independent Director : five non-executive directors to provide the right leadership, strategic oversight and control who are not considered to be independent: and two executive environment to produce and sustain the delivery of value to all of directors Mr Mackay, the Chief Executive, and Mr Wyman, the the companys shareholders.
The board applies integrity, principles Chief Financial Officer.
Biographical information concerning of good governance and accountability throughout its activities and each of the directors is set out on pages 42 and 43. each director brings independence of character and judgment to the The size and certain aspects of the composition of the board role.
All of the members of the board are individually and collectively and of the audit, nomination and corporate accountability and aware of their responsibilities to the companys stakeholders.
risk assurance committees are determined primarily by the terms The principal governance rules applying to UK companies of our relationship agreement with Altria, which was originally listed on the London Stock Exchange are currently contained in approved by shareholders in 2002 as part of the Miller transaction, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the and was amended, with shareholders approval, in 2005 as part Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code.
of the Bavaria transaction, and by the terms of our relationship agreement with BevCo a holding company of the Santo Domingo This report describes the boards approach to corporate Group, which was approved by shareholders in 2005 as part governance and explains how it applies the Combined Code.
The agreement with Altria limits the size of the board to a Application of the maximum of 15 directors, of whom no more than two are to be 2.
Combined Code executive directors, up to three are to be non-executive directors nominated by Altria, up to two are to be non-executive directors The board applied the principles and provisions of the Combined nominated by BevCo, and up to eight are to be non-executive Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2008, except in the directors appointed by the board.
The agreement with BevCo following respects with items a to d being dealt with more allows BevCo to nominate up to two non-executive directors fully in sections 3 and 5 of this report : for appointment to the board.
a at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, were not The board is grateful to Altria for its indulgence in permitting for independent for the purposes of the Combined Code: the time being the maximum number of directors allowed under b the audit committee did not consist solely of independent the relationship agreement to be exceeded, in order to assist directors, as the committee included Ms fide Lisi, an Altria the company to meet the requirements of the Combined Code.
Group, Inc. Altria nominee, until her retirement on 30 April Altria and BevCo have each exercised their right under their 2007, and then Mr Devitre, Altrias nominated replacement respective agreements to nominate one director for appointment for Ms fide Lisi, neither of whom is independent for the to the nomination committee.
BevCo has the right to nominate purposes of the Combined Code: one director for appointment to the corporate accountability and c the nomination committee did not comprise a majority risk assurance committee CARAC although it has not exercised of independent non-executive directors throughout the this right, and Altria has the right to nominate one director for period following the appointment to the nomination committee, appointment to the audit committee which it has exercised.
under the terms of the respective relationship agreements Ms fide Lisi, who was nominated for appointment to the board with Altria and BevCo Ltd BevCo of Mr Bible and and the audit committee by Altria, stepped down from the Mr Santo Domingo Dvila to the nomination committee.
board on 30 April 2007, following her retirement from Altria.
The appointments took effect on 14 November 2007: Altria nominated Mr Dinyar Devitre to replace Ms fide Lisi.
d the chairman of the nomination committee, although Mr Devitre was, until 31 March 2008, Senior Vice President considered by the board to be independent in character and Chief Financial Officer of Altria and is currently a member and judgement, was not independent for the purposes of of the board of Altria.
He joined the board of SABMiller as a the Combined Code: and non-executive director with effect from 16 May 2007. e one director was not able to attend the 2007 annual general The board considers eight directors Ms Doherty, Lord Fellowes, meeting because of a longstanding prior commitment.
Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni, Mr Morland, Mr Pieterse, Ms Ramos and Mr Ramaphosa to be independent for the purposes of the The board has taken a number of steps to redress the balance Combined Code.
The board considers six non-executive directors of independent directors on the board and nomination committee: including the Chairman not to be independent for the purposes a Ms Maria Ramos and Mr Rob Pieterse were appointed of the Combined Code: Mr Bible and Mr Devitre, as they are to the board on 15 May 2008.
Both are independent nominees of Altria, the companys largest shareholder: Mr Santo non-executive directors: and Domingo Dvila and Mr Prez Dvila, as they are nominees of the Santo Domingo Group, the companys second largest shareholder: b Mr Ramaphosa, an independent non-executive director, was Lord Renwick of Clifton, because of his position with JPMorgan appointed to the nomination committee on 14 November 2007.
Cazenove: and the Chairman, Mr Kahn, who is a former chief Lord Renwick of Clifton retires from the board on 31 July 2008. executive of the company and has served continuously on the He stepped down as a member and as chairman of the board, or on the board of the companys predecessor, since 1981 nomination committee on 31 March 2008. although he has been a director of the company only since 1999 and, as Chairman, is deemed not to be independent under the With effect from 15 May 2008, over half the board, excluding the Combined Code.
Chairman, were independent for the purposes of the Combined Code and, with effect from 1 April 2008, a majority of the directors on the nomination committee were independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
34 Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information For ease of reference, directors independence status for The board considers that the composition of the audit Combined Code purposes is indicated in the table below.
committee remains appropriate, given Altrias interest as the companys largest shareholder, and is satisfied that, having The board continues to believe that its overall composition regard to the terms of the relationship agreement between remains appropriate, having regard in particular to the the company and Altria, and to the experience and background independence of character and integrity of all of its directors, in financial matters of Mr Devitre, the independence and and the experience and skills which they bring to their duties.
effectiveness of the audit committee in discharging its functions The board is confident that the appointment of both Ms Ramos in terms of the Combined Code continue to be considerably and Mr Pieterse, two distinguished and internationally acclaimed enhanced and not compromised.
individuals, will make a significant contribution to its deliberations.
It is now nine years since the company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
SABMiller has been fortunate to retain the services of How the board operates several distinguished non-executive directors, the Chairman, Lord 4.
Fellowes, Mr Morland, Mr Ramaphosa and Lord Renwick, for the 4.1 Board meetings and attendance entire nine-year period.
They have provided considerable stability During the year there were six scheduled board meetings.
to the board since the listing in 1999 and the board has benefited Two additional board meetings were held to consider particular greatly from the presence of individuals who have over time gained projects.
Individual directors attendance at board and committee valuable insight into the group, its markets and the industry.
The meetings and at the annual general meeting is set out in the table provisions of the Combined Code require the board to consider, below.
The directors nominated by Altria waived their fees during where a director has served for a period of more than nine years, the period under review.
whether that director continues to be independent.
The board has conducted a rigorous review of the performance of the Chairman, In the few instances where a director has not been able to attend Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa and considers a board or committee meeting, any comments which he or she that each of these directors brings invaluable integrity, wisdom and has had arising out of the papers to be considered at that meeting experience to the board and that they continue to contribute to the have been relayed in advance to the relevant chairman.
direct, robust and constructive debate held within the board and 4.2 Operation of the board committee deliberations.
Therefore, the board is entirely satisfied The board sets the strategic objectives of the group, determines as to the continued independence of each of these directors.
investment policies, agrees on performance criteria and delegates Under the Combined Code, directors who have served for more to management the detailed planning and implementation of than nine years are required to stand for annual re-election and the those objectives and policies in accordance with appropriate board has determined that they should do so.
The board does not risk parameters.
The board monitors compliance with policies consider it to be in the interests of the company or shareholders and achievement against objectives by holding management to require all four of the directors who have served for nine years accountable for its activities through monthly and quarterly to retire at the same time as noted, Lord Renwick will be retiring performance reporting and budget updates.
In addition, the in July 2008 and strongly favours ensuring continuity and stability board receives regular presentations, on a rotational basis, from through orderly succession.
the divisional managing directors as well as from directors of key While recognising the benefits of the experience and stability group functions marketing, corporate affairs, human resources brought by its long-standing directors, the board remains and legal enabling it to explore specific issues and developments committed to the progressive renewal of board membership in greater detail.
and has therefore acted to bring about the appointment of Ms Ramos and Mr Pieterse.
The board will continue to act in the best interests of the company and shareholders as it considers further appointments and the future tenure of the directors who have served for more than nine years.
Directors attendance 1 April 2007 to 31 March 2008 and committee memberships Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CARAC Independent Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible AGM J M Kahn 88 3322 E A G Mackay 88 22 M I Wyman 78 12 G C Bible 78 11 D Devitre 7733 M E Doherty 5834 Lord Fellowes 8844553322 P J Manser 7844453322 J A Manzoni 78 55 22 M Q Morland 88445533 C A Prez Dvila 88 M C Ramaphosa 68 0112 Lord Renwick 78 33 A Santo Domingo Dvila 88 11 considered to be independent for Combined Code purposes Corporategovernance 35 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate governance continued Board and committee meetings are held in an atmosphere of 4.6 Outside appointments intellectual honesty of purpose, integrity and mutual respect, Non-executive directors may serve on a number of outside requiring reporting of the highest standard by management boards provided that they continue to demonstrate the requisite and direct, robust and constructive debate among board and commitment to discharge effectively their duties to SABMiller plc.
The nomination committee keeps the extent of directors other interests under review to ensure that the effectiveness of the board 4.3 Matters reserved for the board is not compromised.
The board is satisfied that the Chairman and There is a schedule of matters which are dealt with exclusively each of the non-executive directors commit sufficient time to the by the board.
These include approval of financial statements: fulfilment of their duties as Chairman and directors of the the groups business strategy: the annual capital expenditure plan: company, respectively.
major capital projects: major changes to the groups management and control structure: material investments or disposals: risk The board believes, in principle, in the benefit of executive management strategy: social and environmental policy: and directors and members of the executive committee accepting treasury policies.
non-executive directorships of other companies in order to widen their experience and knowledge for the benefit of the company.
The board governs through clearly mandated board committees, Accordingly, executive directors and members of the executive accompanied by monitoring and reporting systems.
Each standing committee are permitted to accept external non-executive board board committee has specific written terms of reference issued appointments, subject to the agreement of the board, and are by the board and adopted in committee.
The terms of reference allowed to retain any fees received from such appointments.
of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are available on the companys website or, on request, from the Mr Mackay is a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser Company Secretary.
All committee chairmen report orally on Group plc and is the Senior Independent Director and a member the proceedings of their committees at the next meeting of the of the remuneration committee of that company.
Fees earned board, and the minutes of the meetings of all board committees by Mr Mackay from this appointment are set out in the Directors are included in the papers distributed to board members in Remuneration Report on page 56.
Later in 2008 Mr Mackay will advance of the next board meeting.
join the board of Philip Morris International Inc.
The board is satisfied that these duties will not impinge on Mr Mackays commitment 4.4 The roles of executive and non-executive directors and ability to discharge fully his duties to the company.
The executive directors are responsible for proposing strategy and for making and implementing operational decisions.
Non-executive 4.7 Chairman, Chief Executive and directors complement the skills and experience of the executive Senior Independent Director directors, bring an independent judgement and contribute to the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate formulation of strategy, policy and decision making through their with responsibilities divided between them.
This separation knowledge and experience of other businesses and sectors.
of responsibilities is formalised in their respective letters of appointment, approved by the board.
There were no significant 4.5 Information and training changes to the Chairmans external commitments during the year.
The board and its committees are supplied with full and timely information, including detailed financial information, to enable The Chairman is available to consult with shareholders throughout directors to discharge their responsibilities.
All directors have the year and, in the month prior to the annual general meeting, he access to the advice of the Company Secretary.
Independent also invites major shareholders to meet with him to deal with any professional advice is also available to directors in appropriate issues.
The board is kept informed of the views of shareholders circumstances, at the companys expense, and the committees through regular updates from the Chairman, the Company have been provided with sufficient resources to undertake their Secretary and the executive directors, as well as through the duties.
None of the directors has sought independent external inclusion in the board papers of relevant reports and commentaries advice through the company.
The Company Secretary is of, and exchanges with, shareholders and investor bodies.
responsible for advising the board, through the Chairman, The Senior Independent Director is Lord Fellowes.
Lord Fellowes on matters of corporate governance.
is chairman of CARAC, and also serves on the audit, remuneration Following the appointment of new directors to the board, tailored and nomination committees.
He is therefore well placed to induction programmes are arranged which involve industry-specific influence the governance of the company and to meet his training and include visits to the groups businesses and meetings responsibilities as Senior Independent Director.
Lord Fellowes with senior management, as appropriate.
New directors are briefed serves as an additional contact point for shareholders should on internal controls at business unit level and are advised of the they feel that their concerns are not being addressed through legal and other duties they have as directors of a listed company the normal channels.
Lord Fellowes is also available to fellow as well as on relevant company policies and governance-related non-executive directors, either individually or collectively, to discuss matters.
The company arranges for major shareholders to have any matters of concern in a forum that does not include executive the opportunity to meet new appointees.
The company is also directors or the management of the company.
In the year under committed to the continuing development of directors in order review, the Chairman hosted a meeting of the non-executive that they may build on their expertise and develop an ever more directors without the executive directors present.
Lord Fellowes detailed understanding of the business and the markets in which has, in addition, held a meeting of non-executive directors without group companies operate.
Members of board committees are the presence of the Chairman at which, among other things, the encouraged to attend internal and external briefings and courses performance of the Chairman was discussed.
on aspects of their respective committee specialities and regular 4.8 Board, committee and director performance evaluation updates on relevant legal, regulatory, corporate governance and A formal evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the technical developments are presented to committee members board and of the audit, remuneration, nomination and corporate and, as appropriate, to the board.
accountability and risk assurance committees is carried out each year, led by the Chairman, with input from the Senior Independent Director and in consultation with other directors and the Company Secretary.
The performance of the Chief Executive is reviewed by the remuneration committee and this review is shared with and 36 Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information considered by the board.
The performance of the Chief Financial 4.9 Retirement of directors Officer is reviewed by the Chief Executive and the remuneration New directors are subject to election at the first annual general committee, and reported to the board by the remuneration meeting following their appointment, and directors are subject committee.
Each non-executive directors performance is evaluated to retirement and re-election by shareholders every three years.
by the Chairman, in consultation with the Senior Independent The reappointment of non-executive directors is not automatic.
Director, who in turn consults with the executive directors and the The board has determined that non-executive directors who have Company Secretary.
The Chairmans performance is evaluated served for nine years will be asked to stand for re-election annually, against the same criteria by the Senior Independent Director, the provided that the board remains satisfied both with the directors non-executive directors and the Company Secretary, taking into performance and that nine years continuous service does not account the views of the executive directors.
compromise the directors continuing independence.
In considering the contribution of individual directors for the year 4.10 The Company Secretary under review, performance was assessed against the companys The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the board and selected criteria of strategy, expertise in their field, governance its committees and he attended all meetings during the year factors, commitment, profile, knowledge of the industry and team under review.
contribution, culminating in an overall contribution rating.
The importance of the different roles played by individual directors in bringing a balanced overall view to the board was recognised.
The boards committees and the For the year under review, the Chairman has assessed that all 5. executive committee directors continue to make an effective contribution to the board.
5.1 The executive committee In reviewing the performance of the board and its committees, The board delegates responsibility for determining and the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director were aligned implementing the groups strategy and for managing the group in their conclusion that measured against the principal duties to the Chief Executive, Mr Graham Mackay, who is supported expected of it, the board including by extension its standing by the executive committee excom, which he chairs.
Excom and ad hoc sub-committees continued to operate effectively members are appointed by Mr Mackay.
The other members of and to meet in full its obligations to support management, to excom are the Chief Financial Officer, Mr Wyman: the divisional monitor performance across a wide area, and to maintain its managing directors responsible for managing the groups regional strategic oversight.
hubs Latin America, Europe, Africa and Asia : the Managing Director of SAB Ltd: the President and Chief Executive Officer In a meeting of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, of Miller Brewing Company: the directors of key group functions the committee chairmen and the Company Secretary, the results marketing, corporate affairs, and human resources : and the of the performance and effectiveness evaluations conducted in General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Excoms respect of the board, each of the directors, the Chairman, the purpose is to support the Chief Executive in carrying out the Senior Independent Director and each of the boards four standing duties delegated to him by the board and, in that context, committees were reviewed.
Regarding the board committees, excom co-ordinates brand and operational execution, delivers each of the committee chairmen expressed their views regarding strategic plans, budgets and financial reports for the boards the operation of his committee against its terms of reference and consideration and, through the Chief Executive, reports on the performance and effectiveness of that committee.
These these matters to the board.
views were discussed in an open and constructive manner with recommendations arising from the discussions being brought Excom also ensures that effective internal controls are in place forward to the board and the respective committees.
and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process in operation throughout the group.
The results of the performance and effectiveness evaluation process were also reviewed by the Chairman, the Senior 5.2 The disclosure committee Independent Director, the Chief Executive and the Company The disclosure committee consists of the Chairman, the Secretary, all of whom concluded that the board and its Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, a designated noncommittees were operating effectively.
executive director Lord Fellowes, and the Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary.
The function of the disclosure At the forthcoming annual general meeting, Ms Ramos and committee, in accordance with the groups inside information Mr Pieterse, having been initially appointed by the board of policy, is to assure compliance with the Disclosure and directors will, pursuant to the companys articles of association, Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules, and to ensure that the stand for election.
Three directors, Mr Mackay, Mr Manzoni and routes of communication between excom members, the disclosure Mr Ramaphosa are required to seek re-election in accordance committee, the in-house legal team, the company secretarial office with the companys articles of association, having served for three and investor relations are clear and provide for rapid escalation to years since their last election.
As previously mentioned, the the disclosure committee and key advisers of any decision Chairman, Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa will regarding potential inside information, so that the company is able by the time of the AGM each have served continuously on the to comply fully with its continuing obligations under the Disclosure board for nine years and, under the Combined Code, are obliged and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules.
to offer themselves for re-election annually.
5.3 The audit committee The Chairman confirms that each of the directors offering During the year under review, the audit committee was chaired themselves for re-election continues to perform effectively and by Mr Manser, who has been chairman of the committee since to demonstrate commitment to his role.
In addition, the Chairman May 2002.
Mr Manser qualified as a chartered accountant in 1964 confirms that in relation to each of the directors who will have and was made a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants served for nine years, the board is satisfied with his performance in 1976.
Further biographical information concerning Mr Manser and has determined that nine years service does not compromise is set out on page 43. his independence.
Lord Fellowes, as senior independent director, confirms that the Chairman continues to perform effectively and to Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland, and Ms Doherty served on the demonstrate commitment to his role.
Biographical details of committee throughout the year.
Ms fide Lisi served until her directors standing for election and re-election are included on retirement on 30 April 2007 and was replaced by Mr Devitre who pages 42 and 43 of this report.
Corporategovernance 37 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate governance continued attended his first meeting of the committee on 4 September 2007. the responses and conducted one-to-one discussions with Mr Morland has been a member of the committee from its first members of the committee where he felt it was necessary.
Lord Fellowes was appointed to the The results of the self-assessment and any action plans arising committee on 1 June 2001 and Ms Doherty was appointed on were then reported to the board.
The Chairman has recent and relevant financial 5.4 The nomination committee experience, as does Ms Doherty, who is Chief Financial Officer During the year the nomination committee was chaired by Lord of Brambles Limited and was previously Group International Renwick.
Lord Renwick retired as chairman and as a member of Finance Director of Tesco PLC, and Mr Devitre, having until the nomination committee with effect from 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2008 held the position of Chief Financial Officer of Altria.
was replaced as chairman by Mr Kahn.
Both Lord Renwick and The committee met four times during the year.
The external Mr Kahn were members of the committee throughout the year, as auditors, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and were Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland and Mr Manser.
During the year the Chief Internal Auditor attended each meeting by invitation.
Altria and BevCo exercised their rights under their relationship Other members of the management team attended as required.
agreements to nominate Mr Bible and Mr Santo Domingo Davila, respectively, as members of the nomination committee with effect Under its terms of reference, the committees key duties include: from 14 November 2007.
Mr Ramaphosa was appointed to the to review, and challenge where necessary, the annual financial committee at the same time.
statements and interim and preliminary announcements before The committee is empowered to consider the composition of the their submission to the board for approval: board and its committees.
It is asked to consider the retirement, to examine and review the internal control environment appointment and replacement of directors, and is required to and risk management systems within the group and review make appropriate recommendations to the board.
the groups statement on internal control systems prior to The nomination committee has continued to evaluate the balance endorsement by the board and to review the independence, of skills, knowledge and experience of the board.
In order to objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit process: further strengthen the independence and balance of the board, to make recommendations to the board regarding the and as part of the continuing process of progressive renewal of appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external the board, the committee successfully recruited Ms Ramos and auditors and to approve and recommend to the board Mr Pieterse to the board.
Appropriate succession plans for the the remuneration and terms of engagement of the non-executive directors approaching nine years service, for the external auditors: executive directors and for senior management were also kept under review.
to review annually the effectiveness of the internal audit function throughout the group, with particular focus on the Where non-executive vacancies arise, the committee may use charter, annual work plans, activities, staffing, organisational the services of external consultants in order to identify suitable and reporting structure and status of the function: and candidates for the board to consider.
Candidates are shortlisted for consideration by the nomination committee on the basis of to review the effectiveness of the system for monitoring their relevant corporate or professional skills and experience.
compliance with laws and regulations including the In accordance with the terms of the relationship agreement with groups bi-annual letters of representation and the results Altria, the only executive directors appointed to the board are of managements investigation and follow-up including the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
disciplinary action of any instances of non-compliance.
5.5 The remuneration committee The audit committee reports its activities and makes The committee consists entirely of independent directors: recommendations to the board.
During the year, the audit Mr Morland Chairman, Lord Fellowes, Mr Manzoni and Mr Manser.
committee discharged its responsibilities as they are defined in the committees terms of reference, and has been engaged in The committee is empowered by the board to set short-term, ensuring that appropriate standards of governance, reporting and medium-term and long-term remuneration for the executive compliance are being met.
The committee has advised the board directors.
More generally, the committee is responsible for the on issues relating to the application of accounting standards as assessment and approval of a broad remuneration strategy for they relate to published financial information.
The committee has the group and for the operation of the companys share-based also monitored the further progress which has been made during incentive plans.
This includes determination of short-term and the year in reviewing and upgrading internal controls in the major long-term incentives for executives across the group.
business entities across the group, positioning the group to During the year the remuneration committee has implemented achieve substantive compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley standards its strategy of ensuring that employees and executives are in due course although the company is not an SEC registrant rewarded for their contribution to the groups operating and and is not required to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley standards.
financial performance at levels which take account of industry, The Chief Internal Auditor has direct access to the audit market and country benchmarks.
To ensure that the executives committee, primarily through its chairman.
The audit committee goals are aligned to those of the company, share incentives are has access to subsidiary company internal audit leadership.
considered to be critical elements of executive incentive pay.
The reports of the divisional audit committees are also available During the year, the committee engaged the services of to the audit committee.
consultants, Kepler Associates and Mercer Human Resource Consulting Mercer.
At levels below the companys executive During the year, the committee met with the external auditors and committee, the companys management consults, among others, with the Chief Internal Auditor without management being present.
Hay Consulting, Ernst & Young and Towers Perrin, on a project In addition to the review of its performance, terms of reference basis.
More details of the companys remuneration policy can be and effectiveness led by the Chairman of the board, the committee found in the directors remuneration report on pages 49 to 59. critically reviewed its own performance during the year by means of a questionnaire which each member of the committee completed independently.
The committee chairman then reviewed 38 Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 5.6 The corporate accountability and Relations with shareholders risk assurance committee CARAC 7.
Lord Fellowes chaired the committee throughout the year.
During the year the company has continued to promote dialogue Mr Kahn, Mr Mackay, Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni, Mr Ramaphosa with its major institutional shareholders.
All shareholders were and Mr Wyman served as members.
Additionally, the Director again encouraged to attend the annual general meeting, which of Corporate Affairs, Ms Clark, met regularly with the chairman provides shareholders with the opportunity to ask questions of CARAC to discuss implementation and planning issues, and of the board and chairmen of all the board committees.
All attended all meetings of the committee.
resolutions were put to a poll at the annual general meeting in The objective of CARAC is to assist the board in the discharge of 2007.
Voting at the meeting was conducted electronically, with its responsibilities in relation to corporate accountability, including the results being published on the Regulatory News Service and sustainable development, corporate social responsibility, corporate on the companys website.
social investment and ethical commercial behaviour.
More details Alongside the facilities offered by the Company Secretarys of the committees activities can be found in the sustainable department, the company maintains a dedicated investor relations development review section of this report and in the companys function which reports to the Director of Corporate Affairs.
The separate Sustainable Development Report which is available investor relations team builds and maintains long-term relationships on the companys website and, upon request, in hard copy.
with institutional investors and analysts and, in partnership with our During the year, the CARAC focused on company-specific and corporate and divisional management teams and within the scope industry issues which are critical to protecting the companys of regulatory constraints, gives presentations on regional business licence to operate.
outlooks and strives to ensure that these are understood across the global equity markets in subsequent one-to-one meetings with investors.
Occasional business site visits are also arranged.
Relationship with auditors Dialogue on socially responsible investment is handled by 6. the Head of Sustainable Development in the corporate affairs department, who undertakes focused briefings with interested  were appointed as auditors of the investors and stakeholders.
company on 8 February 1999, subsequently becoming  LLP PwC in 2003.
In addition to scheduled management-led programmes in which executives interact with investors and analysts, the Chairman has, The company has in place a formal policy on auditor independently, initiated formal contact with all shareholders or independence and non-audit services, with which the external their representatives holding more than 1% of the issued share auditors are required to comply, to ensure that the independence capital of the company.
The purpose of this contact is to enable of the auditors is not impaired by the nature of non-audit work.
the Chairman to address any queries shareholders may have The policy stipulates work which is permitted or not permitted regarding the governance of the company or non-operational to be performed by the auditors, and provides for appropriate aspects of company strategy.
It is also, more broadly, designed approval and oversight processes.
As a further safeguard, PwC to give the board a greater awareness of shareholder concerns.
confirms in a formal report to the audit committee that processes Alongside the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director is also to ensure compliance with this policy are in place and that these available to discuss issues with shareholders and views expressed processes are monitored regularly.
This report includes a will be communicated by the Chairman to the board.
As part statement that, in its opinion, PwC believes that the nature of of this initiative, the Chairman offers to meet with significant its non-audit services has not impaired the audit of the company.
shareholders in the month before the annual general meeting Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements has a breakdown specifically to deal with issues arising from the annual report of non-audit services provided to the group by the auditors for and notice of the annual general meeting.
All non-executive the year under review.
directors of the company are invited to participate in this process.
The audit committee is satisfied that, for the period under review, Comment on the annual report is conveyed through the audit the independence of the auditors has not been affected by the and remuneration committees and the Company Secretary provision of non-audit services.
The committee has also implemented a formal system for the review of the effectiveness of the external auditors.
This process Risk management involves the external auditors presenting to the committee their 8. proposed audit strategy followed by the output of their initial discussions with management.
At the audit committee meeting The groups risk management system is subject to regular review in May, the external auditors present the output of their detailed to ensure full compliance with the requirements of the Combined year-end work.
In making its assessment of external auditor Code and the Turnbull Guidance 2005 on internal control and effectiveness, the committee reviews the audit engagement letters risk management and is designed to deliver improved value to before signature by management, reviews the external auditors the operating businesses.
summary of group and subsidiary issues and managements 8.1 Risk and the board of directors response to the summary, and conducts an overall review of The directors are ultimately responsible for the groups risk the effectiveness of the external audit process and the external management system and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This review is facilitated by the use of templates that management system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, rate effectiveness across 18 critical criteria.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and there is an ongoing process in place for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting on the significant risks faced by individual group companies and by the group as a whole.
This process has been in place for the year under review up to and including the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the group are set out on page 8.
Corporategovernance 39 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate governance continued 8.2 Executive committee Key features of the systems of internal control are: Excom has specific responsibility as the risk management the risk management system described in the committee for the groups system of risk management.
Bi-annually, preceding section: excom reviews the groups significant risks and subsequently reports to the board on material changes and the associated written policies and procedures within our businesses, mitigating actions.
which are detailed in policy manuals: In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005, reviews on the clearly defined lines of accountability and delegation effectiveness of the risk management system were carried out of authority: by the risk management committee in April and September 2007 identification and regular testing of key financial and in April 2008. controls through the IFC programme: 8.3 Enterprise-wide risk management key policies employed in managing operating risk involve Excom views the careful and appropriate management of risk segregation of duties, transaction authorisation, monitoring, as a key management role.
Managing business risk to deliver financial and managerial and comprehensive reporting and opportunities is a key element of all our business activities.
analysis against approved standards and budgets: This is undertaken using a practical and flexible framework which provides a consistent and sustained approach to risk group treasury operations which manage exposure to interest evaluation.
The business risks, which may be strategic, rate, counterparty, liquidity and currency transaction risks operational, financial, environmental or concerning the groups and co-ordinate the activities of group companies in this reputation, are understood and visible.
Treasury policies, risk limits and monitoring procedures determines in each situation the level of acceptable risk and are reviewed regularly by the audit committee on behalf controls.
We continue to seek improvement in the management of the board: of risk by sharing best practice throughout the organisation.
a group tax risk and tax operating framework which forms the Key features of the groups system of risk management are: basis of tax governance across the group and is managed by a group tax function, which monitors tax risk and implements group statements on strategic direction, ethics and values: strategies and procedures to control it: clear business objectives and business principles: minimisation of operating risk by using appropriate an established risk policy: infrastructure, controls, systems and people throughout the businesses: and a continuing process for identification and evaluation of significant risks to the achievement of business objectives: business continuity planning, including preventative and contingency measures, back-up capabilities and the purchase management processes in place to mitigate significant risks of insurance.
to an acceptable level: Assurance on compliance with systems of internal control and ongoing monitoring of significant risks and internal and on their effectiveness is obtained through regular management external environmental factors that may change the groups reviews, review of key financial controls, internal audit reviews risk profile: and and quality assurance described in section 10 opposite, testing a regular review by the group of both the type and amount of of certain aspects of the internal financial control systems by the external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the availability external auditors during the course of their statutory examinations of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of and regular reports to the audit committee by the external the risks involved.
The groups divisional Finance, Control and Assurance committees consider the results of these reviews, to confirm In addition to excoms bi-annual reports to the board on key risks, that controls are functioning and to ensure that any material there is a process of regular reporting to the board through the breakdowns and remedial actions have been reported to the audit committee on the status of the risk management process.
This does not apply in respect Key annual reports include those that identify, rank, monitor and of the groups associated undertakings or joint ventures.
measure strategic, operational and financial risks in each division At the half year and at the year end the divisional managing and on a group basis.
directors and finance directors of all the groups operations, and each of the groups functional directors, are required to submit formal letters of representation on controls, compliance Internal control and notification of continuing or potential material financial and 9. legal exposures.
The Turnbull Guidance sets out best practice on internal control These letters form the subject of reports to the audit committee.
for UK listed companies to assist them in assessing the application They cover all subsidiary companies but do not cover associates of the Combined Codes principles and compliance with the except for Tsogo Sun, which does submit letters of representation Combined Codes provisions with regard to internal control.
Where material, group executives sit on the The groups systems of internal control are designed and operated boards of associated companies.
Directors and members of the to support the identification, evaluation and management of risks executive committee also make annual written declarations of affecting the group and the business environment in which it interests and are obliged to report without delay any potential operates.
As such, they are subject to continuous review as or actual conflicts of interest which may arise.
circumstances change and new risks emerge.
The company has made significant progress towards achieving substantive compliance with s404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act through an Internal Financial Control IFC programme.
This is a voluntary initiative, and has led to a further strengthening of internal control systems and processes within the group.
40 Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The directors are responsible for the groups systems of internal Whistleblowing measures control and for reviewing their effectiveness annually.
The board 11. has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the groups internal All employees in most subsidiaries within the group have the controls covering material financial, operational and compliance opportunity to make confidential disclosures about suspected controls and risk management systems for the year under review.
The Company Secretary or the Necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy Deputy Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chief any significant weaknesses identified from the boards review Internal Auditor, decides on the appropriate method and level of the internal control system.
The systems of internal control of investigation.
The audit committee is notified of all disclosures are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure made and receives reports on the results of all investigations and to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but actions taken.
The audit committee has the power to request not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
further information, conduct its own inquiries or order additional In reviewing these, the board has taken into account the results action as it sees fit.
of all the work carried out by internal and external auditors.
The board, with advice from the audit committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal John Davidson General Counsel and Group Company Secretary control for the period since 1 April 2007 in accordance with the For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc Turnbull Guidance, and is satisfied that this system is in accordance with that Guidance and that it has been in place throughout the 2 June 2008 year under review and up to the date of this report.
The global internal audit function consists of local and regional internal audit functions operating in each of the groups principal business units, centrally co-ordinated by the group internal audit team and led by the Chief Internal Auditor.
In keeping with the groups decentralised collaborative management structure, the local internal audit functions report to local senior finance management but have direct access to local audit committees, Group Internal Audit and the Chief Internal Auditor.
The local and regional audit functions have continuous, unfettered interface with the group internal audit function, which reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer and has direct access to the audit committee through the Chief Internal Auditor.
Internal audit activities are performed either by teams of appropriate, qualified and experienced employees, or through the engagement of external practitioners upon specified and agreed terms with equivalent access.
The Chief Internal Auditor prepares formal reports for each audit committee meeting as to the consolidated activities and key findings of the global internal audit function.
The global internal audit function utilises a standardised group-wide internal audit methodology and has implemented a formal global quality assurance and effectiveness programme.
Accordingly, detailed quality review assessments are performed with regard to the local and regional internal audit teams, to ensure compliance with defined quality and performance measures.
This process provides a basis for the annual review of the effectiveness of the global internal audit function and results in a formal report prepared by the Chief Internal Auditor to the audit committee to support the committees formal annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal audit.
In addition, periodic reviews by independent external consultants are undertaken when deemed necessary by the audit committee.
In February 2008, an external effectiveness review was performed by Deloitte, reporting positive results and rating the groups internal audit function as high quality.
The audit committee has therefore satisfied itself that adequate, objective internal audit assurance standards and procedures exist within the group, and that continuous improvement in the quality and objectivity of the global internal audit function remains a primary objective of the department.
Corporategovernance 41 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
