49 Corporate governance statement The Company and the Group are committed to high standards of and regulations are complied with.
The Secretary ensures that the corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the Companys directors take independent professional advice as required at the expense shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes of the Company when it is judged necessary to discharge their how the relevant principles of corporate governance are applied by the responsibilities as directors.
The appointment and removal of the Company.
Throughout the year the Company has been in compliance Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
with the provisions set out in the Revised Combined Code 2006 on The Board meets formally not less than six times a year, reviewing Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and monitoring Combined Code, other than A.
3.2 relating to the composition of the strategy, examining major acquisition opportunities and reviewing regular Board and C. 3.1 relating to the composition of the Audit Committee reports to shareholders.
In the year under review the Board met on ten of the Board.
occasions, six such meetings being formal Board meetings with a further Rule A.
3.2 requires at least half the Board, not counting the Chairman, four meetings of the Board called at short notice and held by telephone.
to comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be All directors in office at the time attended all of these Board meetings independent.
For the period from the resignation of Sir Julian Horn-Smith other than Ms R Markland, who was unable to attend one meeting, and and the appointment of Mr A J Hobson to the role of acting Chairman each of Messrs Stobart and Walker and Ms Ingram and Markland, who of the Board on 27 April 2007, to the appointment to the Board of were unable to attend meetings called on short notice on one occasion.
Mr M E Rolfe on 1 December 2007 this ratio was not maintained.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that There were a number of changes to the Board during the year which the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully considered.
made compliance difficult to achieve for a short period.
However, the To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive Board took steps to mitigate this non-compliance by immediately appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers are distributed by the appointing executive search consultants to identify new non-executive Secretary to all directors in advance of Board meetings.
With the appointment of Mr Rolfe on 1 December 2007 the the Board have evaluated the performance of the Board, its committees Company was again fully compliant with the rule.
and individual members at meetings and also through the completion Rule C. 3.1 requires the Audit Committee of the Board to comprise of detailed questionnaires.
These are reviewed and considered by the all independent non-executive directors.
From his appointment on Chairman and by the Board as a whole.
In the year under review, the 27 April 2007 to the role of acting Chairman of the Board, Mr A J Hobson, questionnaires indicated no areas of concern.
who was Chairman of the Audit Committee at that time, ceased to be The current Board complies with the main principle in paragraph A.
3 independent for the purposes of that rule and the Company therefore of the Combined Code in that it includes a balance of executive and ceased to comply.
During this period the Company considered it non-executive directors so that no individual or small group of individuals appropriate for Mr Hobson to continue to chair the Committee whilst the can dominate the Boards decision taking.
search for a successor was undertaken.
Mr M E Rolfe was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2007 and joined its Audit Committee.
New members of the Board undergo a full, formal and tailored induction Mr Rolfe, whose biography appears on page 45, took over the role of to the Board.
Mr I Mason and Mr M E Rolfe, who were appointed to the chair of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2008 and Mr Hobson retired Board on 1 November 2007 and 1 December 2007 respectively, have from the Committee at that time.
The Company, therefore, is again fully undertaken such an induction process.
The Chairman The terms of reference for the Chairman of the Board ensure that this role The workings of the Board and its committees is quite distinct from that of the Chief Executive and are set out on the The Board Companys website at www.
The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive directors and five other independent nonThe Chairman of the Board has held meetings with the non-executive executive directors.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive directors without the executive directors.
In addition, the non-executive are quite distinct from one another and are clearly defined in written directors have met without the Chairman present to appraise the terms of reference for each role adopted by the Board and available to Chairmans performance.
The Chairman also ensures that shareholder shareholders on request to the Secretary at the registered office and on communication and responses are discussed at each meeting of the Board and that all shareholders have access to the non-executive the Companys website at www.
directors, through a request to the Chairman or the Secretary.
The directors biographies appear on pages 44 and 45.
These demonstrate that the directors have a range of experience and are of The Senior Independent Director sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, The Board has appointed Mr T C W Ingram to the role of Senior performance, resources and standards of conduct, which is vital to the Independent Director.
This role provides a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, other than through success of the Group.
All directors are subject to re-election at least every the Chairman.
He is available to consult with shareholders and also chairs three years.
meetings of the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
Where it is considered appropriate, training is made available Committees of the Board to directors and training needs are assessed as part of the evaluation Committees of the Board deal with certain specific aspects of the procedure of the Board referred to below.
A statement of the directors Groups affairs.
These Committees are the Remuneration Committee, responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on pages 52 and 53. the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Details of all these The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters specifically Committees are set out below.
Whilst the Board notes that a number of reserved to it for decision which is available to shareholders on request to independent non-executive directors are members of more than one the Secretary at the registered office and which is also available on the Board Committee, it is considered that membership is appropriate in light Companys website at www.
All directors have access to the of the Boards policy that all independent non-executive directors are advice and services of the Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for given the opportunity to take part in the discussions of those Committees.
ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules 50 The terms of reference of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Meetings Committees are reviewed annually and are available on request from the The Committee invites executive directors, management, external and Secretary at the registered office of the Company or on the Companys internal auditors to attend meetings as it considers appropriate for the website at www.
Remuneration Committee Work of the Committee The Groups Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr T C W Ingram In the financial year, the Audit Committee met on four occasions with and its other members are the Chairman of the Board, Mr A J Hobson, all members present on each occasion and reported its conclusions to and the other independent non-executive directors, Ms T Ingram, the Board.
It met privately with the internal and external auditors without Ms R Markland, Mr I Mason who joined the Committee on 1 November executives present.
It also met with executive management and 2007 and Mr M E Rolfe who joined the Committee on 1 December executive directors.
Under its terms of reference, the Committee meets at least twice a The Committee discharged its obligations in respect of the financial year year.
In the year under review, five meetings of the Committee were held as follows: on full notice with a further meeting held at short notice.
All members in office at the time attended all the meetings other than Ms Markland Financial reporting During the year the Committee reviewed the who was unable to attend one meeting held on short notice.
The Chief interim and annual financial statements.
The Committee received Executive may, by invitation of the Committee, attend meetings except a report from the external auditors setting out the accounting or when his own performance and remuneration are under review but he judgemental issues which required its attention.
The auditors reports is not a member of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for were based on a full audit Annual Report and a high level review making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, Interim Report respectively.
on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
Internal controls and risk management The Committee considers The Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other reports from internal audit on the operation of, and issues arising from, benefits for each of the executive directors including share options, the Groups internal control procedures, together with observations performance share awards, performance-related bonus schemes, from the external auditors.
The Committee monitors the effectiveness pension rights and compensation payments.
Remuneration consultants of the Groups risk management process, which considers the key advise the Committee.
The Committee also monitors remuneration for risks, both financial and non-financial, facing the Group and the those senior executives below Board level.
effectiveness of the Groups controls to manage and reduce the The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive impact of those risks.
The Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Internal audit Internal audit activities and responsibilities are provided Details of the Companys policies on directors remuneration are given in by KPMG, under an outsourcing agreement.
The Groups Risk the Remuneration report on pages 54 to 65, together with further details Director provides oversight and coordination of Internal Audit but Internal Audit has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee and of the Remuneration Committee.
An Internal Audit charter Audit Committee is also in place which outlines the objectives, authority, scope and The Audit Committee was chaired by Mr A J Hobson until 1 April 2008 responsibilities of Internal Audit.
Performance against this charter is when Mr M E Rolfe who joined the Committee on 1 December 2007 reviewed on an ongoing basis.
became its chair and Mr Hobson retired from the Committee.
Its other members are independent non-executive directors, Mr T C W Ingram, It is the role of Internal Audit to advise management and the Board Ms R Markland and Mr I Mason who joined the Committee on on the extent to which systems of internal control are effective.
Ms T Ingram joined the Committee on 1 October The Internal Audit plan which covers the scope, authority and 2008.
Mr Hobson and Mr Rolfe are both Fellows of the Institute of resources of the function is determined through a structured Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and are considered by the process of risk assessment and is approved by the Audit Committee.
Board to have the recent and relevant financial experience required for the The nature and scope of the work of the internal audit team was provisions of the Combined Code.
The other members of the Committee reviewed and approved, the reports of results received and the have a wide range of business experience, which is evidenced in their responses of management considered.
The plan set out at the biographies on pages 44 and 45.
The Board makes appointments to beginning of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work the Committee and the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the was in line with expectations.
Full induction training is provided for new members and External audit The Audit Committee is responsible for the additional training is provided as and when required.
development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy The main duties of the Committee, set out in its terms of reference, are to: on external audit.
Make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the external auditors and to monitor their performance and independence: independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory Approve and monitor the policy for non-audit services provided by the requirements to the Audit Committee and day to day responsibility to external auditors to ensure that the independence of the auditors is the Group Finance Director.
not compromised: Review and advise the Board on the Companys interim and annual To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit financial statements, its accounting policies and on the control and Committee reviewed: mitigation of its financial and business risks: The external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any Review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the variations: external and internal auditors, the results of their audit work and of the The robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling response of management: and of key accounting and audit judgements: and Review and advise the Board on the effectiveness of the Companys The content of the external auditors Internal Control Report.
internal control environment, including its whistleblowing procedures.
51 The current external auditors were appointed to that role in 1988. the external audit.
The fees in relation to these services were 2,025,000 The Committee has determined that formal consideration of a tender of which 1,819,000 was attributable to tax services and tax compliance process will be undertaken every five years, with the next such review work and 206,000 to other non-tax compliance services.
Further details taking place in the financial year ending in September 2009.
There are of fees paid to auditors are set out on page 77. no contractual restrictions on the choice of the Committee as to external The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the external audit and, having considered the services provided by the current auditors are re-appointed.
external auditors, their independence and knowledge of the Group, the Committee has determined to recommend to the Board the Nomination Committee reappointment of the auditors at the Annual General Meeting in The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, March 2009.
In reaching this decision, the Committee also had Mr A J Hobson and consists of the Chairman and five independent regard to the likelihood of a withdrawal of the auditor from the market.
non-executive directors, Mr T C W Ingram, Ms T Ingram, Ms R Markland, Mr I Mason who joined the Committee on 1 November 2007 and The scope, fee, performance and independence of the external auditor Mr M E Rolfe who joined the Committee on 1 December 2007.
In the is considered annually by the Audit Committee.
absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Committee is chaired by the The Committee is confident that the objectivity and independence of Senior Independent Director.
The Nomination Committee meets not less the auditors is not impaired in any way by reason of their non-audit than once a year.
Four meetings of the Committee took place in the year work and has adopted controls to ensure that this independence is not under review at which all the members of the Committee in office at the compromised.
These controls include the continued monitoring of the time were present other than on one occasion when Ms Markland was independence and effectiveness of the audit process.
Audit partners are rotated every five years and a formal statement The Nomination Committee is responsible for a number of matters of independence from the external auditors is received each year.
relating to the composition of the Board and its committees including In addition, the Audit Committee has adopted a specific policy on auditor proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to its independence drawing together the various existing Group policies in this balance and structure and considering issues of succession.
This policy requires that there is full consideration of independence consultants are used to assist in the process.
The Nomination Committee issues before any appointment of an employee or former employee of the is also responsible for an annual review of the membership of the Board, auditor to a position with the Group.
It expressly states that the Group will evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board not engage the auditors to undertake any work that could threaten the and advising the Board on any areas where further recruitment may be independence of the auditors and prohibits the Group from engaging the appropriate.
It also considers the succession planning of the Group for auditors to undertake certain types of service, such as, amongst others, key executive personnel at Board level and below.
The Secretary acts human resources services, legal and actuarial services.
as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee believes that the Company receives particular benefit Relations with shareholders from tax advice provided by its auditors given their wide and detailed Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
The Chairmans knowledge of the Group and its very international nature.
Executive welcome and Business review on pages 2 to 43 include a detailed review management has the discretion, subject to certain financial limitations, of the business and future developments in relation to it.
A full Annual to obtain taxation services from the auditors without prior reference to the Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders who so wish.
The Audit Committee, subject to regularly appraising the Audit Committee of Company also has a website www.
com which contains up to date the amount and nature of fees for such services.
Where these financial information on Group activities and published financial results.
There is limitations are exceeded, the approval of the Audit Committee is required regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and there are for such appointment.
The Group also receives taxation advice from other presentations to analysts after the Companys announcement of the yearlarge accountancy practices as and when appropriate.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives an Non-audit services other than in relation to taxation may be undertaken update on presentations to investors and any communication from by the external auditors, subject to the rules referred to above, and all shareholders to ensure that directors, both executive and non-executive, projects expected to cost in excess of an amount set by the Audit have an understanding of their views.
Committee being approved in advance either by the Chairman of the The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private Audit Committee or by the full Audit Committee, depending on the and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
expected cost of the project.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee may require that such projects are put out to tender to a number of firms.
Internal control and risk management It is the policy of the Committee to require that acquisition due diligence The Board is responsible for the operation and effectiveness of the be undertaken by firms other than the auditors unless conflicts of interest Groups system of internal controls and risk management.
There is an for comparable firms make this impractical.
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant At each meeting, the Committee receives a report from the external risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the year auditors providing an update on the fees for non-audit services incurred under review and up to the date of approval of this report.
It is regularly since the previous meeting.
Where the cumulative non-audit fees reviewed by the Board and complies fully with the Turnbull guidance.
excluding tax in the year exceeds a certain sum the prior approval of the The internal control systems are designed to meet the Groups particular Audit Committee is required before the external auditor undertakes any needs and the risks to which it is exposed and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against misstatement or non-audit work other than in relation to tax.
The effectiveness of this process has been reviewed by the Audit In the year to 30 September 2008 the audit fee was 1,651,000.
Committee, which reports its findings to the Board.
The Companys auditors,  LLP, also perform non-audit services for the Group principally tax advice over and above 52 The processes used by the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness Internal audit of the system of internal control include discussions with management The Group utilises internal audit resource supplied by KPMG to review on significant risk areas identified and the review of plans for, and results compliance with procedures and assess the integrity of the control environment.
Internal audit acts as a service to the businesses by from, internal and external audits.
assisting with the continuous improvement of controls and procedures.
The Audit Committee reports the results of its review of the risk Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations and these are assessment process to the Board.
The Board then draws its collective followed up by the Audit Committee to ensure that satisfactory control conclusion as to the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The key procedures, which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control, are as follows: Budgetary process A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual budgets for Indication of business risks all operating subsidiaries being approved by respective subsidiary boards.
The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success Subsequently the combined budget is subject to consideration and of the Group are an integral part of the internal control environment.
Management information systems provide Such processes, which are reviewed and improved as necessary, the directors with relevant and timely information required to monitor include strategic planning, the appointment of senior managers, the financial performance.
regular monitoring of performance and control over capital expenditure and acquisitions.
The Company has formed a Risk Committee consisting Investment appraisal including acquisitions of the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, the Group Risk Director, Budgetary approval and defined authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
As part of the budgetary process the Board the Secretary and certain other members of the Executive Committee.
considers proposals for research and development programmes.
The Committee reviews all business activities and strategic plans to Acquisition activity is subject to internal guidelines governing investment identify the nature and extent of the significant risks facing the Group appraisal criteria, financial targets, negotiation, execution and postincluding those risks arising from social, environmental and ethical acquisition management.
issues and undertakes risk review audits.
In identifying significant risks to which the Group is exposed, it reviews the results of any relevant internal Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of audit reviews and agrees mitigating actions, when possible.
The Risk the Combined Code Committee reports to the Audit Committee.
Through the work of the Audit Other than as referred to at page 49 above, the Company has been in and Risk Committees, the Board is provided with a balanced assessment full compliance with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined of the significant risks associated with the Groups operations and the Code throughout the year.
effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
A whistleblowing telephone hotline service has been introduced in many Going concern operating companies in the Group including all those in the UK and US The following statement has been included in accordance with the Listing allowing employees to raise issues of concern in relation to dishonesty Rules: Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the or malpractice on an entirely confidential basis.
The Audit Committee directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group receives regular reports on any matters raised through this service and have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the monitors its use throughout the Group.
Processes for the confidential foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the reporting of concerns have been introduced in France and Germany and going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
the Group is considering the introduction of further telephone hotlines where local legislation permits.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Quality and integrity of personnel Remuneration report and the Group and parent Company financial The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
High quality Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group Management structure financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting The Board has overall responsibility for the Group.
Each executive director Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the parent has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and A clearly defined organisation structure exists within which individual United Kingdom Accounting Standards UK GAAP.
In preparing the responsibilities are identified and can be monitored.
The management Group financial statements, the directors have also elected to comply with of the Group as a whole is delegated to the Chief Executive and the IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The conduct of Sages individual businesses is The Group and parent Company financial statements are required by law delegated to the local executive management teams.
These teams are to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the accountable for the conduct and performance of their businesses within Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
They have full authority to act subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and to Group policies and guidelines.
53 In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by the IASB, and with regard to the parent Company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors and advisers section on pages 44 and 45, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and The directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Each of the persons who is a director at the time of this report confirms that: So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
By Order of the Board M J Robinson Secretary 17 December 2008
