Financial statement of Salamander Energy PLC Group continued b Basis of consolidation Interest revenue The consolidated financial statements consist of the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary Interest revenue is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective undertakings.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Revenues and the results of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated in the consolidated income statement from the dates on which control over the operating and financial decisions is obtained.
Where necessary, g Derivative Financial instruments and Hedge accounting adjustments are made to the results of Subsidiary and Joint Venture Entities to bring the Accounting Policies The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to movements in oil and gas prices.
into line to those used by the group.
The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes.
c Commercial reserves Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
Commercial reserves are proved and probable oil and gas reserves, which are defined as the estimated The purpose for which a derivative is used is established at inception.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and engineering data derivative must be highly effective in achieving its objective and this effectiveness must be documented at demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and inception and throughout the period of the instrument designation.
which are considered commercially viable.
There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount estimated as proven and probable reserves and a 50% Gains or losses on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment either from inception statistical probability that it will be less.
or during the life of the instrument are taken directly to the Income Statement in the period.
These include economic hedges that might qualify as accounting hedges, but were not designated as such at inception.
d Joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic The estimated fair value of these derivatives is included in other creditors or other debtors in the Balance Sheet activity that is subject to joint control.
and the related changes in the fair value are included in finance costs in the Income Statement.
Upfront contract fees and realised gains and losses upon settlement are included within revenue in the Income Statement over Where a Group Company undertakes its activities under joint venture arrangements directly, the Groups share the hedged period.
of jointly-controlled assets and any liabilities incurred jointly with other venturers are recognised in the financial statements of the relevant company and classified according to their nature.
During 2008 and 2007 there were no derivatives that were designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
Liabilities and expenses incurred directly in respect of interests in jointly-controlled assets are accounted for on h Cost of sales an accruals basis.
Income from the sale or use of the Groups share of the output of jointly-controlled assets, and Underlift and overlift its share of joint venture expenses, are recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated Lifting or offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced in certain of the Groups jointly owned operations are such with the transaction will flow to from the Group and their amount can be measured reliably.
that each participant may not receive and sell its precise share of the overall production in each period.
The resulting imbalance between cumulative entitlement and cumulative production is underlift or overlift.
Underlift and Joint venture arrangements which involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer as an overlift are valued at market value and included within debtors and creditors respectively.
Movements during an interest are referred to as jointly-controlled entities.
The Group reports its interest in jointly-controlled entities accounting period are adjusted through Cost of Sales such that Gross Profit is recognised on an entitlements basis.
using proportionate consolidation, that is, the Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of jointly-controlled entities are combined with the equivalent items in consolidated financial statements on a i Share based payment line-by-line basis.
The Company has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share based payment.
Where the Group transacts with its jointly-controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the The Group makes equity settled Share Based Payment to certain employees.
Equity settled share based extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture.
schemes are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
e Acquisitions The fair value determined at the grant of the equity settled Share Based Payment is expensed on a straight On an acquisition that qualifies as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combination, line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The expenses so the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Any excess recognised are simultaneously added back as an adjustment through equity.
of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill j Operating leases which is treated as an intangible asset.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the Rentals under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
If the Group acquires a group of assets or equity in a company that does not constitute a business combination k Foreign currencies in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combination, the cost of the acquired group of assets or equity is allocated The US Dollar is the presentation currency of the Group.
On consolidation, financial statements of foreign to the individual identifiable assets acquired based on their relative fair value.
currency denominated subsidiaries are translated into US Dollars whereby the results of the overseas f Revenue operations are translated at the average rate of exchange for the period and their balance sheets at rates of Revenue represents the sales value, net of VAT and equivalent taxes, and overriding royalties, of the Groups exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Currency translation adjustments arising on the restatement of share of liftings in the period together with tariff income.
opening net assets of foreign subsidiaries, together with differences between the subsidiaries results translated at average rates versus closing rates, are taken directly to reserves.
All resulting exchange differences are Revenue received under take-or-pay sales contracts in respect of undelivered volumes is accounted for classified as equity until disposal of the subsidiary.
On disposal the cumulative amounts of the exchange as deferred income.
Revenue is recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
differences are recognised as income or expense.
44 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 45 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008
