qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:32 Page 50 Corporate Governance Report The role of the Board Reserved and delegated authorities Introduction The Board has responsibility for the overall There is a formal schedule of matters In managing the affairs of the Group, the management and performance of the reserved to the Board.
This schedule, Board of Serco Group plc is committed to Group, the approval of its long-term which is reviewed annually, includes achieving high standards of corporate objectives and commercial strategy and for approval of: governance, integrity and business ethics ensuring that any necessary corrective for all its activities around the world.
A Group strategy action is taken promptly.
fundamental part of the Groups corporate Annual financial and operating plans governance processes is the Ethics and Reporting to the Board, the Corporate Major capital expenditure, acquisitions or Business Conduct Policy Standard that the Assurance Group CAG is tasked by the divestments Company and Group have adopted to Group to develop and oversee corporate support the highest standards of corporate processes for the identification and Annual and interim financial results governance.
management of business risks and the Satisfying itself as to the integrity of appropriate application of the Serco Throughout 2008 Serco Group plc financial information Management System SMS and corporate complied fully with the provisions of Dividend policy responsibility activities throughout the Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Group.
The Business Review on pages 12 Ensuring adequate succession planning Corporate Governance issued by the to 48 details the internal control and risk for the Board and senior management Financial Reporting Council the Code.
policies, procedures and management and appointing and removing Directors, The paragraphs below, together with the framework adopted by the Group.
the Company Secretary and Committee Business Review on pages 12 to 48 and members The Corporate Responsibility Review, the Remuneration Report on pages 63 to which covers the whole spectrum of Treasury policy 78, provide details of how the Company corporate assurance processes and has applied the principles and complies Review of the effectiveness of the outcomes for 2008, is available online at with the provisions of the Code.
Groups system of internal control and www.
com and illustrates how risk management process Sercos approach to corporate assurance The Board of Directors Training and development of the Board and responsibility translates from the Board composition and the Company Secretary.
Board into everyday working practices.
Currently the Board has seven members: Other specific responsibilities are the Chairman, two Executive Directors and Conflicts of interest delegated to Board Committees which four Non-Executive Directors.
No individual At the Companys last annual general operate within clearly defined terms of or group of individuals dominates the meeting shareholders approved reference.
Details of the responsibilities Boards decision-making.
With the amendments to the Articles of Association, delegated to the Committees are given on exception of the Chairman who is which, in accordance with the Companies pages 54 and 55. presumed under the Code not to be Act 2006, included provisions concerning independent, the Board considers all of conflicts of interest.
In deciding whether to the Non-Executive Directors to be authorise a conflict or potential conflict of independent.
In coming to this conclusion interest only non-interested Directors i. e. the Board has determined that each those that have no interest in the matter Director is independent in character and under consideration will be able to take judgement and there are no relationships the relevant decision: in taking the decision or circumstances which are likely to affect, the Directors must act in a way they or could appear to affect, the Directors consider, in good faith, will be most likely judgements.
to promote the Companys success.
In Each Director brings a valuable range of addition, the Directors may impose experience and expertise to the Board.
conditions or limitations when giving The profiles of all Directors can be found authorisation if they think this is on pages 60 and 61. appropriate.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:32 Page 51 Information flow Chairman and Chief Executive External directorships for Executive Senior executives below Board level attend As Chairman, Kevin Beeston is Directors certain Board meetings at which they responsible for: The Board considers that Executive make presentations on the results and Directors can gain valuable experience and Ensuring the effective running of the strategies of their divisional units and knowledge through appropriate and limited Board, its agenda and processes functional areas of the Group.
Board non-executive appointments in other listed Promoting the highest standards of members are given appropriate companies or independent sector corporate governance and ensuring documents in advance of each Board organisations.
The Board is careful to appropriate communication with meeting and each Committee meeting, ensure that any such appointments do not shareholders on these standards and as appropriate.
compromise the effective management of the Groups overall performance the Group and that these are approved in Board meetings are routinely held four advance of any appointments being taken Ensuring appropriate Director times a year over two days at a time and up.
Details of the fees received by development and succession planning are structured to allow open discussion of Executive Directors for external for the Board.
the strategy, trading and financial appointments can be found in the performance and risk management of the The Chief Executive, Christopher Hyman, Remuneration Report on page 69.
is responsible for: Board and Committee meetings are held The formation and implementation of the Significant other commitments of the at varying locations and the opportunity is Groups global strategy Chairman used to combine the formal business of Kevin Beeston is non-executive Chairman Delivery of the Groups business plan the Board with site visits and divisional of Partnerships in Care, Infinitas Learning Providing motivation and leadership to presentations and discussions.
Additional BV and Domestic and General Ltd, and is the operating divisions, chairing the Board meetings are scheduled if required, a non-executive director of IMI plc.
Kevin is Global Management Board and setting usually to discuss major transactions, if also a member of the CBI Presidents its style and tone any.
Committee and Chairman of the CBIs Setting the overall policy and direction of Public Services Strategy Board.
The Board The attendance of individual Directors at Sercos business operations, continues to believe that Kevin holds a Board meetings held during the year which investments and other activities within a well-balanced portfolio of positions which they were eligible to attend is shown in the framework of prudent and effective risk allow him to appropriately perform his table on page 52. management and ensuring that divisions duties as Chairman.
and functions control those risks Company Secretary and independent satisfactorily advice The Company Secretary is responsible for Providing leadership and representation advising the Board on all corporate of the Group with major customers and governance matters, ensuring that all industry organisations.
Board procedures are followed, ensuring good information flow and facilitating Senior Independent Director induction programmes for Directors.
Margaret Ford was appointed Senior Independent Director in October 2007.
As All Directors have access to the advice part of her role, Margaret is available to and services of the Company Secretary.
shareholders if they have any issues or The Board has approved a procedure for wish to discuss any aspects of the Directors to take independent professional Companys business without the Executive advice, if necessary, at the Companys Directors or Chairman present.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:32 Page 52 Re-election of Directors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, a Director must retire at the annual general meeting but is eligible for re-appointment if he or she has held office for more than 30 months as at the date of the notice convening the annual general meeting since he or she was appointed or last re-appointed.
Any Directors appointed by the Board since the last annual general meeting must stand for re-election at the next annual general meeting.
Any Non-Executive Directors who have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
The names of the Directors retiring and standing for re-election at the 2009 Annual General Meeting are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Non-Executive Directors Independence All the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and have no crossdirectorships or significant links which could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
Term of appointment All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, subject to satisfactory performance, they may serve one or two additional three-year terms, with a thorough review of their continued independence and suitability to continue as Non-Executive Directors being undertaken if they are to remain on the Board for more than nine years.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of the Directors are summarised in the Remuneration Report on pages 69 and 70 and are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Meetings of Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors meet separately without the Chairman or Executive Directors being present at least once a year principally to appraise the Chairmans performance.
This meeting is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
Board meetings and attendance The Board holds its meetings on a quarterly basis with ad hoc meetings in between if required.
Board meetings are scheduled over two days and are held at varying Group operating locations usually including one overseas meeting per annum.
This allows a thorough exposure to the Groups activities, customers and management.
The frequency and content of Board meetings are reviewed by the Board annually.
The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2008 was as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 2 6 meetings 3 meetings 7 meetings 2 meetings Kevin Beeston 6 n a n a 2 Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 53 72 Tom Corcoran 63 72 Margaret Ford 53 72 Christopher Hyman 6 n a n a n a Andrew Jenner 6 n a n a n a David Richardson 63 72 3 Grant Rumbles 1 n a n a n a Notes: 1. n a means that the specified Director is not a member of that Committee, although he or she may attend meetings at the invitation of the chairman of the Committee.
In addition to the six full Board Meetings there was one Board meeting, attended by the Executive Directors only, for the approval of the year-end results which had been considered previously by the full Board.
Grant Rumbles ceased being a Director with effect from 25 March 2008.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:32 Page 53 Performance evaluation Board effectiveness The Group recognises the importance of a Induction comprehensive evaluation process for the On joining the Board, Directors are given Board and ensures that comments and background information describing the recommendations are considered carefully Company and its activities.
They receive and implemented where appropriate to an induction pack which includes ensure its continued development.
A information on all the governance rigorous evaluation of the Board and its processes of the Group, the roles and Committees was undertaken in November responsibilities of the Board, Committees 2008.
This included the completion of an and other management teams and a evaluation questionnaire, one-to-one range of other appropriate information meetings for all Directors held with the about the Group, its activities and its Chairman plus an evaluation of the advisors.
Meetings are also arranged with Chairmans performance led by the Senior a range of key people from across the Independent Director taking into account Group on a structured basis to assist with the views of both the Non-Executive and a Directors induction.
Visits are also Executive Directors.
The outcomes from arranged, where possible, to a number of the Boards appraisal were discussed fully contracts around the country.
at the following Board meeting, and recommendations from the evaluation will Continued professional development be implemented as soon as reasonably During 2008 the Board members were all practicable.
engaged in a range of training and professional development activities.
These All Directors feel that the Board and activities are considered by the Board, Company are open, professional and which also considers the training needs of enjoyable to be a part of and that the Company Secretary.
All Board appropriate information is provided to the members are encouraged to attend Board in the furtherance of its relevant training courses at the Companys responsibilities.
Its diversity, strong sense expense.
The training and development of value and good governance are also needs of the Directors and the Company considered to be key strengths.
While the Secretary have previously been the remit of areas for further development were few, it a separate committee of the Board.
was noted that the balance and structure However, the Board considers itself to be of the Board should be kept under review, best placed to most effectively perform this particularly in light of the growing role without the need for a separate geographic and technical diversity of the sub-committee and the use of the latter Group.
In carrying out the performance evaluation process, the use of an independent evaluator was considered but the Board once again concluded that its own process was sufficiently rigorous.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:32 Page 54 Responsibilities: The main responsibilities Additionally, in accordance with the Board committees of the Audit Committee are: Combined Code, the Committee is The Board has delegated authority to a To monitor the integrity of the financial responsible for a formal whistleblowing number of permanent Committees to deal statements of the Company, including policy and procedure which applies with matters in accordance with written interim management statements, and throughout the Group.
Responsibility for terms of reference.
The terms of reference any formal announcements relating to the operation of this policy has been for all Committees are reviewed on a the Companys financial performance, delegated to the Company Secretary.
regular basis by the Board to ensure they reviewing significant financial reporting are still appropriate and reflect any changes Members of the Audit Committee have judgements contained in them in good practice and governance: these received updates on accounting standards are available online at www.
To review the internal audit programme and generally accepted accounting Committees are authorised to obtain and ensure that the internal audit practice on a quarterly basis as part of the outside legal or other independent function is adequately resourced and has Finance Directors report to the Board, and professional advice if they consider it appropriate standing with the Company also on a half-yearly basis from the external necessary.
To review managements and the internal auditors reports on the effectiveness of During 2008 the Audit Committee The Audit Committee and Audit systems for internal financial control, discharged fully its responsibilities listed Committee Report financial reporting and risk management above and, in doing so, considered the Membership: The Audit Committee following: To consider the appointment, consists solely of independent Nonre-appointment and removal of Corporate Governance Report and Executive Directors.
It is chaired by David the external auditors and assess statement of Directors Responsibilities Richardson and comprises Margaret Ford, independence of the external auditors, for inclusion in the 2007 Annual Review Leonard V. Broese van Groenou and Tom ensuring that key partners are rotated at and Accounts Corcoran.
appropriate intervals 2008 Interim Statement and Auditors The Chairman of the Committee has recent To recommend the audit fee to the report thereon and relevant experience for this role.
The Board and pre-approve any fees in Audit Committee met three times during 2008 external audit fees respect of non-audit services provided the year.
Review of the whistleblowing policy by the external auditors and to ensure At the invitation of the Committee, the that the provision of non-audit services Assessment of the Audit Committee and Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit, does not impair the external auditors the external and internal auditors KPMG LLP the Groups internal audit independence or objectivity 2008 internal audit programme and the providers since July 2008, and Deloitte To discuss with the external auditors, proposed 2009 programme LLP the external auditors, attend before the audit commences, the nature meetings.
The Committee meets with each The continuing independence of the and scope of the audit and to review the of the internal auditors, external auditors external auditors.
auditors quality control procedures and and the Head of Internal Audit separately at As part of a review of the Companys steps taken by the auditors to respond least once a year.
All Directors have access internal audit function and a move to a to changes in regulatory and other to the minutes of the Audit Committee risk-based approach, in May 2008 the requirements meetings.
Company appointed a Head of Internal To oversee the process for selecting the Audit and, with effect from July 2008, external auditors and make appropriate appointed a new external provider of recommendations through the Board to internal audit services, KPMG.
the shareholders to consider at the annual general meeting.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:32 Page 55 Non-audit services: The Committee has The Nomination Committee Executive Committees reconfirmed its policy on the provision of Membership: The Nomination Committee The Board has delegated responsibility for audit and non-audit services by Deloitte.
is chaired by Kevin Beeston and comprises the day-to-day management of the It determined three categories of services: Margaret Ford, David Richardson, Leonard business to the Global Management Board Approved eg.
audit and related assurance V. Broese van Groenou and Tom Corcoran.
tax compliance The Committee met twice during 2008.
The GMB is chaired by the Chief Executive, and due diligence and Not Permitted eg.
Responsibilities: Matters considered Christopher Hyman, and its membership IT services and quasi management during the year included succession and currently comprises 17 senior managers services.
The Committee, the Company, contingency planning, Board structure and representing each of the Groups operating and Deloitte all monitor compliance with composition and the departure of Grant divisions and a number of functional heads, the policy and review at each meeting the Rumbles.
and includes both Executive Directors.
The fees earned and the estimates for the year.
GMB meets formally four times a year, over No appointments were made to the Board The Group has complied with the policy two days at a time, to review the Groups during the year.
The Committee has throughout the year.
Where appropriate activities and discuss management and responsibility for the identification and non-audit services have been provided by operational issues.
nomination, for the approval of the Board, companies other than Deloitte LLP to of candidates to fill board vacancies as and Representatives from across the Serco safeguard auditor objectivity and when they arise, engaging external search business are invited to the meetings to independence.
consultants as and when necessary.
discuss aspects of their business or give Auditors independence: The presentations on specific topics.
The GMB independence, objectivity and effectiveness The Remuneration Committee is able to take a broad view of the business of the external auditors have been Details of the Remuneration Committee due to its membership from across the examined by the Committee and and its policies together with the Directors Group.
discussions were held regarding their terms remuneration, emoluments and interests in A senior group of the GMB, the Executive of engagement, remuneration and proposal the Companys share capital are set out in Team, which is chaired by the Chief for partner rotation.
The Committee the Remuneration Report on pages 63 to Executive and comprises four members considered, specifically, the contract to 78. including the Executive Directors, is provide office services to Deloitte LLP and responsible for the oversight of all aspects was satisfied that no conflict existed.
of the day-to-day operations and trading of The Committee recommended to the the Group.
The Executive Team met 12 Board that Deloitte LLP be proposed for times during the year.
re-appointment at the forthcoming 2009 Annual General Meeting.
This recommendation has been accepted and will be proposed to shareholders.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:32 Page 56 Relationship with Institutional investors Group website The Chief Executive and Finance Director The Group website www.
com is a shareholders have regular dialogue with institutional primary source of information on the The Companys relationship with investors.
The Chairman also meets with Group.
The site includes an area tailored shareholders is given a high priority.
The institutional investors from time to time and for investors, including information such as Annual Review and Accounts is available to as required.
The Companys investor an archive of all reports, announcements, all shareholders and a shorter Annual relations programme and day-to-day presentations and webcasts, share price Review and Summary Financial Statement activities are managed by the Head of tools, the terms of reference for all Board is also available currently, by election or on Investor Relations.
As part of the role of committees and information on voting at request.
Senior Independent Director, Margaret the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
It also Regular trading updates are published Ford, is also available to meet shareholders has a link directly to the Companys ahead of closed periods and before the should it be required.
registrars, allowing shareholders to view annual general meeting by press release.
their shareholding online and to vote on the In addition, during 2008, the Chairman of In addition, press releases and stock resolutions set out in the Notice of Annual the Remuneration Committee contacted exchange announcements are made General Meeting.
the Companys largest shareholders and regarding significant contracts or representative bodies in connection with transactions.
All trading announcements the Companys triennial review of executive are also posted on the Groups website remuneration.
Further details can be found www.
The Company is currently reviewing its The Board receives an investor relations shareholder communications, including a report on a quarterly basis.
This reviews greater use of electronic means, in share price movements and valuation, accordance with the amendment to the changes in the share register, the Articles of Association approved by Companys recent and planned investor shareholders at the annual general meeting relations activities, communication with in 2007.
Any proposed changes will be shareholders, analyst recommendations communicated fully prior to and significant news from the market and implementation.
The report ensures that the Board has a clear understanding of Annual General Meeting the Companys investor relations Individual shareholders have the performance.
opportunity at the annual general meeting to question the Chairman and through him the chairs of the various Board committees and other Directors.
Details of the meeting are set out in the notice of annual general meeting which is sent to shareholders and which contains the text of the resolutions to be proposed and explanatory notes.
Shareholders attending will be advised of the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution, in the categories for and against together with the number of votes withheld.
This information is also posted on the Groups website www.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:32 Page 57 Business conduct Internal control and risk Serco Group operates within a management management system that defines the Further to the comments above regarding policies, standards and processes to be Corporate Assurance, details of the applied where we operate.
Integral to this Groups internal control and risk are our policies on Ethics and Business management processes are contained in Conduct and Human Rights that apply to pages 44 to 49 of the Business Review.
all business divisions, operating companies The Board confirms that the actions it and business units throughout the world.
considers necessary have been taken to remedy any failings and weaknesses which These two policies outline the Groups it has determined to be significant from its position on a wide range of ethical and review of the Groups internal controls and legal issues including conflicts of interest, risk management processes.
financial inducements, human rights and legal and regulatory compliance.
They Going concern apply to Directors and to all employees As discussed further on page 43 of the regardless of their position or location.
Finance Review, the Directors have Recognising that ethical dilemmas may acknowledged the guidance on going arise in a growing company the Group has concern and financial reporting published introduced an Ethics Consultation Process by the Financial Reporting Council in that is to be followed to determine the November 2008.
Whilst the current Groups position on particular issues.
To economic environment is uncertain, the support this process an Ethics Committee Group is well placed to manage its has been established comprising the business risks successfully, and has Executive Team, with a quorum of three adequate resources to continue in and chaired by the Chief Executive.
As the operational existence for the foreseeable leadership of the Company, the Executive future, given that it has a balanced portfolio Team will make any fine judgements about of principally long-term contracts, an what it considers acceptable or otherwise.
order book of 16.3bn, over 90% of its Serco has established a dedicated revenues derived from governments and whistleblowing hotline so that employees substantial debt financing committed for can seek guidance or express any the medium-term.
As at 31 December concerns on Group-related issues.
2008, the Group as a whole had a revenue visibility of 90% for the next 12 month The Company Secretary investigates any period based upon the order book.
Visibility issues raised independently and reports of planned 2010 and 2011 revenues are back to the Board.
Reports can be made already 76% and 65% respectively.
anonymously and without fear of retaliation.
Accordingly, the Group has adopted the The Group maintains a position of going concern basis in preparing the impartiality with respect to party politics.
Accordingly, it does not contribute funds to Approved by the Board of Directors and any political party.
It does, however, signed on its behalf by: contribute to the public debate of policy issues that may affect it in the countries in which it operates.
Joanne Roberts Secretary 26 February 2009 Serco Group plc 57
