qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:14 Page 34 Business relationships Suppliers In transport, for example, our partnership Our reputation for Alongside the hundreds of services Serco with NedRailways began work at Merseyrail manages through contracts on behalf of in 2003 and Northern Rail in 2004. delivering excellent customers, the Group also has its own Together we have become one of the extensive supplier relationships.
UKs major train operating companies.
service and our We take the same approach to suppliers as Our partnership at the Atomic Weapons we do to customers.
We look for long-term Establishment has been highly successful ability to build relationships in which there is opportunity and together we have consistently for continuous improvement and value exceeded service targets.
long-term creation based on innovation.
We continue to create new partnerships In order to continually improve quality and and joint ventures, which include innovative relationships is manage costs, the Group has standardised new business models with customers.
the centralisation of buying goods and In 2008, we formed a strategic joint venture behind the services.
The number of preferred suppliers with Glasgow City Council to improve for such goods and services, ranging from services for citizens through cohesive, consistent success commodity computer peripherals to agency efficient and higher quality property and employees, has reduced and the information and communications Serco has enjoyed terms and conditions enhanced.
In 2009, we announced that we had formed a Procurement policies and processes to date.
partnership with Guy's and St Thomas' are clearly communicated internally and NHS Foundation Trust to improve the facilitated through online purchasing systems Trust's pathology services and target which reduce administration costs, reduce the significant national and international wastage, improve cash flow and give pathology market.
contract managers more time to focus on client needs.
Relationships with joint venture partners are the responsibility of the relevant divisional Joint ventures and strategic management teams, supported by partnerships members of the Group Executive Team and Serco has a number of joint ventures and Board as appropriate.
Regular strategy and strategic partnerships around the world that review meetings ensure the joint venture manage service contracts, particularly in the partners remain firmly committed to working transport, defence and science sectors.
together to deliver services to clients.
Strong relationships, mutual trust and Our track record for successful partnerships respect and clarity of role are all essential speaks volumes.
ingredients if a service is to be successfully delivered through a joint venture.
