24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 32 Corporate governance report Corporate governance Division of responsibilities The board of directors of Severn Trent is committed to the highest In accordance with the Combined Code, separate individuals, Sir John standards of corporate governance.
The board recognises that strong Egan and Tony Wray, are appointed to the positions of Chairman and corporate governance procedures and adherence to best practice are Chief Executive respectively.
Colin Matthews held the position of integral factors in improving group performance and maintaining Chief Executive until his retirement from the board on 2 October 2007. investor confidence.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management of all of the groups businesses and for implementing board strategy Compliance statement and policy within approved budgets and timescales.
The Chief This report describes how Severn Trent has applied the principles Executive is supported by and chairs the Executive Committee.
During of good corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code on the year the Executive Committee comprised the executive directors Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in and senior executive managers responsible for key central and 2006 Combined Code.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2008, operational functions.
the company has complied with the Combined Code provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code apart from the matter Directors independence detailed below.
The board has reviewed the status of the non-executive directors and considers them all to be independent in character and judgment and Following the announcement of the appointment of three additional within the definition of this term in the Combined Code.
executive directors, made on 2 October 2007, the company did not comply with provision A.
3.2. which states that at least half of the board, The Chairman and the non-executive directors contribute external excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors expertise and experience in areas of importance to the group such as determined by the board to be independent.
As stated in the regulatory corporate finance, general finance, corporate strategy, environmental announcement dated 2 October 2007, the board was actively engaged matters, general management and corporate governance.
They also in appointing an additional non-executive director to restore the balance provide independent challenge and rigour to the boards deliberations.
of executive and non-executive directors.
Following the appointments of Richard Davey is the senior independent non-executive director.
He Baroness Noakes and Martin Lamb on 29 February 2008, the company chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit and complied fully with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior Organisation and structure independent non-executive director, meet at least once year, without the Board membership Chairman present, where there is an opportunity for them to appraise The board consists of a non-executive Chairman, five executive directors the Chairmans performance.
and five non-executive directors, ensuring an appropriate balance of Directors interests and remuneration experience and independence.
The directors remuneration report, which includes a statement on the The companys articles of association require all directors to submit companys policy on directors and senior executive managers themselves for reappointment at least every three years.
In addition remuneration, is set out on pages 38 to 47.
The remuneration report to this provision, as a minimum, one third of the board of directors, also provides details of the directors service agreements, emoluments, together with any director appointed since the last Annual General their interests in the shares of the company and in awards or options Meeting, retires each year and, if eligible and so desires, stands for over such shares granted under the companys incentive and employee reappointment at the AGM.
Directors retire on the basis of their length share schemes.
of service since their last election.
No director had a material interest at any time during the year in any Tony Ballance, Martin Kane, Martin Lamb, Baroness Noakes and Andy contract of significance, other than a service contract as shown in the Smith have all been appointed since the last AGM and offer themselves directors remuneration report on page 43, with the company or any for reappointment.
Bernard Bulkin, Richard Davey and Michael McKeon are the directors Directors insurance and indemnities retiring by rotation and offer themselves for reappointment.
Severn Trent purchases directors and officers liability and indemnity insurance to cover its directors and officers against the costs of The Nominations Committee has formally reviewed the performance, defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that contribution and commitment of each of the retiring directors.
The capacity, and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful committee supports and recommends their reappointment to the defence of any proceedings.
The committee has confirmed that each director standing for reappointment continues to make a valuable contribution to the boards Directors terms and conditions of appointment deliberations and continues to demonstrate commitment.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the directors are available for inspection by any person at the companys registered office during The following also served as directors during the year: normal business hours and will be available at the AGM.
Colin Matthews retired from the board as an executive director and Chief Executive on 2 October 2007 John Smith retired from the board as a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee on 29 February 2008 Biographical details for all the directors currently serving on the board are set out on pages 26 and 27.
32 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Governance 24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 33 required to attend these additional meetings, but may do so if they Board meetings and attendance wish.
All directors receive notice of such meetings and have the The board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year and opportunity to comment on the matters under discussion.
The board committees of the board are established to deal with specific issues or had eleven scheduled meetings and eight additional meetings of approvals, as and when necessary.
During the financial year committees committees of the board during the year.
Details of the board and of the board have considered such matters as: final approval of the preprincipal committees meetings attended by each director during close trading statement, interim management statement, appointments the year are set out in the table below.
to the board, results announcements and approval of announcements relating to the SFO and Ofwat investigations.
Not all directors are Corporate Board Committees Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility scheduled of the board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings 1187744 Sir John Egan 11 6 744 1 Tony Ballance 5 3 Bernard Bulkin 10 6534 Richard Davey 113774 Martin Houston 9 4 6 3 2 Martin Kane 5 4 3 Martin Lamb 2 Michael McKeon 11 8 4 Baroness Noakes 2 1 5 Andy Smith 5 3 Tony Wray 11 5 1 6 Colin Matthews 6 2 2 7 John Smith 816 3 1 Appointed 2 10 07 5 Appointed 2 10 07 2 Appointed 2 10 07 6 Resigned 2 10 07 3 Appointed 29 2 08 7 Resigned 29 2 08 4 Appointed 29 2 08 Board procedures Committee and group departments who provide support to the relevant The board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the company is board committees the directors may serve on.
Visits to operational sites properly managed and achieves the strategic objectives it sets.
It has an across the group are also arranged for directors joining the board.
agreed schedule of matters reserved to it, which includes setting long Continuing professional development term strategic and business objectives, overseeing the companys Regular seminars, arranged to coincide with board meetings, are held to internal control systems and ensuring that appropriate resources are in update and refresh the boards knowledge and understanding on a place to enable the company to meet its objectives.
variety of topics during the year.
The seminars are arranged and The Chairman has prime responsibility for the effective workings of the conducted by the General Counsel and Company Secretary and board and agrees the agenda in consultation with the Chief Executive facilitated by an external consultant.
Senior executive managers, and General Counsel and Company Secretary.
appropriate to the material being presented, are also in attendance.
Recent seminars have covered topics including risk management, In addition to the AGM and an annual strategy day, the board meets at directors duties and liabilities and competition in the water industry.
least 10 times in each financial year and convenes additional meetings Forthcoming seminars will address health and safety legislation and the as and when required.
role of regulatory bodies including the FSA, UKLA and Ofwat.
Papers, including minutes of board committees held since the previous There is an agreed procedure in place which allow directors to take board meeting and reports from each of the executive directors independent professional advice in the course of their duties and all responsible for the groups operating businesses or key central directors have access to the advice and services of the General Counsel functions, are circulated in advance of each meeting.
In addition to the and Company Secretary.
Where a director has a concern over any board meetings, the Chairman meets with the non-executive directors unresolved matter he she is entitled to require the General Counsel without the executive directors present.
and Company Secretary to minute that concern.
Should the director Board effectiveness later resign over the issue, the Chairman will bring it to the attention Induction of the board.
On joining the board, directors are provided with a comprehensive induction pack, tailored to their individual requirements, including notes on the group structure, operating businesses within the group, financial reports and business plans, information on corporate governance and group policies.
Meetings are arranged with members of the Executive Severn Trent 33 24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 34 Corporate governance report continued Performance and effectiveness reviews The groups policy is that the external auditors may not carry out work The board evaluated the conclusions from the review carried out in which impairs their independence.
In addition, any material project 2006 07 and took action in relation to the management information work where fees payable to the auditors are likely to exceed 100,000 provided to the board and the board processes identified in it.
must be approved by the Audit Committee.
Where fees are expected to exceed 500,000 the project work would normally be the subject of a During the year the board, with the help of an outside facilitator, competitive selection process.
The level of non audit services provided commenced a formal evaluation of its performance and that of its by the auditors and the associated fees are considered annually by the committees as well as the individual performance of directors.
Each committee, in the context of the auditors independence, as part of the director answered a questionnaire on his her perception of the committees review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
composition, operation and effectiveness of the board and its An analysis of fees payable to the auditors in respect of audit and non committees and on the performance of the chairmen of the board and audit services is provided on page 63. board committees as well as individual directors.
In addition they were interviewed by the facilitator to explore certain issues in greater depth It is the groups policy to seek rotation of the auditors principal and to identify areas requiring improvement.
Conclusions of the engagement partner as a matter of course every five years and of other evaluation are to be discussed in detail at the board, and individually key members of the audit team, where deemed appropriate by the with the director and actions agreed to address any issues raised.
Collectively, the board is satisfied it has all of the necessary skills, The Audit Committee has, throughout the year, monitored the integrity experience and qualities to lead the company.
of the financial statements together with the companys formal announcements relating to its financial performance, paying particular Board Committees attention to significant reporting judgements contained therein.
The board has established an effective committee structure to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the Audit, The Audit Committee has reviewed the risk management process and Remuneration and Nominations Committees the Principal Committees the process by which the board reviews effectiveness of the system of comply with the provisions of the Combined Code and are available for internal control during the year ended 31 March 2008 and has reported inspection, together with the terms of reference of the Corporate to the board on the outcome of this review.
Responsibility Committee and Executive Committee, on the companys The effectiveness of the groups internal audit function has been website www.
com or may be obtained on written request reviewed by the Audit Committee.
from the General Counsel and Company Secretary at the address given on the back cover.
The Audit Committee reviews annually the groups formal whistle blowing policy that deals with allegations from employees relating to Each of the Principal Committees has reviewed its effectiveness and breaches of the groups Code of Conduct.
terms of reference during the year and any necessary actions have been identified and reported to the board.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Richard Davey.
The other The membership of all board committees is set out on page 27. members of the committee are Bernard Bulkin, Sir John Egan and Principal Committees Martin Houston.
Only independent non-executive directors, and the Audit Committee Chairman, who was considered independent on appointment, may serve The Audit Committee has been chaired by Baroness Noakes since her on the committee.
As allowed by the updated Combined Code, Sir John appointment to the board on 29 February 2008 previously chaired by Egan was appointed to the committee on 3 November 2006.
The Chief John Smith until his retirement.
Its membership comprises Bernard Executive also attends Remuneration Committee meetings at the Bulkin and Richard Davey.
Only independent non-executive directors invitation of the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
The committee may serve on the committee.
Sheila Noakes has been identified by the will normally meet at least four times a year.
board as having recent and relevant financial experience.
The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the board, the The committee meets with the groups external auditors at least four Severn Trent policy on the remuneration of executive directors and the times a year.
By invitation of the committee other individuals such as Chairman of the board, and is consulted by the Chief Executive the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, General Counsel and regarding remuneration for the groups senior executive managers.
Company Secretary and Director of Internal Audit will normally be in Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee attendance for all or part of those meetings.
The committee and the is given in the directors remuneration report on pages 38 to 47.
Auditors also hold separate meetings without the attendance of executive management.
The directors remuneration report also describes how the principles of the Combined Code are applied in respect of remuneration matters and In their assessment of the independence of the auditors, the committee includes a statement on the companys policy on directors and senior receives annually in writing details of relationships between the auditors executive managers remuneration, benefits, share scheme entitlements and the group, which may bear on the auditors independence and and pension arrangements.
receives confirmation that they are independent of the group as required by International Auditing Standard 260.
A resolution to approve the directors remuneration report will be proposed at the AGM.
The committee annually approves the level of the auditors fees in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the group and its subsidiaries at the same time as considering the adequacy of the auditors proposed audit plan.
34 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Governance 24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 35 Nominations Committee Shareholders The Nominations Committee is chaired by Sir John Egan and its Relations with shareholders members are the Chief Executive and all non-executive directors.
A The board recognises the importance of representing and promoting minimum of two independent non-executive directors attend each the interests of its shareholders and that it is accountable to meeting, but all non-executive directors will attend meetings subject to shareholders for the performance and activities of the company.
Other executive directors, senior management and The annual report and accounts is the principal means of external advisers may be invited to attend meetings as considered communicating with shareholders.
To coincide with the appropriate.
The Nominations Committee has responsibility for e-communications mailing to shareholders in April 2008, which considering the size, structure and composition of the board of the allowed shareholders to decide whether they wished to receive company, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement information from the company via the website or by post, the directors, succession planning and making recommendations so as to companys website www.
com, was redesigned and maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the board.
The relaunched website is now easier to The committee meets at least three times a year.
navigate and use and contains an archive of annual reports together The board appointments made during the year in respect of with other information relevant to investors.
This includes Baroness Noakes and Martin Lamb were undertaken using an comprehensive share price information, financial results and financial external search consultancy.
Further shareholder information can be found on pages 107 to 108, after the notes to the financial statements.
Other Committees Corporate Responsibility Committee The board encourages shareholders to attend the companys AGM and The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by Bernard Bulkin exercise their right to vote.
The notice of meeting and related papers and its members are Sir John Egan and Tony Wray.
Other executive are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
directors and senior management involved with managing businesses Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
or formulating policies within the group are regularly invited to attend For the 2008 AGM a poll will be taken on each resolution.
The committees main responsibility is to develop, present at the meeting will be able to register one vote per share held review and promote policies to further the groups environmental values using an electronic voting system.
Results of the poll on each resolution, in its business, workplace and community engagement activities.
The including details of the votes for and against registered prior to and at committees terms of reference may be viewed on the companys the meeting, proxy votes and the number of abstentions will be website www.
Details of the groups corporate displayed at the meeting.
responsibility activities may be found on pages 20 to 21.
Past AGMs have been well attended and, as part of the boards ongoing Executive Committee commitment to the provisions of the Combined Code, shareholders are The Executive Committee, chaired by Tony Wray, oversees the given the opportunity to meet with the board before the AGM.
management of the group and is the decision making body for those Presentations are made on the groups activities and performance prior matters not specifically reserved to the board.
It operates within the to the formal business of the meeting.
Shareholders have the limits set out in the Group Authorisation Arrangements policy and opportunity to ask questions of the board and present their views.
The the committees terms of reference.
chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, together with all other directors will normally attend the AGM.
The Following a review during the financial year the Executive Committee exhibition area planned for the 2008 AGM will include informative, as adopted a new structure and now meets four times each month, well as some interactive, stands based around a selection of the focusing on a particular area at each meeting.
The main areas of focus company KPIs and operational areas of the business.
are strategy, business and financial planning, operational performance and detailed reviews of operational and key central functions.
The The company announces its results on a half yearly basis and complies Executive Committee also agrees and reviews matters to be submitted with its requirement to make interim management statements.
Presentations are made to analysts and shareholders following the release of the interim and year end results.
The Chief Executive and Details of the membership of the Executive Committee are set out on Finance Director meet shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and, page 27. if appropriate, the senior independent non-executive director are available to meet shareholders if required.
The board receives written feedback following meetings with institutional shareholders.
Major shareholders are also able to meet with new non-executive directors if required.
Severn Trent 35 24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 36 Corporate governance report continued During the course of the year, a new Risk and Compliance team has Internal control taken steps to enhance the existing risk management process, to Internal control and risk management improve consistency in assessment and reporting and create greater The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal transparency around the risk of non-compliance.
Graphics that set out control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
the groups risk profile and any significant changes to this between The board reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control, reporting periods have been designed to aid debate by the Executive including financial, operational, compliance and risk management, at Committee and Audit Committee twice a year.
In addition, we have least annually in accordance with the requirements of the Combined embarked upon a programme of work designed to better align risk Code and the guidance set out within it.
The system of internal control outputs with other activities including Performance Monitoring, is reviewed for effectiveness and adequacy.
Business Planning, Performance Management, Insurance, Business Resilience and Internal Audit.
The internal control system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is Principal risks designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Our risk management process has identified the following risk factors business objectives.
that could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, operations and reputation, as well as the value and liquidity The board reviews risk management and the effectiveness of the system of our securities.
Not all of these factors are within our control and, in of internal control through the Audit Committee.
The board also keeps addition, other factors besides those listed below may have an adverse under review ways in which to enhance the control and audit effect on the group.
Where the need for control improvement has been arrangements in the group.
The Audit Committee receives reports every identified, necessary action plans have been put in place.
six months from the Chief Executive on the significant risks faced by the group, an assessment of the effectiveness of controls over each of those Changes in law or regulation in the countries and types of business risks and an action plan to improve controls where this has been in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business assessed as necessary.
Any significant control weaknesses that have and operations.
been identified as requiring remedy are also reported to the Audit Regulatory decisions in relation to our businesses, e. g. on the structure Committee.
The auditors also report on significant control issues to this of the water industry worldwide, on whether licences or approvals to committee.
The Internal Audit department provides objective assurance operate are renewed, whether market developments have been and advice on risk management and control.
satisfactorily implemented, on the level of permitted revenues for our businesses, whether there has been any breach of the terms of a licence The board confirms that procedures providing an ongoing process for approval or other obligation, could have an adverse impact on the identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the results of our operations, cash flows, financial condition of our group have been in place for the year to 31 March 2008 and up to the businesses and the ability to develop those businesses in the future.
date of the approval of the Annual Report.
The results of our operations depend on a number of factors relating Key elements of the groups processes and procedures are: to business performance, including the ability to outperform clearly defined and communicated strategic and business regulatory targets and deliver anticipated cost and efficiency savings.
objectives: Earnings from our businesses will be affected by our ability to meet or an organisation structure with clear lines of accountability and better our regulatory targets set by Ofwat, the Environment Agency, responsibility: Drinking Water Inspectorate and other regulators.
To meet these targets, performance management and succession planning systems: we must continue to improve management systems, processes and regular, structured reviews of business risk by senior management operational performance.
In addition, earnings from our regulated and the Executive Committee, including a self assessment of control business also depend on meeting service quality standards set by effectiveness: regulators.
To meet these standards we must improve service reliability a scheme of delegated authority: approval of plans, budgets and and customer service.
Increased anticipated earnings from our non significant investments: regulated businesses will be affected by our ability to deliver the growth robust business planning including the identification and strategy for these businesses.
If we do not meet these targets and implementation of relevant improvement plans: standards, both our results and our reputation may be adversely monthly reporting and monitoring of financial results, regulatory affected and penalties could be imposed.
compliance and other operational performance indicators: and independent assurance provided by both internal and external auditors.
36 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Governance 24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 37 Various government environmental protection and health and safety External factors could affect the groups pension schemes and laws and regulations govern our businesses.
adversely impact on our financial position.
These laws and regulations establish, amongst other things, standards Pension assets and liabilities pre-tax of 1,332.3 million and for drinking water and discharges into the environment which affect our 1,458.3 million are held in the groups balance sheet as at 31 March operations.
In addition, our businesses are required to obtain various 2008.
Movements in equity markets, interest rates and life expectancy environmental permissions from regulatory agencies for their operation.
could materially affect the level of surpluses and deficits in the schemes Environmental laws and regulations are complex and change frequently.
and could prompt the need for the group to make additional pension These laws and their enforcement have tended to become more contributions in the future.
The key assumptions used to value our stringent over time, both in relation to their requirements and in the pension liabilities are set out in note 29 on pages 85 to 87. levels of proof required to demonstrate compliance.
While we believe we External financial market factors could adversely impact on our have taken account of the future capital and operating expenditure financial position.
necessary to achieve and maintain compliance with current and The groups financial position and business results could be adversely foreseeable changes in laws and regulations, it is possible that new or affected if its existing funding arrangements are materially altered.
stricter standards could be imposed or current interpretation of existing legislation amended, which will increase our businesses operating costs The main risks faced by the group in its treasury operations relate to or capital expenditure by requiring changes and modifications to their external conditions in the banking and capital markets or in the credit operations in order to comply with any new environmental or health rating of the water industry as a whole.
These factors could result in us and safety laws and regulations.
not being able to service our existing debt, refinance our loans as they fall due, raise new money to finance our activities in the future, and The failure of our assets or our inability to carry out critical enter into derivative contracts to manage our financial risks.
operations could have a significant impact on our financial position and our reputation.
In addition, we could face materially higher interest rates and suffer We may suffer a major failure in any of our assets which could arise a financial loss.
from a failure to deliver the capital investment programme for our businesses or to maintain the health of our systems.
Any failure could cause us to be in breach of a licence or approval and even incidents that do not amount to a breach could result in adverse regulatory action and financial consequences, as well as harming our reputation.
Some of our businesses control and operate water and sewerage networks and undertake maintenance of the associated assets with the objective of providing a continuous service.
The failure of a key asset could cause a significant interruption to the supply of services, which may have an adverse effect on our operating results or financial position.
In addition water supplies may, inter alia, be subject to contamination from the development of naturally occurring compounds and pollution from man made sources and these may have an adverse effect on our operating results or financial position.
We could also be held liable for human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage.
In addition, we are subject to other risks which are largely outside our control, such as energy costs, the impact of climate change, weather or unlawful acts of third parties, including terrorist attacks, sabotage or other international acts which may also physically damage our business or otherwise significantly affect corporate activities and, as a consequence, affect the results of our operations or our financial position.
