corporate governance Combined Code The Group is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance and integrity and exemplary ethical standards in all its business dealings.
This statement, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 39, explains how the Group has applied the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council and updated subsequently in 2006.
The Board considers that it has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code in all material respects throughout the year.
The Board of Directors The Board currently comprises the Chairman, a further three independent Non-executive Directors, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for running the Board and the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the operations of the Group and for the development of strategic plans and initiatives for consideration by the Board.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of experience to the Group and are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
During the year, until his retirement in July 2007, Mr P Delaunois was not deemed to be independent in accordance with the criteria set out in the Combined Code owing to his receiving fees for providing consultancy advice to the Groups Belgian subsidiaries in addition to the fees received for acting as a Director.
The Non-executive Directors make a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board, thereby ensuring that no one individual or group dominates the decision making process.
Nonexecutive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share option or pension schemes.
The Chairman also meets as necessary with the other Non-executive Directors without the executives present.
The Combined Code also recommends that the Board appoints one of its independent Non-executive Directors to be the Senior Independent Director.
This Director is available to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
During the year this role was fulfilled by Mr B Pointon until his retirement in July 2007 and thereafter by Mr E van Amerongen.
The Board meets regularly, having met nine times during the year.
In addition, separate strategic discussions take place.
Several meetings are held at subsidiary company sites in the UK and overseas where local operations are reviewed.
In line with the requirement of sound corporate governance, there is a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically for the Boards decision.
These include approval of financial statements, strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, capital projects over defined limits, annual plans and new borrowing facilities.
The Board operates under agreed terms of reference, which together with those of its Committees are documented formally and updated as necessary.
The Board is provided with appropriate information in a timely manner to enable it to effectively discharge its duties.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary whose role includes ensuring that Board procedures and regulations are followed.
In addition, Directors are entitled, if necessary, to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors during the year was undertaken through the mechanism of formalised self assessment questionnaires.
Key results, all of which were positive and constructive, continue to be acted on by the Chairman and the Board.
The performance evaluation of the Chairman was undertaken by the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and all Non-executive Directors are appointed initially for a three year term.
Any new Director appointed to the Board will be subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
It has been agreed that any Non-executive Directors who have served for a period greater than nine years from initial appointment will submit themselves for annual re-election.
annual report 2008 On appointment, Directors are given an introduction to the Groups operations, including visits to principal sites and meetings with operational management.
Specific training requirements of Directors are met either directly or by the Company through legal regulatory updates.
Board succession planning is kept under review by the Nomination Committee.
The table below details the number of formal Board and Committee meetings held in the year and the attendance of each Director.
In addition, the Board held a two day strategy meeting with senior management attending for part of the time.
There was also regular communication between the Non-executive Directors without the presence of the Executive Directors.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Group Board Committee Committee Committee A Auer 9 9 n a 4 4 2 2 M Averill retired 30 September 2007 5 5 n a n a n a P Delaunois retired 26 July 2007 3 4 1 1 2 2 2 2 T Drury appointed 1 October 2007 4 4 n a n a n a P Johnson 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 B Pointon retired 26 July 2007 4 4 1 1 2 2 2 2 S Riley 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 E van Amerongen 7 9 3 3 3 4 1 2 F Welham 9 9 n a n a n a Figures in brackets indicate maximum number of meetings during the period in which each individual was a Board Committee member.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which met three times in the year, is formally constituted with written terms of reference which are available on the Groups website.
The Committee is comprised solely of Non-executive Directors: Mr P Johnson, Dr S Riley and Mr E van Amerongen.
Mr P Johnson, who continues to have current and relevant financial experience under Combined Code requirements, chaired the Committee throughout the year.
During the year both Mr P Delaunois and Mr B Pointon also served on the Committee until their retirement in July 2007.
The external auditors, the Chairman and the Executive Directors are regularly invited to attend meetings and the Committee has access to the external auditors advice without the presence of the Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has the authority to examine any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Group.
This includes the appointment, terms of engagement, objectivity and independence of the external auditors, the nature and scope of the audit, reviews of the interim and annual financial statements, internal control procedures, accounting policies, adherence with accounting standards and such other related functions as the Board may require.
The Committee also considers and reviews other risk management and control documentation, including the Groups policy on whistleblowing and security reporting procedures.
The policy on engagement of the external auditors for non-audit services is that, where the work is closely related to the audit, or if the work requires a detailed understanding of the Group, or when a significant benefit can be obtained from work previously conducted, the work may be awarded to the auditors without compromising their independence and objectivity.
During the year the performance of the external auditors was formally reviewed.
A resolution proposing the re-appointment of  LLP as Group auditors will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
annual report 2008 31 corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, which met four times in the year, is formally constituted with written terms of reference which are available on the Groups website.
The Committee is comprised solely of Non-executive Directors: Mr E van Amerongen, Mr A Auer, Mr P Johnson and Dr S Riley and has been chaired since July 2007 by Mr E van Amerongen.
During the year Mr P Delaunois served on and Mr B Pointon chaired the Committee until their retirement in July 2007.
The Committee determines the Companys policy on remuneration and on a specific package for each of the Executive Directors.
It also determines the terms on which the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the Save As You Earn SAYE share options are awarded to employees.
The Committee also determines the remuneration of the Groups senior management and that of the Chairman.
It recommends the remuneration of the Nonexecutive Directors for determination by the Board.
In exercising its responsibilities the Committee has access to professional advice, both internally and externally, and may consult the Group Chief Executive about its proposals.
The Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 39 contains particulars of Directors remuneration and interests in the Companys shares.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr A Auer and is comprised solely of Non-executive Directors: Mr E van Amerongen, Mr P Johnson and Dr S Riley.
The Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference which are available on the Groups website.
It met twice during the year and is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and succession planning.
During the year, the structure, composition and balance of skills of the Board were reviewed including ensuring that all members of the Board had devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board.
During the year the Committee implemented succession planning in respect of Mr M Averills retirement in September 2007 and the appointment of Mr T Drury as successor to the position of Group Chief Executive.
All appointments were made using the services of an external executive search consultant.
Pensions The assets of both the final salary and money purchase schemes in the UK are held separately from those of the Group.
These are invested by independent professional investment managers and cannot be invested directly in the Company.
There are two member nominated trustees and three trustees appointed by the Company.
Senior employees in Belgium are provided with defined contribution pension benefits.
In the Netherlands, employees participate in compulsory collective transport industry wide pension schemes, or equivalent schemes, which provide benefits up to a certain level of pay.
Senior employees in the Netherlands earning in excess of the maximum level of pay allowed for within the compulsory pension schemes also participate in a defined contribution arrangement for the excess amount.
Investor Relations The Company has an active investor relations programme, with designated members of the Board regularly meeting institutional investors, analysts, press and other parties.
The Board obtains feedback from its broker, Hoare Govett on the views of institutional shareholders and the Chairman attends meetings with major shareholders whose views are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Group also communicates with private and institutional investors through its AGM.
co. uk provides additional information for shareholders and the general public.
Risk Management The Board confirms that processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the material risks faced by the Group have been in place for the financial year 2008 and to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
These include a formal review by each business unit to identify and evaluate material strategic, operational, commercial and financial risks affecting the achievement of their objectives.
This review also identifies key procedures and controls used to mitigate the risks to an acceptable level and, where appropriate, actions required to further manage and reduce them.
In addition the Executive Directors consider those risks to the Groups strategic objectives that may not be identified and managed at the business unit level.
The risk summaries developed out of this process are discussed with both the Board and the Audit Committee in accordance with Turnbull Guidance.
Risk management also forms part of major decision-making processes such as acquisitions or major contract tenders.
It is also embedded in the day to day management of operations including health, safety and environmental compliance aspects.
annual report 2008 Internal Control The Directors are responsible for and have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control during the period covered by the annual report and accounts.
The system is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material avoidable loss or misstatement of financial information.
The key features of the control system are as follows: i monthly visits by Executive Directors to key operating locations to attend local board or management meetings: ii regular Executive Committee meetings of the Groups most senior managers and Executive Directors: iii formal written financial policies and procedures applicable to all business units: iv comprehensive annual budgets, requiring Board and business unit approval, reviewed on a regular basis, with performance measured against budgets and explanations sought for significant variances: v a formal clearly defined framework for control and approval of capital expenditure and investment programmes, with cash authorisation limits and post investment appraisals along with contract authorisation levels: vi identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to each area of business assessed on a continuing basis at both operating Board and Group Board level: vii appointment of experienced and professional staff of the necessary calibre to meet their responsibilities: viii annual peer reviews where the adequacy of the procedures and controls in each business units operations are reviewed by senior staff from elsewhere in the Group with the aid of extensive checklists.
Summaries of findings from these reviews and the status on follow-up actions are discussed by the Group Board: ix a programme of internal site audits performed by senior finance staff.
A selection of these audits is performed by individuals from other business units or, where language is an issue, by a local firm of external auditors.
Findings from these audits are discussed at the monthly business unit Board meetings.
Summaries of audit findings and the status of follow-up actions are discussed at the Group Board and Audit Committee meetings on a regular basis: x a range of quality assurance and environmental management systems are used at the Groups sites.
Where appropriate these are independently certified to internationally recognised standards including ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, and as such are subject to regular external audits: xi an Environmental Advisory Board which during the year provided an independent assessment of the Groups health, safety and environmental performance: and xii an Audit Committee comprising Non-executive Directors, the responsibilities of which are set out on page 31.
To strengthen the controls provided by the above the Audit Committee recommended and the Board agreed to the establishment of an independent internal audit function in February 2008.
A Group Risk Management and Internal Audit Manager has been recruited to head up this function.
He will join the Group in June 2008. shanks.
