7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 43 43 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Nomination Committee report The members of the Nomination Committee as at December 31, 2008 were Mr David Kappler Chairman, Mr Matthew Emmens, Dr Barry Price and Dr Jeffrey Leiden.
Dr James Cavanaugh was Chairman of the Committee until his retirement from the Board and the Nomination Committee on June 18, 2008.
Mr Matthew Emmens became a member of the Committee on June 18, 2008.
A majority of the Nomination Committee has been determined by Shires Board to be Independent Non-Executive Directors for the purposes of the Combined Code.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for the Board.
The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee require it, before any appointment is made, to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in light of this evaluation, to identify the capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Committee utilises, as it considers necessary, the services of professional search agencies specializing in the recruitment of high calibre candidates.
The Nomination Committee is required to consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, on merit and against objective criteria.
It is also required to ensure that candidates have sufficient time to devote to the position.
The Nomination Committee also has regard to succession planning for the Board and oversees succession planning for senior management.
During 2008, the Nomination Committee made recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Independent Non-Executive Director, Dr Michael Rosenblatt and Chief Financial Officer, Mr Graham Hetherington.
As detailed in the Companys 2007 Annual Report on June 18, 2008 Dr James Cavanaugh the Companys Non-Executive Chairman retired and was succeeded by Mr Matthew Emmens.
Also on June 18, 2008 Mr David Kappler became Deputy Chairman and Mr Angus Russell succeeded Mr Emmens as Chief Executive Officer.
Mr Robin Buchanan stepped down from the Board on July 29, 2008.
New Non-Executive Directors receive a customized induction program taking account of their particular experience and backgrounds.
This program includes meetings with senior management.
The Nomination Committee met four times during 2008.
Mr Kappler, Dr Leiden and Dr Price attended all meetings and the Mr Emmens attended all meetings held since his appointment to the Nomination Committee.
Dr Cavanaugh attended all meetings prior to his retirement form the Nomination Committee.
At the invitation of the Nomination Committee, Mr Angus Russell attended all meetings since becoming Chief Executive Officer.
Mr David Kappler Chairman of the Nomination Committee
