REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS CORPORATE GOvERNANCE SIG is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment the Group supports .
  published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code are applied within SIG.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE , throughouttheyear,  set out therein with the exception of Code provision A3.2 in relation to the required number of Non-Executive Directors where the Company was not in compliance .
TheCompanysAuditors, DeloitteLLP,  Combined Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
TheChairman, atthetimeofhis appointment, met and continues to meet the independence criteria set out in the Code.
All Directors are subject to election at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their appointment and to re-election every three years.
: : : : : :and corporate governance matters and approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
Forexample, duringtheyear,  documentation, dividend payments and the preliminary and interim announcements.
Further, on resignation, if a Non-Executive Director had any such concerns, the Chairman would invite him to provide a written statement for circulation to theBoard.
 an ongoing basis as required.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE CONTINuEd ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS , Audit,  31December2008: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee 13meetings 4meetings 6meetings 3meetings P. H. Blackburn 13 4 6 3 M. J. C. Borlenghi 13 4 6 3 M. J. Chivers 11 N A N A N A C. J. Davies  13 N A N A N A G. W. Davies 13 N A N A N A D. A. Haxby 12 4 6 3 L. O. Tench 13 N A N A 3 D. Williams retired30June2008 8 N A N A 1 Chairman.
The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS ,  to assess its performance and that of its three principal Committees.
In2008, , , , , includingBoard composition and succession planning.
Each Director completed their Questionnaire and these were then evaluated by the independent third party who then prepared .
 evaluation of its performance was a worthwhile exercise and that the Directors had participated in an open and frank basis.
The evaluation process will continue to be carried out on an annual basis.
During the year a number of the Directors attended training courses and seminars on subjects and topics in conjunction with those that the Chairman had identified .
The Non-Executive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent Director, meet once a year without the Chairman present to assess his performance, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its Shareholders, including its employee Shareholders, to ensure that its strategy and performance isunderstood.
 the Chairman and the Finance Director and discussed at its meetings.
Formal presentations are made to institutional Shareholders following the announcement .
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet with institutional Shareholders if requested.
Although the Non-Executive Directors are not at present asked , .
 the principal forum for dialogue with private Shareholders and all Shareholders are invited to attend.
All Directors attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer any questions that Shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is sent to Shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company provides a facility for Shareholders to vote electronically and the Form of Proxy provides Shareholders with the option of withholding their vote on a resolution if they so wish.
Shareholders vote on a show of hands, unless a poll is validly called and after each such vote the number of proxy votes received for, against the resolution together with the number of abstentions is announced.
The Company Secretary ensures that votes are properly received and recorded.
Details of the Proxies lodged on all  www.
48 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee operates under written Terms of Reference which are consistent with current best practice.
The Committee comprises only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that .
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Nominations Committee operates under written Terms of Reference, which are consistent with current best practice.
Its principal duty is the nomination of .
, Chief Executive and the three Non-Executive Directors.
The meetings of the Committee are chaired by the Non-Executive Chairman.
, size,  at the conclusion of their specified term of office and in the identification and nomination of new Directors.
The Committee retains external search and selection .
,  work with an appropriate external search and selection agency to identify candidates of the appropriate calibre and with whom an initial candidate shortlist would be agreed.
The drawing up of this list is entirely consistent between external and internal candidates.
Shortlisted candidates would then be invited to interview with , ,  appointment.
This process was followed in identifying the candidate to succeed Mr. D. Williams as Chief Executive.
Following the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company is given.
D.  by the Chairman and has been described above.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee operates under written Terms of Reference, which are consistent with current best practice.
The Chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on .
  audit function and Ernst & Young LLP were appointed in April 2006 to provide an outsourced internal audit function for the Group.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL .
 on risk and control through the design and operation of appropriate internal control systems.
,  that it is in a position to consider all significant aspects of internal control.
, compliance and risk management procedures, as well as financial.
The review is undertaken on a twice-yearly basis.
: operating management is charged with the ongoing responsibility for identifying risks facing each of the operating units and for putting in place procedures to mitigate, : operating units formally review all business risks and set out the significant risks to the operations, the controls in place and additional controls which could be implemented.
: SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE CONTINuEd RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL CONTINUED :and operating units, both trading sites and central functions, complete comprehensive Control Self Assessment CSA Questionnaires every six months.
These Questionnaires require managers to respond to questions about procedures and controls in the unit for which they have responsibility.
These are analysed by local and Group management and all potential risks or control failure issues which are raised by the CSA process are classed in terms of escalation levels with any significant Group level issues being reported to the Audit Committee.
Ernst & Young LLP, as part of the process of their providing an outsourced internal audit function, report on the administration, management and reporting processes which support the CSA process.
The CSA process has been rolled out across the UK, Ireland and The Netherlands and commenced across the rest of the Group in 2008.
: , : an embedded culture of openness of communication between operating divisional management and the Group Executive Management on matters relating to risk andcontrol: : :and .
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
,  is an acceptable level of risk throughout the business.
, ,  for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
RIChARd mONRO COmPANY SECRETARY 18 mARCh 2009 50 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
