Corporate governance The board remains committed to maintaining high standards of corporate directors remuneration, relations with, and accountability to, shareholders, governance throughout the group, which it believes are vital to its business and the audit of the Company.
integrity and successful long-term performance.
The board recognises that The board believes that any system which is adopted must also reflect corporate governance is not an end in itself but an important means to necessary standards of governance for Associated British Foods plc and its an end.
corporate social responsibilities and believes that the systems in place meet The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require UK listed those requirements.
companies to report on the manner in which they apply the Combined Statement of compliance Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
The board The board considers that the Company has complied fully with the recognises that the Combined Code represents best practice and this provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year, report, together with the Remuneration report, sets out how the Company with the following exceptions set out in the table below: applies the principles of this Combined Code which deal with directors, Combined Code Provisions Status Explanation B.
2.1 The Chairman should not Martin Adamson is both Chairman The board of Associated British Foods plc does not accept this chair the Remuneration committee and chair of the Remuneration recommendation as it considers that Martin Adamson, due to his committee.
experience, is best suited to chair this committee.
The Combined Code now recognises that the Chairman can be a member of the Remuneration committee.
No director has any involvement in the determination of his own remuneration.
4.4 The terms and conditions of This is due to his relationship with the Companys ultimate holding Galen Weston has not entered into appointment of non-executive a formal letter of appointment.
company, Wittington Investments Limited, of which he is a director and directors should be made available shareholder.
Galen Weston receives no fees for performing his role as a for inspection non-executive director and Associated British Foods plc does not reimburse him for any expenses incurred by him in that role.
In accordance with the Combined Code, he is subject to annual re-election.
The board considers that the non-executive directors provide a solid The board of directors Role and responsibilities foundation for good corporate governance for the group and ensure that no individual or group dominates the boards decision-making.
All members of the board take collective responsibility for the business and management of the Company.
The board met formally nine times during Details of the full board are set out on pages 18 and 19. the year.
The individual attendance by directors is detailed on page 23.
Chairman and Chief Executive There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the board for decision, The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and which includes the approval of: the division of their responsibilities is clearly established, set out in writing, annual and interim results and interim management statements: and agreed by the board.
The Chairman, Martin Adamson, is responsible for the running and leadership of the board.
The Chief Executive, George the Companys strategic and operating plans: Weston, is responsible for leading and managing the business within the annual budget: authorities delegated by the board.
appointments to the board and as company secretary: Senior independent director Tim Clarke is the recognised senior independent director.
treasury policies: Re-election dividend policy: Under the Articles, all directors seek election at their first annual general amendments to the Companys pension scheme: meeting and one third of the directors must retire by rotation each year, subject to the requirement that each director seeks re-election every three larger capital expenditure, acquisitions, disposals and investment years.
Furthermore, in accordance with the Combined Code, each nonproposals: and executive director who has served for more than nine years is required to the overall system of internal control and risk management.
Accordingly, in addition to Charles Sinclair who is seeking election, Galen Weston, Martin Adamson, John Bason and George Certain specific responsibilities are delegated to the board committees, Weston will be required to seek re-election at the forthcoming annual notably the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees, which operate general meeting.
within clearly defined terms of reference, reporting regularly to the board.
Induction and continuing professional development Composition On joining the board, directors are given background documents describing The board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman Martin the Company and its activities and are provided with an appropriate Adamson, the Chief Executive George Weston, the Finance Director induction programme.
The Company offers major shareholders the John Bason and five non-executive directors who are independent of opportunity to meet new non-executive directors.
Site visits were arranged management and have no relationships which would materially interfere during the year for the newly appointed independent non-executive with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The board also directors to meet the senior management teams at major business units.
includes Galen Weston, a non-executive director, who is not regarded as Ongoing training is provided as necessary.
independent in view of his relationship with Wittington Investments Ltd. 22 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our business in action Financial statements Information flow Directors are generally provided with the papers for board and committee Board and committee papers are circulated to members in advance of meetings a week in advance.
This enables any director who is unable to the meetings.
In addition to formal meetings, the Chairman and Chief attend to provide comments to the Chairman, the chairman of the relevant Executive maintain regular contact with all directors.
The Chairman also committee or the Company Secretary, who will then relay these comments holds informal meetings with non-executive directors, without any of the to the relevant meeting.
executives being present, to discuss any issues affecting the group.
Board committees To keep the non-executive directors informed of events throughout the Membership of the three key committees was refreshed in January 2008. group between board meetings, regular management updates are sent Current membership of each committee is detailed below.
This seeks to ensure that the non-executive directors Nomination committee are always kept fully informed of the latest issues affecting the group.
Current members: Martin Adamson, Tim Clarke, Javier Ferrn, Lord Jay, Location of board meetings Charles Sinclair, Peter Smith.
Board meetings occasionally take place at the offices of the groups Chairman: Martin Adamson.
This further enables non-executive directors to develop their knowledge of the group and to consult with management and other Further details of the Nomination committee can be found on page 24. employees.
Non-executive directors may also make additional visits to Audit committee our overseas businesses through the year.
Current members: Tim Clarke, Lord Jay, Charles Sinclair, Peter Smith.
Senior executives below board level are invited, when appropriate, to attend Chairman: Peter Smith.
board meetings and to make presentations on the results and strategies of Further details of the Audit committee can be found on page 25. their business units.
Remuneration committee Independent professional advice Current members: Martin Adamson, Tim Clarke, Javier Ferrn, Lord Jay, The board has adopted a procedure whereby directors may, in pursuit Charles Sinclair, Peter Smith.
of their duties and where they judge it necessary, take independent professional advice on any matter at the Companys expense.
Company Secretary Details of the Remuneration committee and its policies can be found on Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company pages 30 to 33.
Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures The terms of reference of the Nomination committee, the Audit committee are followed.
and the Remuneration committee are available on request and from Attendance at meetings www.
co. uk The attendance by individual directors at board and committee meetings during the year ended 13 September 2008 was as follows: Nomination Audit Remuneration Full board committee committee committee meeting Directors Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Martin Adamson 4 4 3 3 9 9 George Weston 9 9 John Bason 9 9 Lord MacGregor 1 1 1 1 1 3 3 Mike Alexander 1 1 1 1 1 3 3 Tim Clarke 4 4 3 3 2 2 9 9 Lord Jay 4 4 3 3 2 2 9 9 Javier Ferrn 4 4 3 3 9 8 Peter Smith 4 4 3 3 3 3 9 9 Galen Weston 9 3 1 Lord MacGregor and Mike Alexander retired as directors on 7 December 2007.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 Corporate governance continued Board evaluation Procedures to deal with directors conflicts of interest In the final financial quarter the senior independent director led the The Company has procedures in place to deal with the situation where annual process which enabled the board to evaluate the effectiveness of a director has a conflict of interest.
As part of the new company law regime its performance.
This involved an individual discussion between Tim Clarke introduced by the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, these procedures and each director based upon designated areas and topics.
All input was have been revised and the Company will be seeking shareholder approval treated as strictly confidential and was not attributed to any individual to amend its Articles of Association to include provisions for dealing with board member.
The results of this exercise were subsequently reviewed directors conflicts of interest.
As part of this process, the members of the by the board.
The performance of the Chairman was also appraised at a board will endeavour to: meeting of the non-executive directors chaired by the senior independent consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: director and taking into account the views of the executive directors.
consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of his duties The process in 2008 confirmed that all directors continued to contribute under the 2006 Act: effectively and with proper commitment, including of time, to their roles.
keep records and board minutes as to authorisations granted by directors Relations with shareholders and the scope of any approvals given: and The Company is committed to increasing shareholder value, and regularly review conflict authorisation.
communicates its achievements and prospects to its shareholders in an accurate and timely manner.
Apart from the annual general meeting, Report of the Nomination committee the Company communicates with its shareholders by way of the annual Composition of the Nomination committee report and accounts and the half-yearly report.
Significant matters relating The members of the Nomination committee who held office during the to the trading or development of the business are disseminated to the year and at the date of this report are: market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
The Company also Martin Adamson Chairman holds meetings with its major institutional shareholders to discuss the Tim Clarke Companys operations.
Javier Ferrn The senior independent director is available to shareholders in the Lord Jay event that communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Lord MacGregor until December 2007 Finance Director has failed to resolve concerns or where such contact Charles Sinclair from November 2008 is inappropriate.
Peter Smith from January 2008 The annual general meeting takes place in London.
Formal notification is Executive directors may be invited to attend as appropriate.
sent to shareholders approximately one month in advance and in any event The Nomination committee leads the process for board appointments at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The annual general meeting making recommendations to the board.
gives shareholders an opportunity to hear about the general development of the business and to ask questions of the Chairman and, through him, the The Chairman does not chair the Nomination committee when it is chairmen of the key committees and other directors.
The practice has been dealing with the appointment of his successor.
In these circumstances the for a short film to be shown at the meeting explaining a particular area of committee is chaired by a non-executive director elected by the remaining the groups business.
The committee met four times during the year.
Accountability and audit Duties The board is required by the Combined Code to present a balanced and The Nomination committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
for the approval of the board, candidates to fill board vacancies as and In relation to this requirement, reference is made to the statement of when they arise.
Before an appointment is made, the committee evaluates directors responsibilities for preparing the financial statements set out the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board and, in the on page 34 of this annual report and accounts.
light of this evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The independent auditors report on page 35 includes a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The board recognises that Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are considered.
The its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment Nomination committee normally uses external advisors to facilitate extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports, reports to searches for potential candidates.
regulators, and information required to be presented by law.
The time required from a non-executive director is reviewed annually.
Going concern The annual board evaluation is used to assess whether the non-executive After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation director is spending sufficient time to fulfil his duties.
that the group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the The Nomination committee gives full consideration to succession foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going planning in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges concern basis for preparing the financial statements on pages 48 to 107 and opportunities facing the Company and what skills and expertise are of this annual report and accounts.
therefore needed on the board and from senior management in the future.
24 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our business in action Financial statements The Nomination committee reviews the structure, size and composition Membership of the Audit committee is determined by the board, on the including the skills, knowledge and experience of the board and, if recommendation of the Nomination committee and in consultation with appropriate, makes recommendations for changes to the board.
In this the committee chairman, from amongst the independent, non-executive respect, the committee has regard to the results of the annual board directors of the Company.
Its terms of reference are set by the board and evaluation.
The committee keeps under review the leadership needs of are modelled closely on the provisions of the Combined Code.
the organisation, both executive and non-executive, with a view to Appointments are for a period of three years after which they are subject ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete efficiently to annual review, extendable by additional three-year periods so long as in the marketplace.
The committee makes recommendations regarding members continue to be independent.
The Audit committee is comprised the membership of the Audit committee in consultation with the Audit of a minimum of three independent non-executive directors at any time committee chairman.
and currently comprises four members.
Activities The Audit committee structure requires the inclusion of one financially The Nomination committee makes recommendations to the board qualified member as recognised by the Consultative Committee of on succession for executive directors, the re-appointment of any nonAccountancy Bodies.
Currently the committee chairman fulfils this executive directors at the conclusion of their specified term of office, requirement.
All committee members are expected to be financially literate.
any matter relating to the continuation in office of any director at any The board expects Audit committee members to have an understanding time and the appointment of any director to executive or other office.
of the following areas: External recruitment consultants Odgers Ray & Berndtson, the global executive search firm, conducted a thorough search and identified a the principles of, and developments in, financial reporting including the applicable accounting standards and statements of number of high quality candidates in connection with the most recent non-executive director appointment.
recommended practice: The Nomination committee recommended the appointment of key aspects of the Companys operations including corporate policies and the groups internal control environment: Charles Sinclair to the board and he became a non-executive director on 1 October 2008. matters which may influence the presentation of accounts and key figures: Corporate website the principles of, and developments in, company law, sector-specific laws The terms of reference of the Nomination committee, which set out and other relevant corporate legislation: its role and the authority delegated to it by the board, are available for the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: and inspection at the Companys registered office and can be viewed on the Companys website.
the regulatory framework for the groups businesses.
The formal letters of appointment of non-executive directors are also Meetings available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The Audit committee meets at least three times each year and has an agenda linked to events in the groups financial calendar.
The committee Report of the Audit committee invites the Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Director of Summary of the role of the Audit committee Financial Control and senior representatives of the external auditors to The Audit committee is responsible for maintaining an appropriate attend all of its meetings in full, although it reserves the right to request relationship with the groups external auditors and for reviewing the any of these individuals to withdraw.
Other senior managers are invited Companys internal audit resources, internal financial controls and the to present such reports as are required for the committee to discharge audit process.
It aids the board in seeking to ensure that the financial and its duties.
non-financial information supplied to shareholders presents a balanced assessment of the Companys position.
Overview of the actions taken by the Audit committee to discharge its duties The Audit committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the Audit committee receives and external auditors and also considers the scope of their work and fees paid reviews presentations and reports from the groups senior management, for audit and non-audit services.
consulting as necessary with the external auditors.
The Audit committee has unrestricted access to Company documents and During the year, the Audit committee formally reviewed draft half-yearly and information, as well as to employees of the Company and the external annual reports and associated announcements.
Members of the committee may, in pursuit of their duties, take independent professional advice on any matter at the Companys expense.
the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the groups The committee chairman reports the outcome of meetings to the board.
financial statements and proposed changes to them: Composition of the Audit committee significant accounting issues and areas of judgement and complexity: The members of the Audit committee who held office during the year and litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the group: and at the date of this report are: potential tax contingencies and the groups compliance with statutory Peter Smith Chairman tax obligations.
Mike Alexander until December 2007 Tim Clarke Lord Jay Lord MacGregor until December 2007 Charles Sinclair from November 2008 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 Corporate governance continued The Audit committee is required to assist the board to fulfil its The Audit committee has recommended to the board that the external responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control auditors are re-appointed.
environment and the groups compliance with the Combined Code.
To fulfil Internal audit function these duties, the committee reviewed: The Audit committee is required to assist the board to fulfil its the external auditors management letters and audit highlights responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans memoranda: of internal audit.
To fulfil these duties, the committee reviewed: internal audit reports on key audit areas and significant deficiencies in the internal audits terms of reference, reporting lines and access to the financial control environment: committee and all members of the board: reports on the systems of internal financial controls and risk internal audits plans and its achievement of the planned activity: management: and the results of key audits and other significant findings, the adequacy reports on frauds perpetrated against the group.
of managements response and the timeliness of resolution: The Audit committee is responsible for the development, implementation statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and experience and timeliness and monitoring of policies and procedures on the use of the auditor for of reporting: non-audit services in accordance with professional and regulatory the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by internal audit: and requirements.
These policies are kept under review to meet the objective the changes since the last annual assessment in the nature and extent of ensuring that the group benefits in a cost-effective manner from the cumulative knowledge and experience of its auditor whilst also ensuring of significant risks and the groups ability to respond to changes in its business and the external environment.
that the auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
Consequently, any non-audit work to be undertaken by The groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for the Company the auditor in excess of 300,000 is required to be authorised by the Secretary to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, Chairman of the Audit committee and the Group Finance Director prior internal controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to the to commencement.
Individual assignments less than 300,000 are Audit committee as appropriate.
approved by the Group Finance Director.
The groups anti-fraud policy has been communicated to all employees and The Audit committee has formally reviewed the independence of its states that all employees have a responsibility for fraud prevention and auditors.
KPMG Audit Plc have provided a letter confirming that they detection.
Any suspicion of fraud should be reported immediately and will believe they remain independent within the meaning of the regulations be investigated vigorously.
on this matter and their professional standards.
The Audit committee holds private meetings with the external auditors To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external after each committee meeting, and with the Director of Financial Control auditors, the Audit committee reviewed: as appropriate but at least annually, to review key issues within their changes in external audit executives in the audit plan for the current year: spheres of interest and responsibility.
a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements to The chairman of the Audit committee will be present at the annual general meeting to answer questions on this report, matters within the scope of identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and the committees responsibilities and any significant matters brought to the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
the committees attention by the external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the committee The full terms of reference of the Audit committee are available on the reviewed: Companys website: www.
co. uk the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and variations Internal control from it: and The board acknowledges its responsibilities for the groups system of reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the course of internal control to facilitate the identification, assessment and management the audit.
of risk, the protection of shareholders investments and the groups assets.
The directors recognise that they are responsible for providing a return to To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, the shareholders, which is consistent with the responsible assessment and Audit committee reviewed: mitigation of risks.
the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of the Effective controls ensure that the group is not exposed to avoidable risk, audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter for the that proper accounting records have been maintained and that the forthcoming year: financial information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year: The dynamics of the group and the environment within which it operates are continually evolving together with its exposure to risk.
The system the external auditors fee proposal: is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of assets being the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and unprotected and to guard against their unauthorised use and the failure to their resolution: achieve business objectives.
Internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
key accounting and audit judgements: the levels of errors identified during the audit: and recommendations made by the external auditors in their management letters and the adequacy of managements response.
26 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our business in action Financial statements The directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, 1.
Food safety evaluating and managing the risks faced by the group and the operational The group derives over 55% of its turnover from the production and sale of effectiveness of the related controls, which has been in place for the year food and has a positive role to play in contributing to the quality of peoples under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and lives by providing wholesome and nutritious foods, food ingredients and accounts.
They also confirm that they have regularly reviewed the system animal feedstuffs.
Sugar, tea, flour, bread, cereals, meat and dairy products of internal controls utilising the review process set out below.
are part of peoples daily lives all over the world and the group plays an important part in making sure these are produced efficiently and to a Standards high quality.
There are guidelines on the minimum groupwide requirements for health and safety and environmental standards.
There are also guidelines on the To manage food safety risks, sites operate food safety systems which are minimum level of internal control that each of the divisions should exercise regularly reviewed to ensure they remain effective, including compliance over specified processes.
Each business has developed and documented with all regulatory requirements for hygiene and food safety.
Food products policies and procedures to comply with the minimum control standards are made to high standards regardless of where they are manufactured.
established, including procedures for monitoring compliance and taking Food safety is always put before economic considerations.
The board of each business is required to confirm 2.
Supply chain labour standards bi-annually that it has complied with these policies and procedures.
Those businesses with global supply chains are at greater risk of controversy High level controls relating to breaches, by suppliers, of the International Labour Organisation All operations prepare annual operating plans and budgets which are core labour standards.
Since the group uses extensive global supply chains, updated regularly.
Performance against budget is monitored at operational it takes all reasonable steps to mitigate the risk of damage to its reputation level and centrally, with variances being reported promptly.
The cash in the case of any breaches by striving to ensure that it does not buy from position at group and operational level is monitored constantly and factories with poor working conditions.
Examples of such steps include: variances from expected levels are investigated thoroughly.
Primark has been working within its supply chains for several years prior Clearly defined guidelines have been established for capital expenditure to making its commitment public by joining the Ethical Trading Initiative and investment decisions.
These include the preparation of budgets, ETI www.
org in May 2006. appraisal and review procedures and delegated authority levels.
Primark defined its Ethical Trade Strategy in 2006 and in 2008 entered Internal audit the second phase of its implementation which will ensure that factories The groups businesses employ internal auditors both employees and making 80% of all purchases are assessed.
resources provided by Ernst & Young where appropriate with skills and Audits are conducted by Primarks own regionally-based Ethical Managers experience relevant to the operation of each business.
All of the internal and third-party specialist auditors.
38% of its initial audits to date have audit activities are co-ordinated centrally by the groups Director of been unannounced and the rest take place within a pre-agreed window.
Financial Control, who is accountable to the Audit committee.
Over 135,000 workers employed in suppliers factories have had their All group businesses are required to comply with the groups financial control working conditions assessed, and improved where necessary.
framework that sets out minimum control standards.
A key function of the After the initial audit, Primarks Ethical Managers work with suppliers to groups internal audit resources is to undertake audits to ensure compliance support them through remediation.
Training is offered to suppliers and with the financial control framework and make recommendations for their garment makers on particular issues and best practice, at regular improvement in controls where appropriate.
Internal audit also conducts intervals.
Follow-up audits are conducted after three months from the regular reviews to ensure that risk management procedures and controls are initial audit.
Over the last year Primark achieved a 75% improvement adhered to.
The Audit committee receives regular reports on the results of rate on the first re-inspection.
internal audits work and monitors the status of recommendations arising.
The committee reviews annually the adequacy, qualifications and experience Primark has to report on its activity annually to the ETI and has had of the groups internal audit resources and the nature and scope of internal encouraging feedback on its latest annual report.
audit activity in the overall context of the groups risk management system Many of Primarks suppliers also manufacture for its competitors.
The Director of Financial Control meets with the chairman of working in these factories are paid the same weekly wage irrespective of the committee as appropriate but at least annually, without the presence of the customer on whose behalf they are working.
executive management, and has direct access to the Chairman of the board.
All new suppliers are risk assessed prior to the supplying of their initial Risk management review orders to Primark.
The groups risk management process seeks to enable the early identification, Primark recognises that shared learning and collaboration is one of the evaluation and effective management of the key risks facing the businesses at operational level and to operate internal controls, which adequately mitigate most successful ways to achieve sustained positive progression with its suppliers factories.
Primark participates in the ETI Supported National these risks.
The key risks and internal control procedures are reviewed by group personnel together with internal audit activities.
Each business is Homeworkers Group in India and is one of the founder members of the Wages Group.
responsible for regularly assessing its risk management activities to ensure good practice in all areas.
Compliance with group requirements is monitored AB Agri is involved in WildCare, a wildlife habitat scheme for dairy six monthly, and these assessments are formally reviewed by group personnel farms supplying Waitroses Select Farm milk.
Working with Dairy Crest, at least annually.
The Audit committee receives reports on internal financial the Wildlife Trusts and the Waitrose Select Farm milk pool, the scheme control issues from management and from the external auditors and regularly encourages farmers to develop and protect habitat suitable for wildlife.
reports to the board for the purposes of the boards annual review.
AB Agri employs auditors to carry out annual audits to monitor the The principal corporate risks as identified by each business and noted by the species found on participating farms, paying particular attention to those highlighted in the relevant county Biodiversity Action Plans.
board are currently: These specialist auditors then develop action plans to help farmers improve habitats.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27 Corporate governance continued Twinings is a member of the Ethical Tea Partnership which requires Manufacturing operations in the UK participate in the UK Governments its suppliers and subcontractors to meet the International Labour Climate Change Agreement Scheme in which energy intensive businesses Organisation core labour standards, respecting an observance of human receive an 80% discount from the Climate Change Levy in return for rights and fundamental freedoms without discrimination as to race, sex, meeting energy efficiency or carbon saving targets.
The sugar sites in the language or religion.
UK and Poland participate in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
These schemes allow the sites to reduce energy consumption and therefore Illovo, British Sugar and Allied Bakeries operate a comprehensive set of reduce emissions of carbon dioxide cost-effectively.
policies and standards to cover all aspects of their operations, including supply chain labour standards.
Performance is measured on a regular basis In addition to the consumption of energy the group generates surplus by means of self-assessments and audits by independent consultants.
electricity from highly efficient Combined Heat and Power CHP schemes and sells this electricity to other companies.
All UK CHP schemes Many businesses within the group do not rely upon third parties to source participate in the UK Governments CHP quality assurance scheme and their products.
However, those that do have ethical sourcing policies in line qualify for a full exemption from the UKs Climate Change Levy.
with the groups Corporate Citizenship principles and the requirements of their customers.
Carbon dioxide is emitted both directly from the combustion of fossil fuels at the groups sites to create steam, heat and electricity, and indirectly by 3.
Competition rules the power stations from which the group buys its electricity.
The use of The penalties for failing to comply with the 1998 Competition Act, bagasse sugar cane fibre, which is a renewable resource and hence carbon the 2003 Enterprise Act, relevant EU law and all relevant competition neutral as a fuel in the cane factories eliminates the need to use coal and legislation are recognised as risks to be managed.
Clear policy direction, other fossil fuels to provide energy to our boilers.
which includes compulsory awareness training and close support from the in-house legal department, has reduced the likelihood of the group Other significant environmental risks include handling and disposal of breaching these regulations.
waste and the treatment of waste water.
The principal legal risk is regulatory action against the group for non-compliance with licence conditions and 4.
All the groups businesses have named accountable The group recognises the impact that its businesses have on the senior executives and responsible managers and the management of the environment.
Therefore, as a minimum, it aims to comply with current physical and legal risks, for which they employ specialists, is included in their applicable legislation of the countries in which it operates and its operations annual objectives.
are conducted with a view to ensuring that: The group employs Environmental Resources Management Limited ERM emissions to air, releases to water and land filling of solid wastes do to continue its rolling programme of audits of the management of not cause unacceptable environmental impacts and do not offend environmental risks at a representative range of group companies.
The sites the community: audited are selected on the basis of materiality with regard to the range of significant plant and process changes are assessed and positively issues as well as the contribution to the health, safety and environment authorised in advance to prevent adverse environmental impacts: performance of the group as a whole.
ERM also carry out a sample data verification process on the groups data to check completeness and accuracy.
energy is used efficiently and consumption is monitored: Each year the board reviews the verified results and provides strategic natural resources are used efficiently: direction.
Businesses are required to develop action plans as appropriate and progress is monitored by the group health and safety manager.
raw material waste is minimised: The group publishes details of its environmental performance in a separate solid waste is reduced, reused or recycled where practicable: report on its website: www.
co. uk csr the amount of packaging used for group products is minimised, 5.
Health and safety consistent with requirements for food safety and product protection: The group is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace in line products are transported efficiently to minimise fuel usage, consistent with local regulations to protect all employees, visitors and the public with customers demands, production arrangements and vehicle insofar as they come into contact with foreseeable work hazards.
The group fleet operations: considers health and safety as equal in importance to that of any other of its functions and its business objectives.
It requires its businesses to build accidents are prevented so far as is reasonably practical: and a culture of sustained improvement.
effective emergency response procedures are in place to minimise the Peoples health and safety at work is a prime responsibility for all those who impact of foreseeable incidents.
All employees and those working on behalf of the Particular attention is given to recently acquired businesses to ensure group have a responsibility for the health and safety of themselves and that they operate in accordance with the standards expected.
others who may be affected by their actions.
The group ensures that they are well informed, appropriately trained and are consulted on matters The principal environmental risk is the use of energy and the resultant affecting their health and safety.
emissions of carbon dioxide, a gas involved in climate change.
The efficient use of energy is a major element of our environmental policy.
Indeed, all The principal health and safety risks relate to the potential for serious sites which are subject to the EUs Pollution Prevention and Control regime injuries, fatal accidents and regulatory action for non-compliance with are also under a statutory requirement to minimise energy consumption statutory requirements.
by use of best available techniques.
28 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our business in action Financial statements As with environmental risks, all the groups businesses have named 10.
Regulatory and political environment accountable senior executives who employ specialists to manage these risks, The group is subject to a wide variety of regulations in the different and the management of these risks forms part of their annual objectives.
countries in which it operates because of the diverse nature of its businesses.
It may also be affected by political developments in the The group employs ERM to audit a representative sample of its operations countries in which it operates.
It considers these uncertainties in the to understand how companies manage their risks and to verify the data.
external environment when developing strategy and reviewing Businesses are required to develop action plans as appropriate and progress performance, remaining vigilant to future changes.
The group engages is monitored by the group health and safety manager.
with governmental and non-governmental organisations to ensure the The group publishes details of its safety performance in a separate report views of its stakeholders are represented and tries to anticipate and on its website: www.
co. uk csr contribute to important changes in public policy wherever it operates.
People The groups performance targets require it to have the right calibre of people at all levels.
It must compete to obtain capable recruits for the businesses, and then train them in the skills and competencies that are needed to deliver profitable growth.
At a time of substantial change in the businesses, there is a particular focus on creating alignment and energetic leadership.
Financial and commodity risks Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of board-approved policies and guidelines to manage the groups financial and commodity risks.
Financial risks essentially arise through exposure to foreign currencies, interest rates, counterparty credit and borrowing facilities.
Commodity risks arise from the procurement of raw materials and the exposure to changes in market prices.
Liquidity risk arises from the availability of internal and external funding to enable the group to meet its financial obligations as and when they fall due.
Details of the groups accounting and risk management policies with respect to financial instruments and the associated quantitative and qualitative disclosures are set out in note 25 on page 84.
Taxation risks Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the position taken is sustainable.
Management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
The group operates internationally and is subject to tax in many different jurisdictions.
As a consequence, the group is routinely subject to tax audit and local enquiries which, by their very nature, can take a considerable period to conclude.
Provision is made for known issues based on managements interpretation of country specific tax law and the likely outcome.
Loss of a major site The group operates from many key sites the loss of which, for example as a result of fire, would present significant operational difficulties.
Our operations have business continuity plans in place to manage the impact of such an event and group insurance programmes to mitigate the financial consequences.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29
