ACCOUNTABILITY, AUDITAND INTERNALCONTROL FRAMEWORK Risk Management and Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems which have been in place for 2008 and to the date of approval of the report and accounts involve: the identification, evaluation and management of key risks through a Risk Committee, which reports to the Board annually: and business reviews by the Board of each of the business units.
There is a Group Finance Manual which includes financial control standards which are adhered to by the businessess and the Internal Audit function and the external auditors report to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of these controls.
The Audit Committee also reviews reports on compliance with accounting standards: appropriate accounting policies and practises and any changes to these: accounting and reporting issues: going concern assumptions: and anti fraud programmes and controls.
It also reviews the risk management process.
These systems are reviewed annually by the Board.
Whilst not providing absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, these systems are designed to identify and manage those risksthat couldadversely .
Risk Committee The Risk Committee is comprised of the executive directors and the executive officers  by the Chief Executive.
As an integral part of planning and review, management at each of the business units identify the risks involved in their business, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
Areas of potential major impact are reported to  its meetings, .
The annual Group Risk Report of the Risk Committee to the Board details all principal risks categorised by potential financial impact on profit and share price.
The most significant Group risks are reported to the Board quarterly, and will include new key or significantly increased risks along with actions put in place to mitigate such risks.
In 2008 the effectiveness of the business units systems to identify and manage material risk were evaluated and thefindingsreported totheAuditCommittee.
Managements Report on Internal Control overFinancial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined inRule13a-15 f and15d-15 f  of1934.
Because of inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or .
In accordance with the requirement in the US under s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act management assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2008.
In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded and hereby reports that, as at 31 December 2008, the Groups internal control over financial reporting iseffective based onthosecriteria.
Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the Groups  of31December2008.
There has been no change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting during the period covered by this Annual Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal .
DisclosuresCommittee and Evaluation of  Procedures The Disclosures Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Director of Corporate Affairs.
The secretary is the Company Secretary.
The Committee meets as required and approves the release of all major communications to investors, to the UK Listing Authority and the London .
58 The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controlsand procedures as at 31 December 2008.
Based upon, andas ofthedate of, that evaluation, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures wereeffective.
Code of Conduct and BusinessPrinciples The Code of Business Principles, which includes the Groups whistleblowing policy is available at www.
com sustainability2008 and is available on request, apply to all directors, officers and employees.
Any breaches of the Code are reported to the Company Secretary who is obliged to raise the issue with the Chief Executive or Chairman and the Audit Committee.
During 2008 and up until 11 March 2009 no  made totheCode.
In 2008, the Ethics and Compliance Committee approved a Code of Conduct and Business Principles and was issued to the majority of employees in January 2009.
The Code sets out the basic legal and ethical principles for carrying out business and applies both to employees and those who act on the Companys behalf.
The first part sets out in detail how persons covered by the Code are expected to ethically interact with healthcare professionals and government officials.
The second part which is to be issued later in 2009 will cover the broader issues of ethics and compliance throughout the business and will include an updated version of the .
com The new Code of Conduct and Business Principles includes a revised whistle blowing policy which now enables persons in the majority of jurisdictions where the Company operates to contact the Company anonymously through an independent provider, Silent Whistle.
This procedure has been in place in the US throughout2008.
Code of Ethics for SeniorFinancial Officers The Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, which is available at www.
com sustainability2008 and is available on request.
It applies to the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and the Groups senior financial officers.
There have been no waivers to any of the Codes provisionsnorany amendments made to the Code during2008 or up until11March 2009.
Activitiesof the Audit Committee for 2008 TheAuditCommittees remit, whichisset outinits terms ofreference, : monitoring the integrity of the Groups accounts, ensuring that they meet statutory and associated legal and  containedinthem: :  : recommending for shareholder approval, the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, as appropriate:   auditors:   oftheauditprocess:  : monitoring the effectiveness of internal financial controls and reviewing compliance with s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: :and reviewing arrangements by which staff may raise complaints against the Group regarding financial reporting orothermatters.
: the conduct of non-audit work by the external auditors whichprohibits the auditors from performing services which would result in the auditing of their own work, participating in activities normally undertaken by management, acting as advocate for the Group and creating a mutuality of interest between the auditors 59 Corporate Governance and the Group, for example being remunerated through a success fee structure.
Each year, the Audit Committee pre-approves the budget for fees relating to audit and non-audit work, including taxation services, in accordance with a listing of particular services.
In the event that limits for these services are expected to be exceeded or the Group wants the external auditors to perform services that have not been pre-approved, approval by the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required, together with a notification to the Audit Committee of the service and the fees involved.
All services provided by the independent auditors  bytheAuditCommittee:and audit partner rotation, which is in accordance with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standards in the UK and the SEC rules in the US.
Partners and senior audit staff may not be recruited by the Group unless two years hasexpired .
The Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and other members of management and the Board attend the meetings when necessary and the external auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee meets without management in attendance, when appropriate, and meets with the auditors, without managementpresent, fromtimetotime.
 : ,  andtheannualaccounts:  oftheSarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: consideration of compliance with accounting standards, appropriate accounting policies and practices,  : , its processes, : a review of the Internal Review departments activities for the year, together with its resource requirements andfindings: : a review of the reports from the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, on their professional and regulatory compliance , : areviewoftheaudit, audit-related, tax andotherservices providedbyErnst &YoungLLP: review and the pre-approval of all services provided by the auditors during the year including all non-audit work performed by the auditors together with associated fees, to ensure that the objectivity and independence of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Group was not compromised.
Ernst & Young LLP only  ofaccountingandtax related matters: consideration of Ernst & Young LLPs in-depth reports to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit and managements response.
Their reports included accounting matters, governance and : a review of the effectiveness of the performance of Ernst & Young LLP effected by the completion of a   oftheCommittee:  &YoungLLPas theGroupsauditors: confirmation that no concerns were raised with the Committee about possible improprieties in matters of : reviewing the Committees terms of reference to ensure they reflect developments in corporate governance intheUK andtheUS: :and an evaluation of its own performance during the year, effected by means of a questionnaire and individual discussions.
The Committee may obtain legal and other independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, as it deems necessary.
In 2008 other fees related to aborted acquisition costs.
In 2007, other fees related to the acquisition costs for Plus.
Disclosureof Information to the Auditors In accordance with s234ZA of the Companies Act, the directors serving at the time of approving the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, are unaware and the directors also confirm that they have taken reasonable steps to be aware of any relevant audit information and, accordingly, to establish that the auditors are aware of such information.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors and resolutions proposing their reappointment and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration, which have been approved by the Audit Committee, willbe proposedat theAGM.
