Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the to retire at the forthcoming Annual principles contained in the Combined General Meeting AGM.
The Board Code on Corporate Governance that was recommends the reappointment of the issued in 2006 by the Financial Reporting other retiring Directors, each having Council the Combined Code or the Code offered themselves for reappointment.
for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Group has applied Independence and Refreshing the principles set out in Section 1 of of the Board the Code, as described below and, in The Board embraces the underlying connection with Directors remuneration, principles of Code provisions regarding in the Directors Remuneration Report.
tenure and refreshing of the Board, and seeks to strike an appropriate balance Statement of Compliance with the between continuity of experience and Combined Code succession.
The Board recognises that Throughout the year ended 31 December an individuals independence cannot be 2008, the Company has complied with determined arbitrarily on the basis of a set the provisions set out in Section 1 of the period of time.
The Company manages Combined Code.
a portfolio of long term, complex projects and benefits from long serving Directors Board Composition and with detailed knowledge of the Reappointment Companys operations and with the The Board of Directors, whose names proven commitment, experience and and biographical details are set out on competence to effectively advise and pages 32 to 33, comprises nine Directors oversee the Companys management in addition to the Chairman.
After an on behalf of shareholders.
The Company assessment process set out in more does not impose fixed term limits as this detail below, five of these nine, including would assure a loss of experience and the Senior Independent Director, have knowledge without assurance of been identified in the Directors Report increased independence.
Accordingly, on page 35 as independent in character the Boards assessment of independence and judgement giving full consideration to is of prime importance to ensure that those circumstances that the Code states retention of experience does not result in may appear relevant.
Notwithstanding a failure to retain a sufficient contingent of this, the Board is satisfied that each of the independent Directors.
Companys Directors strictly abides by their legal and ethical duties owed to the The independence of each Non-Executive Company to act objectively and in the Director is assessed at least annually.
best interests of the Company and its To be identified as independent a Director shareholders as a whole.
must be determined independent in character and judgement and free from Directors are subject to reappointment any relationships or circumstances which at least every three years.
Reappointment are likely to affect, or could appear to is recommended in consideration of affect, their judgement including in the results of individual evaluation and particular those set out in the Code.
demonstrated continued satisfactory Particular scrutiny is applied in assessing performance, commitment and the continued independence of Directors effectiveness.
Consideration is given to having served over nine years, with the broad capabilities represented on the attention to ensuring their allegiance Board and the ability of these to meet the remains clearly aligned with shareholders.
unique challenges facing the Company.
Board refreshment and tenure are Consideration is additionally given to considered together, and weighed the balance of the Boards composition for relevant benefit in the foreseeable and the need for refreshment.
A Noncircumstances, given further that the Executive Director term exceeding six Board should not be enlarged to a size years is subject to particularly rigorous that is unwieldy.
review, and a term exceeding nine years is subject to annual reappointment.
The In conducting its current assessment the process for considering reappointments Board referred to guidance setting out is described more fully in the Nominations criteria deemed relevant to determining Committee report.
whether a Director continues to exhibit those qualities and behaviours it considers As stated in the Directors Report, essential to be considered independent.
Mr John Snyder has taken the decision A specific set of focused criteria was 38 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financials Financials Governance Financials with a larger, more complex development applied to the assessment of long tenured phase over the next several years.
Consideration was also given assessment of the competencies required to the results of individual evaluation and on the Board, the current Non-Executive continued satisfactory performance.
Directors continue to comprise an appropriate balance of skills and Following assessment, Mr Martin Roberts experience.
Additionally, they have was determined to be independent.
acquired, over a number of years, a sound Mr Robert Cathery was determined to and detailed knowledge of the Companys be independent despite having formerly business and are uniquely qualified to been a director of a former Company contribute to the Companys leadership.
The relationships ceased more Accordingly, a succession that allows than three years ago and are not relevant for some refreshment while maximising to the determination of independence continuity of experience is considered under the Code.
Any outside links to other to be in the best interest of shareholders.
Directors are not considered significant and in particular do not result in reciprocal As set out in more detail in the influence.
Accordingly, the review of Nominations Committee report, the Committee memberships described Company has initiated a process to below in the Succession section of this identify independent Non-Executive report will include a review of Mr Director candidates who can add value Catherys potential role as an independent to the Board through complementary committee member.
It is intended that a successful candidate will replace the After particular scrutiny, Mr Peter Kingston, Director retiring at the 2009 AGM.
An Mr John Norton, Mr John Snyder and additional suitable candidate, if identified, Mr Olivier Barbaroux, each having served will be added to the Board.
Board roles, on the Board for more than nine years, including Committee memberships were determined to be independent.
Each of these Directors continues to express and Chairmanships, are additionally their individual viewpoints, debate issues under review as part of this process.
and objectively scrutinise and challenge New Directors will be placed before management.
Each seeks clarification shareholders for election at the first and amplification as deemed required, AGM following their appointment.
including through direct access to the Groups employees and external advisors.
Board Structure and Process After careful consideration of the relevant The Board typically has four scheduled factors, the Board has determined that the meetings a year and holds additional tenure of these Directors has not affected meetings as necessary.
During 2008, their independence or their ability to bring the Board held five scheduled meetings judgement to bear in the discharge of their as deemed required for the effective duties as Board and Committee members.
discharge of its duties during the period.
Attendance of Directors at scheduled The Board considers that the varied and Board meetings and attendance of relevant experience of these independent members at the Audit, Remuneration and Directors combines to provide an Nominations Committees is set out in the exceptional balance of skills and table on page 40.
The Board determines experience required for the business.
the Companys business strategy and provides the entrepreneurial leadership Succession required to ensure its strategic aims can Due to the nature of its business, the be achieved.
The Board operates within a Companys expectation of a Nonformal framework of decision making Executive Directors most appropriate designed to reserve matters of term of office is generally longer than establishing the strategy, business plan that envisioned in Code guidelines.
and nature or scope of the Companys The Company undertakes projects business to the Board.
Under this requiring long term cycles from licence framework, authority for implementing the negotiation to first production and benefits strategy and decisions taken by the Board from continuity of experience throughout is largely delegated to the Executive the process.
Its Vietnam programme is Directors and management within a of major significance to the Company.
system of internal controls designed to As reported in the 2007 Annual Report, enable the risks of the Group to be the Company planned for a phased managed effectively.
Additionally, the succession to allow for both refreshment Board has established clear expectations and a rebalance of the skills required for the Companys economic, social and on the Board as it enters the production environmental conduct to promote the phase in Vietnam.
The project reached highest level of integrity and honesty in this milestone in mid-2008, but continues meeting its obligations to its stakeholders.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 39 an appropriate business plan and for qualifications and experience.
The Corporate Governance executing actions approved by the Board Secretary provides advice and service as continued in accordance with relevant authorities.
may be required in the ongoing discharge The Non-Executive Directors contribute to of the Directors duties, including ensuring the development of strategic proposals that the Company provides the necessary through constructive probing based on resources for access to independent SOCOs Board membership comprises review and analysis that brings to bear advice and individual professional a broad range of skills, knowledge the unique skills and knowledge each development needs.
Additionally, briefing and experience, which is critical to the brings to the Board.
sessions are provided in the course success of the Company.
The Board of regular Board meetings and functions as a unitary body, within which The Executive Directors provide the Committee meetings on relevant issues Directors assume certain roles to ensure leadership of the senior managers in the as deemed appropriate.
the Board as a whole fulfils its day-to-day running of the Groups responsibilities.
These roles, including business and manage the Groups risk Directors have power to authorise, where Committee memberships, are designed programmes including the environmental, appropriate, a situation where a Director to maximise the effective contribution of health and safety performance of the has, or can have, a direct or indirect each of the Non-Executive Directors to business.
They must ensure the interest that conflicts, or possibly may the Board, its Committees and to the Company has adequate financial and conflict, with the Companys interests.
Executive Directors, while ensuring an human resources to meet its objectives.
Such authority is in accordance with appropriate balance is maintained.
They are responsible for reporting the Section 175 of the 2006 Companies Act The composition of the Board and its performance and strategic direction of the 2006 Act which took effect from committees is in accordance with Code the Group to the Board and for providing 1 October 2008.
No Director serves on more accurate, timely and clear information the Board reviewed the potential for than two committees.
At least annually, to enable the Board to take sound any conflicts of interests.
This included the Non-Executive Directors meet decisions.
The Non-Executive Directors the briefing of all Directors on the without the Executives present and, review managements performance provisions of Section 175 of the 2006 led by the Senior Independent Director, and ensure that the systems in place Act by the Companys lawyers.
There meet without the Chairman present.
provide adequate and effective financial, are procedures for ensuring that the Such meetings are conducted in the spirit operational and compliance controls and Boards powers of authorisation are of good governance and process, and risk management.
They must be satisfied operated effectively.
Directors are are intended to ensure a forum for open that they have sufficient information required to notify the Company of any dialogue without disruption of Board unity.
for the discharge of their duties, which conflicts of interest or potential conflicts may be achieved through dialogue with of interest that may arise, before they The Chairman and the Chief Executive management, training where appropriate arise either in relation to the Director collectively are responsible for the to update their knowledge or skills concerned or his connected persons.
The leadership of the Company.
The Chairmans and consultation with independent decision to authorise each situation is primary responsibility is for leading the professional advisors as required.
considered separately on its particular Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
Only Directors who have no interest The Chief Executive is responsible for The Company Secretary, who is in the matter are able to take the relevant leading the executives and ensuring appointed by the Board, is responsible decision, and must act in a way they their effectiveness in the running of the for facilitating the communications and consider, in good faith, will be most likely Companys business.
Their division of processes of the Board, both within to promote the Companys success.
responsibilities is set by the Board.
Together the Board and its committees and with The Directors will impose such limits they are responsible for promoting the management, in compliance with Board or conditions as they deem appropriate highest standards of integrity and probity.
when giving authorisation or when an The Secretary facilitates an induction actual conflict arises.
These may include Executive Directors are responsible programme on appointment that is provisions relating to confidential for implementing the Boards agreed tailored to a new Directors individual information, attendance at Board strategy through the development of Attendance of Directors and Committee Members Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings R fide Sousa P Kingston O Barbaroux R Cagle R Cathery E Contini J Norton M Roberts J Snyder E Story 40 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financials Financials Governance Financials review.
Accordingly, it is the Committees meetings and availability of Board papers, Audit Committee meets at least three policy to review all proposed non-audit along with other measures as determined times a year.
The Chief Financial Officer services on a case by case basis, rather appropriate.
The Board reviews its conflict and a representative of the external than by reference to preallowed or authorisations at least annually.
auditors are normally invited to attend disallowed services, and regardless meetings.
Other Directors are invited to of size or scope.
The Committee approved attend as determined appropriate or Committees the non-audit services provided by the beneficial.
At least once a year the The Board has established three external auditors in 2008, having Committee meets with the external Committees, as described below, each concluded such services were compatible auditors without executive Board having formal terms of reference TOR with auditor independence and were members present.
The Committees approved by the Board which set out its consistent with relevant ethical guidance.
primary responsibilities include reviewing delegated role and authority.
The TORs, Details of these services are set out in the effectiveness of the Companys and which are available for inspection, are set the Groups systems of internal control, Note 9 to the financial statements.
The in consideration of the provisions of the overseeing the selection of and Board concurred with the Committees Combined Code and are reviewed from relationship with external auditors and recommendation for the reappointment time to time in the context of evolving the review and monitoring of the integrity of Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditors guidance.
Each Directors specific of financial statements.
Committee memberships, including as is responsible for review of the Groups Chairmen, are set out on pages 32 and major financial, operational and corporate The Committee has reviewed, and 33.
Whilst only Committee members responsibility risk management is satisfied with, the Companys are entitled to attend meetings, other processes.
The effectiveness of these arrangements whereby staff may raise Directors are invited to attend from processes is monitored on a continuous concerns regarding improprieties in time to time to ensure the Committees basis and a formal assessment is confidence, which would be addressed responsibilities are undertaken with conducted at least annually.
The with appropriate follow-up action.
access to the Boards full breadth Committee has been delegated the On behalf of the Board, the Committee of knowledge and experience.
The responsibility for advising the full Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Company Secretary ensures that the on compliance with the Combined Code, Companys internal controls and risk Company additionally provides such including its internal control requirements, management systems, including resources as the Committees require as well as compliance with evolving consideration of an internal audit function, in the discharge of their duties.
guidance on corporate governance which is more fully described in the issues generally.
Internal Control section of this report.
The Remuneration Committee The Committee has reviewed and The Remuneration Committee is chaired approved the related compliance The Committee held three meetings in by Mr Peter Kingston, the Senior statements set out therein.
The 2008 and has conducted one meeting Independent Non-Executive Director, and Committee has additionally reviewed to date in 2009, all of which were additionally comprises Mr Olivier and approved the statements regarding attended by executive management and Barbaroux and Mr Martin Roberts, both compliance with the Combined Code.
A private session, of whom are independent Non-Executive without executives present, was held Directors.
The names and qualifications of The Committee reviewed and discussed during two of these meetings.
Additionally, each of the members are set out on pages with management and the auditors the a number of other informal meetings and 32 and 33.
The Committee is responsible Companys relevant financial information communications took place between the for recommending for approval by the full prior to recommendation for Board Chairman, various Committee members, Board the remuneration of the Chairman, approval.
This included in particular the external auditors and the Companys the Executive Directors and the Company financial statements and other material executives and employees.
During 2008, the Committee information presented in the annual and Committee reviewed and approved conducted a review of its TOR and of the interim reports.
The Committee considered the terms and scope of the audit effectiveness of its own performance.
the significant financial reporting issues, engagement, the audit plan and the Details of the Committees policies and accounting policies and judgements results of the audit with the external objectives are set out in the Directors impacting the financial statements, and auditors, including the scope of services Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 50. the clarity of disclosures.
The Committee associated with audit related regulatory conducted a review of its TOR and of the reporting services.
An assessment of The Audit Committee Report effectiveness of its own performance.
the effectiveness of the audit process The Audit Committee is chaired by was made, giving consideration to reports Mr Peter Kingston, the Senior from the auditors on their internal quality The Nominations Committee Report Independent Non-Executive Director, and procedures.
Additionally, auditor The Nominations Committee is chaired additionally comprises Mr John Norton independence and objectivity was by Mr Rui fide Sousa, the Non-Executive and Mr Martin Roberts, both of whom assessed, giving consideration to Chairman of the Company.
It additionally are independent Non-Executive Directors.
the auditors confirmation that their comprises Mr Ed Story, the Chief The names and qualifications of each of independence is not impaired.
Executive Officer, and Mr Olivier the members are set out on pages 32 and Barbaroux, Mr John Norton and 33.
The Board is satisfied that the The Remuneration Committee, with Mr John Snyder, who are independent collective experience of the members approval of the Audit Committee, has Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee includes relevant and recent financial independently appointed the Companys meets at least once a year.
Its primary experience and provides the complement auditors as advisors.
The advisors terms responsibilities include making of skills required for the Committee to of reference restrict the provision of certain recommendations to the Board regarding discharge its functions effectively.
In services in order to maintain auditor the appointment and reappointment of particular, Mr Norton is a Chartered independence and the scope and value of Directors and Committee memberships.
Accountant and former member of the services to the Group is under continuous It is responsible for review and Oil Industry Accounting Committee.
The Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 41 estimated time commitment and the clear days prior to the meeting, and Corporate Governance capabilities which would complement the resolutions are proposed for each continued composition of the Board and its substantially separate issue.
The Committee would proxy voting is announced after votes are expect to utilise an independent external taken on a show of hands.
Directors are advisor to facilitate any search.
A diverse available to answer shareholder questions recommendations regarding overall list of candidates is compiled and a and, in particular, the Chairmen of the Board structure and composition, rigorous review process undertaken, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations succession planning and establishing an involving other Board members as Committees are in attendance to respond ongoing process for evaluating the Board deemed appropriate.
Committee to any specific queries.
recommendations are submitted for full Board approval.
The Company Secretary The Company has assigned a senior The Committee held two meetings in facilitates induction upon appointment.
executive the responsibility for investor 2008 and has conducted one meeting The Committee is currently conducting relations and has employed an outside to date in 2009.
Other Non-Executive a search utilising this process to identify a agency, both to provide assistance Directors were in attendance at a portion successful candidate to replace Mr John in the dissemination of information to of these meetings by invitation.
An additional suitable candidate, shareholders and the general public Committee functions were delegated to if identified, will be added to the Board.
and to actively solicit feedback as to a Sub-Committee, which acted on behalf the effectiveness of such efforts.
of the Committee after an appropriate The Committee led the Board in Additionally, the Company maintains an dialogue among Committee members evaluating its own performance and that ongoing, active dialogue with institutional to ensure a consensus of views.
of its Committees and individual Directors.
shareholders, specifically and proactively Additionally, a number of other informal The Company Secretary facilitated seeking opportunities for face-to-face meetings and communications took compilation of the results.
The Senior meetings at least twice a year, coincident place between the Chairman, various Independent Director facilitated relevant with half year and full year results, Committee members and the Companys discussions regarding the role of the between fund managers and Company executives and employees.
The process was undertaken executive management.
for the purpose of adding value to the During the year the Committee reviewed quality of the Board and its procedures Brokers reports are discussed at Board structure, size and composition, through identifying and addressing scheduled Board meetings and public including a profile of the skills, knowledge strengths and weaknesses.
Additionally, relations and analysts reports are and experience represented on the it was utilised to assess Director distributed to the full Board.
A NonBoard, which was utilised to facilitate the effectiveness and the time commitments Executive Director maintains regular Boards review of Director independence, of Non-Executive Directors.
Actions communications with SOCOs major including tenure in particular.
The for improvement were undertaken as institutional shareholders, reports Committee made recommendations to deemed appropriate.
The Committee feedback directly to the Board and the Board concerning plans for performed a review of its TOR and of its advises the Board when additional succession which were developed in own performance as part of this process.
communication from the Chairman, consideration of the need for refreshment Senior Independent or other Nonwhile taking into account the skills and Relations with Shareholders Executive Directors has been requested.
experience needed on the Board to meet The Executive Directors are responsible The Chairman regularly interfaces the specific challenges and opportunities for ensuring effective communication with other principal shareholders.
The results of these is maintained with key stakeholders The Board considers whether additional reviews were in turn utilised in developing and partners, including establishing communication may be appropriate or the Committees recommendations for an appropriate level of contact with desirable.
In particular, the delegated continuation in office and reappointment major shareholders and ensuring that role of the Senior Independent Director of retiring Directors.
their views are communicated to the includes being available to shareholders Board.
The Non-Executive Directors if they have concerns which cannot be After giving consideration to Board are responsible for taking sufficient fully or appropriately addressed by the structure and composition, evaluations, steps to understand these views, Chairman or the Executive Directors.
time commitments, length of service, including any issues or concerns.
individual contributions, refreshment Internal Control and the requirements of the Board, the SOCO maintains an open and active The Directors are responsible for Committee recommended that each of dialogue with shareholders.
The establishing, maintaining and reviewing the retiring Directors offering to stand for Company maintains an internet website the effectiveness of a sound system re-election be proposed by the Board for wherein important information can be of internal control which is designed to reappointment at the forthcoming AGM.
posted and disseminated promptly to a provide reasonable assurance regarding Mr John Snyder has taken the decision to wide audience and through which the reliability of financial information and retire at the AGM and, accordingly, will not shareholders can electronically interface to safeguard the shareholders investment stand for reappointment.
At a and the assets of the Company and minimum, the Company provides three Group.
Given the inherent limitations The Committee has a process in place personal communication forums annually in any system of internal control, even for identifying and nominating candidates the AGM, the presentation of Annual a sound system can only provide to fill vacancies which may arise from Results and the presentation of Interim reasonable assurance, and not time to time, including ensuring Board Results whereby shareholders can absolute assurance, that the Company will membership is sufficiently refreshed and directly interface with Company executive not be hindered in achieving its business retains an appropriate balance of skills management.
Notice of the AGM is objectives or be protected against and experience.
The Committee develops circulated to all shareholders at least 21 material misstatement or loss.
an appropriate description of the role, 42 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financials Financials Governance Financials The Board seeks to ensure that internal The Board has put in place formally control and risk management processes, defined lines of responsibility and including dealing with any identified areas delegation of authority and has of improvement, are embedded within delegated to executive management the business.
the implementation of material internal control systems.
Documented policies The Board has performed a specific and procedures are in place for key assessment for the purpose of this Annual systems and processes and the authority Report and Accounts, which considers of the Directors is required for key matters.
all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period, and is satisfied A comprehensive budgeting process is with the process employed and the in place for all items of expenditure and results thereof.
The Audit Committee an annual budget is approved by the spearheads the Board in discharging Board.
Actual results are reported against its review responsibilities.
Audit budget on a regular basis.
Revised Committee membership comprises forecasts for the year and longer term highly experienced professionals with financial projections are produced complementary areas of expertise in the regularly throughout the year.
oil and gas sector and each Committee member makes an important contribution The Board has the primary responsibility to the assurance process.
Mr Peter for identifying the major business risks Kingston, Mr John Norton and facing the Company and Group and Mr Martin Roberts undertake specific developing appropriate policies to review processes in the areas of technical manage those risks.
The risk management and operating, financial and audit, and approach is used to focus attention on commercial and legal, respectively, the Groups most significant areas of risk and report the results of their work to and to determine key control objectives.
the full Committee and to the Board.
The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Combined Code, by establishing a Although the Company does not continuous process, which has been in currently have an internal audit function, place throughout the year to the date of the Directors review at least annually the this report and which is in accordance need to establish such a function.
The with Internal Control: Revised Guidance Companys current staff size limits the for Directors on the Combined Code ability to form an effective internal audit published in October 2005, for identifying, function and, accordingly, the Company evaluating and managing the significant outsources any internal audit requirements.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which is constantly Directors and Auditors evolving to meet the demands of a Responsibilities dynamic environment.
The responsibilities of the Directors and auditors are set out in the Annual Report In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the of the Directors on page 37 and in Combined Code, the effectiveness of the Independent Auditors Report the Groups system of internal control, on page 52. including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, is regularly reviewed by the Directors.
The review is based principally on discussions with management and on reviewing reports provided by management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled, but also may include independent interaction with employees or third parties.
Particular scrutiny is applied to the review of controls applicable to new or evolving areas of risks as they are identified.
The Board considers whether appropriate actions are taken promptly to correct any significant weaknesses identified, and if more extensive monitoring may be required.
The Board confirms that such actions as deemed necessary and appropriate have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified in its review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 43
