 13 6 08 10:33 Page 44 Corporate governance The table below summarises the small group of risks that were identified as key, together with a short description of monitoring mitigation activities and sponsorship at Board level.
Risk Risk Board number area sponsor Risk monitoring mitigation Target 2008 09 1 Economic slowdown Justin Read Flexibility of inventory and suppliers.
Targeting further growth in 2008 09, Continued research analysis around but contingency plans being the economic environment and its developed in case outlook effect on the construction industry.
A favourable revenue mix between Focus on building brand commercial construction, public sector strength customer intimacy and large infrastructure projects.
and on increasing industrial Public sector committed spending customer base.
Continued work to increase Civil engineering and infrastructure proportion of secured projects offset potential decline in revenue.
2 Business coordination Steve Corcoran A more integrated business, more Continue to align and integrate closely aligned to customers and business to customers markets.
Development of expanded services beyond hire.
3 Coordination All Coordinated programme management Challenges faced in major implementation of through dedicated programmes programmes in 2007 08 key strategic projects office PMO and appointment of largely now overcome.
All programmes managed Consistent Speedy Hire programme on time within budget methodology developed and deployed through PMO.
Standard acquisition integration approach developed and in use within Speedy Hire.
4 IT Business Information Justin Read Use of external expertise for service Further integration between Systems provision, development and project change and acquisition management.
programmes and IT Extensive change planning.
Improvement in skills depth and expertise.
Phased implementation across the business.
Focus of particular executive attention in 2007 08.
5 Effective Steve Corcoran Integrated IT business information Forthcoming Group-wide communications systems.
strategy roadshow in Improved cross-selling through training.
Regular communication forums and Integrated communications communications strategy for internal strategy.
6 Recruitment, motivation, Mike McGrath Role segmentation.
Continued roll-out and embedding training and retention Strategic people planning and of strategic HR process.
of personnel clarity on career pathways via Speedy Career Journey process.
Alignment of incentive programmes with business objectives.
44 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:33 Page 45 Risk Risk Board number area sponsor Risk monitoring mitigation Target 2008 09 7 Market competition Justin Read Speedy Hire continues to capture Continue to capture market share market share from competitors.
through organic growth and Speedy Hire has strength and depth of participation in the ongoing financial resources to compete on price consolidation of the industry.
Maintain close monitoring Speedy Hires competitive position of Speedy Hires competitive continually benchmarked against peers.
position and take proactive Closer business coordination enhances.
Speedy Hires ability to compete in all sectors.
Opportunities to grow revenue through international expansion being pursued.
8 Major acquisition Mike McGrath Robust opportunity selection Continue embedding core selection and integration Opportunity radar tracking.
acquisition and integration Proactive planning for integration competency.
lifecycle: Greater linkage between coordinated team acquisition programmes active management and other change processes phased approach and internal projects.
communication Other risks which do not feature on the above table nevertheless are Corporate Governance Summary regularly reviewed.
For example: In June 2006 the Financial Reporting Council published a revised version of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the 1.
The need to maintain and improve continually Speedy Hires Code.
For financial years commencing on or after systems and controls over Health & Safety risk.
1 November 2006, a listed Company is required to state in its annual 2.
The need to ensure that Speedy Hire is able to maintain access financial report whether it complies with the Code.
The Company to capital markets and to ensure attractive funding of long-term confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March 2008, the growth plans.
Company has remained fully compliant.
The Board remains committed to the ongoing enhancement and The Code comprises a set of main principles which cover the general performance of Speedy Hires risk management and internal controls.
themes of Directors remuneration, financial reporting, internal control We seek to continuously improve our qualitative and quantitative and communication with shareholders.
Each main principle is techniques for the ongoing analysis of business risk issues and the expanded by a set of supporting principles as well as detailed cost of risk to the Group.
We continue to see the management of risk provisions.
as a business enabler, and acknowledge the potential upside value of risk consciously taken and well managed in alignment with our This Corporate governance report and the Directors remuneration corporate strategy.
The Groups brand and reputation is fundamental report on pages 50 to 58 contain a detailed explanation of how to its continued growth and success, and active management of Speedy Hire applied the main and supporting principles of the Code.
operational and other risks is seen as being critical in ensuring that these are maintained as valuable assets.
We see the effectiveness of For ease of reference, a summary of Speedy Hires compliance with our approach to risk management as helping to create reassurance the Codes provisions is included here with cross-references to the for our shareholders, employees and other stakeholders around the relevant pages of the Companys Corporate governance report, Groups decision making, management of change and capital Remuneration report, other sections of the Annual Report and the allocation.
Notice of Meeting in respect of the 2008 AGM.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5  13 6 08 10:33 Page 46 Corporate governance Combined Directors Code provision Comment Page The Board meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
1.1 Compliant 37 to 39 schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
The Corporate Governance report includes a statement of how the Board operates and which issues are delegated to management.
The 2008 Annual Report identifies the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Senior Independent A.
1.2 Compliant 33 and 37 Director and the Chairmen and members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The number of meetings of the Board and the Committees and individual attendance by Directors is provided.
In 2008, the Chairman met the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present and A.
1.3 Compliant 38 the Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman and Executive Directors present at least once.
Where Directors have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which A.
1.4 Compliant 39 cannot be resolved, they ensure that their concerns are recorded in the Board minutes.
The Company arranges comprehensive Directors and Officers liability insurance cover.
1.5 Compliant 39 The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are not exercised by the same individual.
2.1 Compliant 39 division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is set out in the Combined Code Compliance Statement available on the Companys website.
On appointment, the Chairman met the independence criteria set out in A.
2.2 Compliant 39 Chief Executive should not go on to be the Chairman of the same Company.
The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
3.1 Compliant 39 There are, in addition to the Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Directors out of a total A.
The Board has appointed Ishbel Macpherson as Senior Independent Director.
3.3 Compliant 39 available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of communication or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Nomination Committee, comprising the Chairman, the four other Non-Executive Directors A.
4.1 Compliant 39 and the Chief Executive, meets as necessary and at least once a year.
The Chairman of the Company chairs the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are set out in the Combined Code Compliance Statement available on the Companys website.
The Nomination Committees principal functions are to review the structure, size and composition A.
4.2 Compliant 39 of the Board, the membership of Board Committees and succession planning.
The Chairman is not Chairman of another FTSE 100 Company.
The Chairman discloses to the Board A.
4.3 Compliant 39 any changes to his other significant commitments as they arise.
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors each have a letter of appointment for specified terms A.
4.4 Compliant 55 of three years or less containing reciprocal notice provisions of six months in the case of the Chairman and three months in the case of Ishbel Macpherson, David Galloway, Peter Atkinson, and Michael Averill.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors will be available for A.
4.4 Compliant Notice of inspection at the 2008 AGM.
AGM The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors state that they should exercise such A.
4.4 Compliant 39 powers and perform such duties as are appropriate to the role.
The Non-Executive Directors undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
Details of other material commitments are disclosed and a register of the same maintained by the Company Secretary.
None of the Directors is a Non-Executive Director or Chairman of a FTSE 100 Company.
4.5 Compliant 39 The work of the Nomination Committee and the process used in relation to Board appointments A.
4.6 Compliant 39 and 60 is described in the Corporate governance and Nomination Committee reports.
The process for inducting new Directors to the Board and details of ongoing training is described A.
5.1 Compliant 3940 in the Corporate Governance report.
A procedure is in place so that Directors are able, if required, to seek independent professional A.
5.2 Compliant 40 advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties.
This is set out in the Combined Code Compliance Statement available on the Companys website.
46 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:33 Page 47 Combined Directors Code provision Comment Page All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
5.3 Compliant 40 Company Secretary has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
The Corporate Governance report contains a description of how performance evaluation of the Board, A.
6.1 Compliant 40 its Committees and the individual Directors was conducted in the year ended 31 March 2008.
The NonExecutive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, reviewed the performance of the Chairman.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment A.
7.1 Compliant 41 and a minimum of one-third of Directors must retire at each AGM.
The Notice of Meeting for the 2008 AGM contains sufficient biographical details to enable shareholders to take an informed Notice of decision in relation to those Directors seeking election or re-election.
AGM David Wallis and David Galloway have each served on the Board for more than six years.
7.2 Compliant 35 Walliss proposed re-election has been subject to review and takes into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Directors remuneration Performance-related elements of the remuneration of Executive Directors form a significant B.
1.1 Compliant 52 proportion of the total remuneration and are designed to align their interests with those of shareholders and to give the Directors keen incentives to perform at the highest levels.
The Remuneration Committee followed the provisions of Schedule A to the Code in designing B.
1.1 Compliant 52 the share plans approved by shareholders at the 2004 AGM.
The Company does not offer executive share options at a discount save as permitted by the B.
The Board sets levels of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors which reflect the time commitment B.
1.3 Compliant 41 and responsibilities of the role.
Non-Executive Directors are not awarded share options.
None of the Executive Directors served as a Non-Executive Director elsewhere.
1.4 Compliant 41 The Remuneration Committee has carefully considered what compensation commitments B.
1.5 Compliant 54 including pension contributions and all other elements the Directors terms of appointment would entail in the event of termination and this is explained in the Directors remuneration report.
Notice or contract periods for all Executive Directors are set at one year Justin Reads service contract B.
1.6 Compliant 41 contains a longer notice period but took effect after the end of the financial year ended 31 March 2008 as described above.
The Remuneration Committee comprises all the independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the B.
A description of the role of the Remuneration Committee and the authority delegated to it by the Board is included in the Directors remuneration report.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are contained in the Combined Code Compliance Statement available on the Companys website.
The Directors remuneration report includes a statement on whether the remuneration B.
2.1 Compliant 41 consultants appointed by the Remuneration Committee have any other connection with the Company.
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration Committee for setting remuneration for B.
2.2 Compliant 41 all Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee also recommends and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Non-Executive Directors fees, excluding those of the Chairman, are determined by a B.
2.3 Compliant 41 Committee comprising the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Commercial Director, and the Chief Operating Officer without the Non-Executive Directors present.
Shareholders are invited specifically to approve all new long-term incentive schemes and significant B.
2.4 Compliant 42 changes to existing schemes.
Notice of AGM 2004 and 2008 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5
