 13 6 08 10:33 Page 35 they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in Directors accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and have elected to The Directors who served during the year and the interests of prepare the Parent Company financial statements on the same Directors in the share capital of the Company are set out on pages basis.
The Group and Parent Company financial statements are required David Wallis and Peter Atkinson are retiring by rotation at the Annual by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial General Meeting and are offering themselves for re-election.
Justin position of the Group and the Parent Company and the performance Read, Claudio Veritiero, Ishbel Macpherson and Michael Averill, for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such having been appointed since the date of the last Annual General financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to Meeting, offer themselves for election in accordance with the financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their Companys Articles of Association.
The remaining Non-Executive members of the Board have In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial undertaken a review of the Chairmans performance and are satisfied statements, the Directors are required to: that David Wallis performs to the very highest standard as Chairman and that his wide experience of business and finance continue to be select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of great value to the Board and the Company.
The Board believe consistently: that David has played a vital role in overseeing the growth of the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Company and has been responsible for the strengthening and state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs development of the Board into the strong and effective team it is as adopted by the EU: and today.
David remains an important sounding board for the executive prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis team, providing trust and support whilst upholding high standards of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the governance through constructive challenge of strategy and Parent Company will continue in business.
The commitment and enthusiasm he brings to the role of Chairman is undiminished and the remaining The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records members of the Board unanimously support his re-election.
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Parent Company and enable them to The Board further recommends the appointments to the Board of ensure that these financial statements comply with the Companies Justin Read, Claudio Veritiero, Ishbel Macpherson and Michael Act 1985.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as Averill.
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Ishbel has succeeded Frank Dee as Senior Independent Director and since her appointment following the AGM last year has made a Under applicable laws and regulations, the Directors are also valued and effective contribution to the Boards deliberations.
As responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors noted in the Chairmans review of the Board, Michael brings with him Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance statement that many years experience of having run a large multinational Company comply with that law and those regulations.
and the international outlook which is increasingly important in the new global economy.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys No Director had any interest, either during or at the end of the year, website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and in any disclosable contracts or arrangements, other than a contract dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in of service, with the Company or any subsidiary company.
Director had any interest in the shares of any subsidiary company during the year.
Details of the Directors interests in transactions with Auditors related parties are set out in note 29 of the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc were reappointed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 17 July 2007 and their appointment expires at Disclosure of information to auditors the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting.
KPMG Audit The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Plc offer themselves, and are recommended by the Board, for Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is reappointment under the provisions of Section 384 of the no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are Companies Act 1985. unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit Takeover Directive Information information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware Where not provided elsewhere in this report, the additional of that information.
information required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeover Directive into English law is set out Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the below.
annual report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5  13 6 08 10:33 Page 36 Directors report Share capital Directors powers As at 31 March 2008, the Companys share capital comprised a At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 July 2008, single class of ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
As at 31 March shareholders will be asked to renew the Directors power to allot 2008 the authorised share capital of the Company was 3,000,000 shares and buy back shares in the Company and to renew the comprising 60,000,000 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, and the disapplication of pre-emption rights.
issued share capital was 2,542,415 comprising 50,848,301 ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
There are no special rights or Change of control significant agreements obligations attaching to the ordinary shares.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control Restrictions on share transfers following a takeover bid other than in relation to i employee share The Companys articles of association provide that the Company schemes and ii the Companys borrowings, which would become may refuse to transfer shares in the following customary repayable on a takeover being completed.
circumstances: Shares in the Company are held in the Speedy Hire Employee where the share is not a fully paid share Benefits Trust for the purpose of satisfying awards made under the where the share transfer has not been duly stamped with the Companys Performance Plan and Co-Investment Plan.
Unless correct amount of stamp duty otherwise directed by the Company, the Trustees of the Trust abstain where the transfer is in favour of more than four joint transferees from voting on any shares held in the Trust in respect of which the where the share is a certificated share and is not accompanied by benefitical interest has not vested in any beneficiary.
In relation to the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the shares held in the Trust where the beneficial interest has vested in a Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor: beneficiary, the beneficiary can direct the Trustees how to vote.
or in certain circumstances where the shareholder in question has Compensation for loss of office been issued with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Save in respect of Justin Reads service contract details of which are Act 2006. set out on page 54, there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for These restrictions are in addition to any which are applicable to all compensation for loss office or employment whether through UK listed companies imposed by law or regulation.
resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Shares with special rights There are no shares in the Company with special rights with regard Directors indemnities to control of the Company.
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company has indemnified each of the Directors who held office during the year and Restrictions on voting rights the Directors who have been appointed since the end of the financial The notice of the Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for year.
exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at Mere Court in relation to each resolution are announced at the Annual General Hotel and Conference Centre, Warrington Road, Mere, Knutsford, Meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
A formal notice of meeting, an explanatory circular and a form of proxy have each been Agreements which may result in restrictions on share sent separately to shareholders.
transfers The Company is not aware of any agreements between By order of the Board shareholders which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or on voting rights.
Patrick Rawnsley Company Secretary Appointment and replacement of Directors The Companys articles of association provide that all Directors must stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting after having been appointed by the Board.
Each Director must also stand for re-election at the third AGM following their last election or re-election.
If the number of Directors standing for re-election is less than one third of the current Board which excludes any Directors appointed by the Board who are standing for election for the first time then additional Directors must also stand for re-election in order that at least one third is standing.
Articles of Association The Companys articles of association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
36 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:33 Page 37 Corporate governance Highlights 37 Highlights Continued full compliance with Combined Code Risk management review by Marsh Directors 37 Ongoing review of the effectiveness of the Boards operation The Board 37 New Combined Code Compliance Statement, including revised and updated terms of reference of the Board and each Chairman and Chief Executive 39 Committee, available on the Companys website Board balance and independence 39 Appointment of Ishbel Macpherson as a Non-Executive Director Appointments to the Board 39 Appointment of Claudio Veritiero as an Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer Information and professional development 39 At the end of the year, retirement of Frank Dee as Non-Executive Performance evaluation 40 Director and Senior Independent Director.
Ishbel Macpherson Re-election 41 becomes Senior Independent Director After the end of the year, appointment of Justin Read as Finance Director and Michael Averill as Non-Executive Director and Directors remuneration 41 retirement of Neil OBrien as Group Finance Director.
The level and make-up of remuneration 41 The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Corporate Procedure 41 Governance.
The Board first reported its compliance with the new Combined Code in 2004 and since then has continued in its efforts to develop further its approach to corporate governance and the effective Accountability and audit 42 management of risk in the context of a rapidly growing business.
Financial reporting 42 Internal control 42 Accordingly, the following paragraphs together with the flow diagram on page 38 explain how the Company has applied the principles of good Audit Committee and auditors 42 governance and code of best practice set out in the current edition of the Combined Code.
Relations with shareholders 42 Throughout the year ended 31 March 2008, the Company has been Dialogue with institutional shareholders 42 in compliance with the provisions set out in the Combined Code.
Constructive use of the AGM 42 Directors Further development of internal control The Board The Board normally meets at least ten times per annum for and risk management procedures 43 scheduled Board meetings including a two day off-site meeting solely to discuss strategy.
In the year ended 31 March 2008, the Corporate governance summary 44 Board met eight times.
This is less than in the year ended 31 March 2007 due to one meeting falling just before and one immediately after the year end.
The Board also meets as required on an ad hoc basis to deal with urgent business, including the consideration and approval of transactions.
The table below lists the number of Board Meetings, Board Committee Meetings and Directors attendance during the year.
The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for decision by it.
This schedule, which forms part of a Combined Code Compliance Statement formally adopted by the Board, is available for inspection at the Companys registered office and on the Companys website www.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Plc Board Committee Committee Committee David Wallis 8 3 3 5 Frank Dee retired 31 March 2008 834 5 David Galloway 834 5 Steve Corcoran 8 3 2 5 Neil OBrien retired 31 May 2008 8 3 1 Peter Atkinson 833 5 Mike McGrath 8 3 1 Ishbel Macpherson joined 17 July 2007 613 4 Claudio Veritiero joined 28 November 2007 2 1 by invitation Justin Read joined on 1 April 2008 and Michael Averill joined on 1 May 2008 and accordingly attended no meetings during the year.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5  13 6 08 10:33 Page 38 Corporate governance Corporate governance structure The Combined Code Compliance Statement was last revised on Corporate governance structure 22 May 2008.
The matters reserved for specific approval by the Board can be subdivided into a number of key areas including but not limited to: Keep it simple, do it well!
Committees Financial reporting including the approval of interim and final financial statements, interim management statements and dividends.
Audit Remuneration Nomination The Groups finance, banking and capital structure arrangements.
Stock Exchange Listing Authority matters including the issue of shares, the approval of circulars and communications to the External market.
evaluation Approval of the policies and framework in relation to remuneration Group Board of projects across the Group following appropriate recommendations from consultants the Remuneration Committee.
Approval of the Groups risk management and control framework following appropriate recommendations from the Audit Executive Management Team Strategic Projects Group Committee.
The constitution of the Board itself, including its various Chief Executive Executive Management Team Project Team Finance Director Committees, and succession planning following appropriate Chief Operating Officer e. g. recommendations from the Nomination Committee.
Commercial Director Business processes IT Approving the Groups policies in relation to, inter alia, the Divisional heads Sales customers Group sales marketing HR people environment, Health & Safety and Corporate Responsibility.
Director of Environment, Asset management Safety and Health Property Matters requiring Board and Committee approval are generally the subject of a proposal by the Executive Directors submitted to the Project teams drive through Board, together with supporting information, as part of the Board or Operating businesses projects into the businesses see separate structure Committee papers circulated prior to the relevant meeting.
The diagram in the OFR, page 22 implementation of matters approved by the Board, particularly in relation to matters such as significant acquisitions or other material projects sometimes includes the establishment of a sub-committee The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are held by David Wallis comprising at least one Non-Executive Director.
In addition to the Chairman, the Board includes four independent Non-Executive Directors, Ishbel Macpherson, David Galloway, Peter Atkinson and from 1 May 2008 Risk management process Michael Averill, who together bring a strong and independent NonExecutive element to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is Ishbel Macpherson, who too Regular r k over th eporting is role from Frank Dee after his retirement on 31 March 2008.
The Audit Committee is chaired by David Galloway.
Its other Risk Working Group members are Ishbel Macpherson, Peter Atkinson and Michael Averill.
Executive Management Team In accor da Identify and evaluate nce with the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees, the risks Chairman, David Wallis, is not a membe Boa r of th rd sponsor for each e Audit Committee.
Develop and monitor identified area of risk action plans Liaison with line management The Rem Line uneramanagement tion Committee is chaired by Ishbel Macpherson.
Its responsibility other members are David Galloway, Peter Atkinson and Michael Quarterly review Averill.
of Risk Register and trends in The Nomination Committee comprises the four Non-Executive changes in risk Independent evaluation Directors, the Chief Executive and the Chairman, and is chaired by Marsh David Wallis.
Group Board Evaluation of risk TheIndependent Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors meet at least twice Review of risk review a year without the Executive Directors present.
In addition, the management plans Audit Committee Review of progress Chairman regularly briefs the other Non-Executive Directors on against plans relevant developments regarding the Company and Group as Oversee process necessary.
The Senior Independent Director, Ishbel Macpherson, and the other Non-Executive Directors meet at least annually without the Chairman present to appraise the Annual r Chairm eporting ans performance as part of the overall Board annual appraisal process.
38 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:33 Page 39 The minutes of all meetings of the Board and each Committee are Subsequent to the end of the year and prior to the appointment of taken by the Company Secretary.
In addition to constituting a record Michael Averill on 1 May 2008, the Board was for one month nonof decisions taken, the minutes reflect questions raised by the compliant in terms of balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors relating to the Companys businesses and, in particular, Directors.
This was attributable to the Groups desire to keep the issues raised from the monthly reports included in the Board or services of Neil OBrien to ensure a period of orderly handover to the Committee papers circulated prior to the relevant meeting.
Any incoming Group Finance Director, Justin Read.
The Board believes unresolved concerns are recorded in the minutes.
the benefit of retaining Neil OBriens services outweighed this short period of non-compliance under the Code.
Since the appointment of On resignation, concerns if any raised by an outgoing NonMichael Averill and the retirement of Neil OBrien, the Company is Executive Director are circulated by the Chairman to the remaining once again fully compliant.
Appointments to the Board Appropriate Directors and Officers insurance cover is arranged and The Board has established a Nomination Committee.
Its terms of maintained via the Companys insurance brokers, Marsh, and its reference are also included in the Combined Code Compliance terms are reviewed annually.
The Committee meets formally as necessary, but at least once a year and met five times during Chairman and Chief Executive 2007 08.
The principal functions of the Nomination Committee are to A statement as to the division of the responsibilities of the Chairman consider and review the structure and composition of the Board and and Chief Executive is included in the Combined Code Compliance membership of Board Committees.
It also considers candidates for Statement formally adopted by the Board referred to above.
The Board nomination at both Plc and operating level, including job Board considers that the Chairman on his appointment met the description, re-election to the Board for those candidates retiring by independence criteria set out in paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined rotation and succession planning generally.
It is the policy of the Board that the Chief Executive should not role of Chairman, including anticipated time commitment, is included go on to become Chairman.
as part of the written statement of division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive which was revised and updated in Board balance and independence May 2008.
Details of the Chairmans other material commitments are The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 33 and are disclosed to the Board in advance and independent, on the basis of the criteria specified in paragraph A.
3.1 included in a register of the same maintained by the Company of the Combined Code and generally, and are free from any business Secretary.
or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all the Non-Executive Directors, including those of the Chairman, are available for As disclosed in the notes to the Accounts, David Galloway is a Noninspection at the Companys registered office during normal Executive Director of Carter & Carter Plc in administration with business hours.
Each letter of appointment specifies the anticipated whom the Company entered into a significant contract during the level of time commitment including, where relevant, additional year ended 31 March 2008 which contract has since been responsibilities derived from involvement with the Audit, terminated following Carter & Carters administration.
Details of other material Notwithstanding this, the Board is satisfied that David Galloway commitments are disclosed to the Board and a register of the same continues to be independent.
David Galloway did not participate in maintained by the Company Secretary.
any Board discussions or decision-making relating to Carter & Carter None of the Directors is a Non-Executive Director or Chairman of a plc or the contract in question and was not involved in any way in FTSE 100 Company.
the negotiation of the terms of the contract or its termination.
A more detailed summary of the work of the Nomination Committee Currently there are, in addition to the Chairman, four Non-Executive during the year is contained in the separate report of the Committee Directors on the Board out of a total of nine Directors and their on page 60. respective experience, details of which are set out on page 33, clearly indicate that they are of sufficient calibre and number for their Information and professional development views to carry appropriate weight in the Boards decisions.
The Before each scheduled Board meeting, all Directors receive Senior Independent Director, Ishbel Macpherson, is available to appropriate information regarding the Group comprising a financial shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the report and briefings from senior executives.
The Chief Executive also normal channels of Chief Executive and Chairman or Group Finance briefs Directors on results, key issues and strategy.
During Board Director fail to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Meetings, the Non-Executives regularly make further enquiries of the Executive Directors and seek further information which is provided either at the relevant meeting or subsequently.
A monthly information pack is compiled on market data, including information and activity in relation to competitors and the construction industry generally.
This information is drawn from a number of respected sources and provides a current, constantly updated summary of trends in the Groups market.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5  13 6 08 10:33 Page 40 Corporate governance The Board offers appropriate training to any Director whose Performance evaluation appointment to the Board is the first appointment of that Director The Chairman appraises all Board members annually.
This takes the to the Board of a listed Company.
The Board also recognises the form of a review of the degree of success in achieving objectives set importance of ongoing training and education, particularly regarding for the year and agreeing areas for improvement going forward.
new laws and regulations which relate to or affect the Group.
Such During the financial year ended 31 March 2006, the Chairman and training and education is obtained by the Directors individually Company Secretary had engaged the services of specialist through the Company or through other companies of which they performance consultants, Lintstock, to carry out a detailed are Directors.
independent review of the Boards processes and procedures.
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Commercial Director Lintstocks evaluation concentrated on six key questions: and Chief Operating Officer each have a business coach to help with their overall development as business leaders.
The Group has How does the Board ensure that the long-term objectives of the continued to work closely with Ashridge Business School as regards Companys senior management are aligned with those of its the provision of ongoing management training for Executive shareholders?
Directors and other senior management.
How does the Board test the Companys medium-term strategies and evaluate the performance of its senior management?
All the Non-Executive Directors have, during the course of the year, How does the Board set the remuneration of the Executive attended briefings and seminars relevant to their role, including Directors?
updates on best practice in audit and remuneration issues and How does the Board monitor the Companys systems of audit, economic affairs in general, as well as bringing knowledge and internal control and financial reporting?
information gathered from their other business interests.
How does the Board assist in the Companys succession planning?
The Chairman and the Company Secretary meet on a regular How does the Board safeguard and develop the Companys core basis to discuss corporate governance and other issues including, values?
inter alia, information flows, induction and training programmes for Directors and operational management.
Lintstocks evaluation process included a series of confidential interviews with each main Board member and selected members of Procedures are in place to enable Directors to take independent divisional regional management.
Lintstocks key findings were, in the professional advice, if necessary at the Companys expense, in the main, very positive and concluded that the Board operates effectively furtherance of their duties.
The procedure to enable such advice to in relation to each of the above areas.
However, suggestions for be obtained is included in the Companys Combined Code improvement included: Compliance Statement.
Giving a greater focus to a smaller number of issues at each All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Board meeting and reducing the number of standing items.
Secretary, whose role is to ensure that all procedures are followed Improvements in the quality of business as opposed to financial and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The information, particularly in relation to employees, in order to allow removal of the Company Secretary is a matter specifically reserved trends to be spotted more easily.
for decision by the Board.
Ensuring greater clarity regarding the understanding of the role of the Board and the Groups central functions with the operational businesses.
Ensuring greater clarity in the setting of agreed objectives with executives at the start of each financial year.
Arranging dinners the night before set piece Board meetings with senior management below executive level to encourage debate and discussion in a more relaxed and informal environment.
Placing more focus on the Groups internal communication strategy to ensure key messages reach all levels of the business consistently.
Lintstocks findings were reviewed and discussed by the Board as a whole and steps were taken to implement the suggested improvements.
This year the Chairman has undertaken an internal review of the Boards processes and procedures.
The results of this exercise are referred to in the Directors Report.
40 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:33 Page 41 Re-election On a regular basis, the Remuneration Committee, with the Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are assistance of HNBS, reviews the compensation commitments the subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Executive Directors service contracts would entail in the event of Meeting following appointment and all Directors are subject to early termination.
The Committee also from time to time considers retirement by rotation provisions requiring re-election at intervals of the advantages of liquidated damages clauses in service contracts.
Sufficient biographical details of all the In any event, the Committees policy remains that compensation for Directors, including those subject to election or re-election, are termination of the service contract of an Executive Director would included in this Report in order to enable shareholders to take an not be paid in the case of removal for misconduct and that a robust informed decision on any re-election resolution.
The letters of line should be taken as regards departing Directors obligations to appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors and the mitigate loss.
Chairman confirm that appointments are for specified terms and that reappointment is not automatic.
Peter Atkinson commences a The service contracts of all Executive Directors provide for second three year term in June 2008.
Ishbel Macpherson and termination by the Company on one years notice except in the case Michael Averill commenced their first three year terms in July 2007 of Justin Read whose service contract which took effect from his and May 2008 respectively.
The appointments of the Chairman and appointment on 1 April 2008 provides for a two year notice period in David Galloway have been renewed for further one year terms to the event of termination following a change of control that occurs 31 March 2009. within the first year of employment declining to a 12 month notice period after the first 12 months.
Directors remuneration Procedure The level and make-up of remuneration The Board has constituted a Remuneration Committee which met The performance-related elements of the remuneration of the four times during the year.
Its terms of reference are included in the Executive Directors form a significant proportion of their total Combined Code Compliance Statement and are fully compatible remuneration packages.
The performance-related elements of the with the provisions of paragraph B.
The schemes in which the Executive Directors are entitled to participate are Remuneration Committee consists of the Non-Executive Directors, set out in more detail in the Remuneration report.
The Remuneration excluding the Chairman, who are independent of management and Committee, with the advice of Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, free from any business or other relationship which could materially reviews on a regular basis the Companys remuneration policy interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Chief including the design of performance-related remuneration schemes.
Executive regularly attends by invitation but is not present for Such performance-related elements have been designed with a view discussions relating to his own remuneration.
The Remuneration to aligning the interests of the Executive Directors with those of Committee has appointed HNBS to advise it in relation to the design shareholders and to incentivise performance at the highest level.
The of appropriate executive remuneration structures.
HNBS have no Boards policy is that no executive share options should be offered at a other connection with the Company.
discount save as permitted by the Listing Rules.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include setting Levels of remuneration payable to Non-Executive Directors are remuneration policy, ensuring that remuneration including pension regularly benchmarked, with the assistance of external advisers, rights and compensation payments and the terms of service of the against companies of a similar size.
The levels of remuneration also Executive Directors, the Chairman and the tier of operating reflect the time, commitment and responsibilities of each role management immediately below Board level are appropriate and that including, where relevant, Chairmanship of Board Committees.
they are fairly rewarded for the contribution which they make to the It is the policy of the Board that remuneration for Non-Executive Groups overall performance.
It is also responsible for the allocation of Directors should not include share options.
No current Executive shares under long-term incentive arrangements approved by Director serves as a Non-Executive Director elsewhere.
shareholders and in accordance with agreed criteria.
In addition, it monitors current best practice in remuneration and related issues.
The Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is dealt with by a Committee of the Board specifically established for this purpose comprising the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Commercial Director and the Chief Operating Officer.
The Remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is the subject of regular benchmarking reviews carried out at least every two years with the assistance of HNBS.
The last such benchmarking exercise was carried out in February 2007.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5  13 6 08 10:33 Page 42 Corporate governance The Boards policy is that all new long-term incentive schemes as The Committee meets on a regular basis with the external auditors defined in the Listing Rules and significant changes to existing and internal audit function, without the Executive Directors being schemes should be specifically approved by shareholders, while present as appropriate, to review and discuss issues arising from recognising that the Remuneration Committee must have internal and external audits and to agree the scope and planning of appropriate flexibility to alter the operation of these arrangements to future work.
In addition, as part of the Companys commitment to transparency as regards its remuneration The effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function is one of the policy and maintaining a continuous dialogue with shareholders, the matters reviewed in conjunction with KPMG.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Ishbel Macpherson, has held discussions with shareholders to take soundings on the key The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a features of the proposed changes to the Executive Directors recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and removal of incentive arrangements.
The policy of the Audit Committee is to ensure auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded at all times.
Specifically, non-audit services, including taxation and consultancy Accountability and audit advice and due diligence in relation to significant acquisitions, are Financial reporting routinely put out to tender to other external accounting firms.
During The Directors report and Auditors report appear on pages 34 to 36 the year the Company used two such additional firms.
Accordingly, and 61 respectively and comply with the provisions of paragraphs the Audit Committee considers that the Companys auditors are C. 1.1 and C. 1.2 of the Combined Code.
Internal control A more detailed description of the work of the Audit Committee The Board is responsible for the Companys schemes of internal during the year is contained in the separate report of the Committee control and reviewing the effectiveness of such systems.
The Board, via the Audit Committee, conducts a review, at least Relations with shareholders annually, of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Such review examines all material controls, including financial, operational and Dialogue with institutional shareholders compliance controls and risk management systems, and accords The Chairman routinely attends brokers and analysts presentations with the recommendations contained in the Turnbull Guidance.
A in relation to the Companys interim and full year results.
The formal report is prepared by KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, highlighting Chairman, with assistance from the Companys brokers, collates matters identified in the course of its statutory audit work and feedback from such presentations and reports the findings to the reviewed by the Audit Committee in the presence of KPMG, the next meeting of the Board.
The Chairman also maintains a regular Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the head of the dialogue with major shareholders in relation to, inter alia, strategy and Groups Internal Audit function.
The Committee also considers formal corporate governance issues.
The Senior Independent Director, reports prepared and presented by the Internal Audit function.
The Ishbel Macpherson, is available to attend sufficient meetings with findings and recommendations of the Committee are then reported major shareholders in order to understand their issues and concerns to the Board for detailed consideration.
should the normal communication channels with the Chairman and Chief Executive be ineffective or inappropriate.
Audit Committee and auditors The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are set out in full in Constructive use of the AGM the Combined Code Compliance Statement.
Such terms of The Companys AGM procedures indicate, as a matter of course, reference are compatible with the provisions of paragraph C. 3 of the the level of proxies lodged on each resolution and the balance for Combined Code.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of the and against each resolution and votes withheld after it has been Audit Committee, David Galloway, has appropriate recent and dealt with on a show of hands.
It is also the Companys policy to relevant financial experience.
propose a separate resolution at the AGM on each substantive separate issue, including in relation to the report and accounts and In addition to its work in relation to the Groups systems of internal the Directors remuneration report.
controls set out above, the Committee is also responsible for reviewing the integrity of the Companys accounts, including the All Committee Chairmen are available at the AGM.
annual and interim results, and recommending their approval to the The Companys standard procedure is to ensure that the notice of Board.
The Committees work also includes reviewing the adequacy of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures which have been AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting in compliance with paragraph developed in conjunction with the Groups retained security and investigation advisers.
42 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:33 Page 43 The Board has established a detailed register listing the strategic, Further development of internal control and risk financial and operational risks potentially affecting the Group.
These management procedures include, but are not limited to, the macro-market and economic The Board is fully committed to identifying, evaluating and managing conditions in which the Group operates, competitor activities, significant risks facing the Group, and has developed a set of gearing, regulation and current business projects, including those processes and protocols that enable it to do so.
Our approach to risks associated with acquisitions.
Risks are prioritised according to managing risk is summarised in the diagram below.
As a listed their expected likelihood of occurring and impact if they were to Company, Speedy Hire is required, under the terms of the Financial occur.
Impact is evaluated not only in terms of possible financial Reporting Councils revised Combined Code on Corporate impact on Speedy Hire loss of income additional expenditure but Governance the Code for public companies listed on the London also according to their effects on employees, operational efficiency Stock Exchange, to demonstrate a sound system of internal and stakeholder relations.
We are confident that the controls we have established meet the requirements of the Code.
Moreover, we continue to From the comprehensive list of risks identified, eight risk issues have enhance our risk management processes and protocols to enable been identified, the successful management of which is seen as key the Group to undertake key strategic initiatives with confidence and to Speedy Hires ability to achieve its corporate goals.
In line with the with a clear understanding of the risks.
currently unstable economic outlook, the risk associated with an economic downturn and the effect this might have on Speedy Hire is Risk management process now considered a key risk for executive management and Board Regular reporting and review attention.
Speedy Hires key risks are discussed in more detail below.
An Executive Board Director from the Group has been assigned to take responsibility for the management of each risk.
Overall responsibility for the risk management process rests at Board level with the Group Finance Director.
The Board systematically reviews Risk Operational Framework Executive Management Team and evaluates the risks of the Group on a half-yearly basis, which Idenify and update key risks to Identify and evaluate risks ensures that as new risks emerge in connection with projects or the business Develop and monitor action plans general market developments, appropriate actions can be Executive Board sponsor for Reinforce line management each risk discussed, agreed and taken in a flexible manner.
responsibility Receive regular reports and liaise with line management Building on work from previous years, the Group engaged external risk advisers, Marsh, to facilitate independently a process involving Executive Directors and senior operational management to revalidate Board and update the detailed risk register.
This process has been focused In depth review of key risks on the identification, monitoring and management of risk, with Periodic review of risk register particular emphasis on Speedys key risks.
Overall, each risk to highlight changes, trends Regular reporting identified has been prioritised, in terms of expected impact and and emerging risks and review likelihood, as a focus for management attention and as an input to the independent assurance planning process.
Audit Committee Overview process and overall The Groups systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate Updates effectiveness risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Nevertheless, the Board Annual reporting places great emphasis on improving the Groups position, either Independent through mitigation measures to reduce the likelihood of the risk Sets expectations Independent evaluation Marsh review occurring, or in monitoring controls to limit the impact in the event that it materialises.
Evaluate risk Confirm and challenge risk management plans Review risk framework overall Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 43 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5
