Governance Directors statement on corporate governance the directors on pages 22 to 25, the Board has Compliance concluded that they should not be considered This statement describes how the principles and independent of the Company.
Details of other provisions as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate professional commitments of the Chairman and nonGovernance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in executive directors are provided in their biographies on June 2006 the Code have been applied within the page 21.
The Company adopted new Articles of Association The Board which were approved by shareholders at the Companys As at 31 December 2008, the Board comprised a 2008 Annual General Meeting 2008 AGM with effect chairman, four independent non-executive directors, from 1 October 2008.
The new Articles of Association one non-executive director not classified as independent permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to for the purposes of the Code when determining the authorise situations where a director has an interest composition of the Board or its Committees, and two that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests executive directors, details of whom are provided on of the Company situational conflicts.
The Board operates within a framework of a formal system in place for directors to declare controls including a formal schedule of matters situational conflicts and for these to be considered for specifically reserved for its decision.
At an Extraordinary authorisation by those directors who have no interest in General Meeting held on 22 December 2006 2006 the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to EGM shareholders elected Edward Bramson as a authorise a situational conflict, these non-conflicted director of the Company, following which the Board directors are required to act in the way they would elected him as Chairman.
Mr Bramson assumed consider would be most likely to promote the success responsibility for the management of the Group by of the Company and they may impose limits or conditions becoming Executive Chairman on 7 March 2007.
At that when giving authorisation, or subsequently, if they think point in time, as there was no longer a separation of the this is appropriate.
chairman and chief executive roles, Code Provision A.
Although Mr Bramson performed a critical Alex Walker currently serves as the Senior Independent role during the strategic review and reorganisation of the Non-Executive Director.
The Senior Independent NonGroup, the Board considered that, given the balance of Executive Director is available to meet shareholders non-executive directors, no single individual dominated upon request if they have concerns which contact its decision making.
However, on 6 November 2008 Bill through the normal channels the Chairman or an Burns was appointed as Chief Executive Officer resulting executive director has failed to resolve, or for which such in a separation of the chairman and chief executive roles contact would be inappropriate.
and renewed compliance with this Code provision.
It is Company policy to hold at least four Board meetings The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing a year.
There were seven Board meetings during 2008. leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent The agenda is settled by the Chairman in advance of the and effective controls, which enables risk to be meeting and Board papers are circulated to Board assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys strategic members several days ahead of any meeting.
Minutes of aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human previous meetings are circulated to all Board members resources are in place for the Company to meet its and approved at the next Board meeting.
objectives, and reviews management performance.
It also defines the Companys values and standards and Full attendance of the Board is expected at meetings ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are and in 2008 all directors attended all seven meetings understood and met.
except Duncan Lewis, who missed two meetings due to unavoidable diary conflicts.
Where the director was The independence of each director is reviewed at least absent, full documentation for the meeting was issued annually.
The Board determined that, within the terms of and briefings were provided as appropriate.
Where a the Code, Ian Brindle, Duncan Lewis, Tom Maxwell and director was absent it was ensured that any comments Alex Walker are all independent non-executive directors.
on the documentation or subject matter to be As Edward Bramson and Gerard Eastman have a considered were passed to the Board, as appropriate, connected material notifiable interest in the issued for consideration.
Ordinary Share capital of the Company see the Report of Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2008 27 Governance Directors statement on corporate governance continued Board and will, therefore, also offer themselves for The Board continued re-election at the 2009 AGM.
Certain of the matters specifically reserved for the Boards decision have been delegated to three On appointment to the Board and its Committees all Committees with clearly defined terms of reference directors receive an induction tailored to their individual which, together with the composition of each Committee, requirements.
New directors are briefed on their legal are reviewed annually.
and other duties and obligations as directors of a UK listed company.
Visits to different facilities and meetings The terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and with senior management are organised, as appropriate, Nomination Committees can be found on the Companys to assist the new director in developing an understanding website at www.
of how the Group operates and the key issues that it faces.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Performance evaluation They receive regular updates on business performance Performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees and receive presentations from the executive directors was carried out during the year by directors completing and other senior managers at Board meetings.
Directors questionnaires and the results being collated and are encouraged to update their skills continually and their analysed by the Company Secretary, who prepared a knowledge of the Company required to fulfill their role report for Board discussion.
The Board discussion both on the Board and on Board Committees.
Under the concluded that the Board and Committees operated well direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary and were effective.
ensures good and timely information flows within the Board and its Committees and makes sure that Board The Chairman communicates regularly with the nonprocedures are complied with.
The Company Secretary executive directors and this contact provides an also updates and advises the Board on all regulatory and opportunity to assess performance and to raise any governance matters.
questions regarding the performance of the executive directors or in respect of any other matters.
The There is a policy whereby the non-executive directors Chairman concluded that during the year the quality and and the Board Committees may take independent commitment of the non-executive directors was high.
The professional advice at the Companys expense in order to Chairman also confirms that all those non-executive fulfill their duties.
All directors also have access to the directors seeking re-election at the 2009 AGM continue advice and services of the Company Secretary, whose to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment removal may be effected only with the approval of to their roles, including having time to attend all Board the Board.
and appropriate Committee meetings and to carry out other appropriate duties.
Board appointments and induction The Board has in place a procedure for the appointment The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director met with of new directors to the Board which is in compliance with the independent non-executive directors on 16 December the Code and this procedure was applied in relation to 2008, in the absence of the Chairman, to assess the the appointment of Bill Burns during 2008.
Notwithstanding Mr Bramsons role as chairman and chief executive officer of Nautilus, The Companys Articles of Association require that all Inc the independent non-executive directors were of the directors seek election by shareholders at the first opinion that Mr Bramson gave sufficient time to his role annual general meeting following their appointment and as Chairman of the Company and was effective in that as a result, Bill Burns will offer himself for election at the role during the year.
They also require that all directors seek re-election at least every Board Committees three years and therefore, Ian Brindle and Alex Walker Audit Committee will offer themselves for re-election at the 2009 AGM.
Chairman, Ian Brindle Notwithstanding the requirements of the Companys The Audit Committee comprises Ian Brindle, Tom Maxwell Articles of Association, Edward Bramson and Gerard and Alex Walker, all of whom are independent nonEastman have agreed to offer themselves for re-election executive directors and the composition of the at each annual general meeting whilst they serve on the Spirent Communications plc 28 Annual Report 2008 Governance In November 2008 the Committee reviewed the external Board Committees continued auditors report on their strategy and scope for the audit Committee is compliant with the Code.
The Code of the annual financial statements and proposed fees.
requires that the Audit Committee includes at least one The Committee also reviewed the corporate risk register member who has recent, significant and relevant financial and an amended, updated Ethics Policy which it experience and the Board believes that both Ian Brindle recommended to the Board should be adopted and Tom Maxwell provide such experience.
During 2008, the Audit Committee held three meetings At each meeting the Group Vice President-Finance also at which there was full attendance by Committee briefed the Committee on progress made against the members.
At all meetings the Companys external annual internal control audit plan and any significant auditors, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Vice findings.
Regular reports to the Committee also covered President-Finance, the Head of Financial Reporting and issues in the areas of tax, litigation, treasury and health the Company Secretary were in attendance.
Chairman and the other directors may also attend the meetings.
The Committee also meets with the external The Audit Committee has adopted a policy in relation to auditors without management present.
The minutes of all the provision of non-audit services performed by the Committee meetings are available to all directors.
external auditor to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its independence or objectivity.
This policy is reviewed on an responsibilities by reviewing financial statements and annual basis.
A report is presented to the Committee on post audit findings before their presentation to the a regular basis detailing all non-audit services performed Board, focusing in particular on accounting policies, by the external auditors, including cost, when the compliance, management judgement and estimates.
services were provided and who approved the instruction.
It also monitors the Groups internal control and risk management regime and financial reporting.
Any This policy identifies those services which the external significant findings or identified weaknesses are closely auditors are permitted to provide and those which they examined so that appropriate action can be taken, are precluded from providing.
Precluded services include, monitored and reported to the Board.
The Audit but are not limited to, bookkeeping or other services Committee also advises the Board on the appointment relating to the accounting records or financial of external auditors.
statements, financial information systems design and implementation, management functions, human There is a detailed agenda for each Audit Committee resources, actuarial services and information technology meeting.
Specific issues dealt with during the year are consulting.
If the Company wishes to engage the external set out below.
auditors to provide any other services which are not contained in the policy and which are not precluded, In February 2008 the Committee considered the external the Company must obtain pre-approval for such auditors performance and independence and their services from the Audit Committee through the re-appointment, reviewed the annual financial Committees Chairman.
statements, key accounting policies, areas of judgement, quality of earnings, the external auditors report on the As part of this policy, the Committee also pre-approves year end audit and managements responses to the annual financial limits for permitted audit services, tax issues raised.
The Committee also reviewed corporate services and any other services, which the Company may governance within the Group, in particular compliance pay to Ernst & Young globally for services performed with Turnbull and the annual internal control audit plan.
These financial limits may not be exceeded without approval by the Committee.
Committee In August 2008 the Committee reviewed the Half-year approval of permitted services is not required during the Report, key accounting policies, areas of judgement, year provided the aggregate amounts paid by the quality of earnings, the external auditors report on the Company do not exceed the pre-approved financial limits.
half-year audit and managements responses to the issues raised.
The Committee also reviewed internal controls throughout the Group, with particular emphasis on visits by the financial management team to the business units.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2008 29 Governance Directors statement on corporate governance continued Statement in May, Half-year Report in August and the Board Committees continued Interim Management Statement in November.
The total fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP during the year to 31 December 2008 were 0.5 million 2007 The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 0.6 million of which none 2007 0.1 million related to Officer ensure that the views expressed at meetings with non-audit work.
Further disclosure of fees paid to the institutional shareholders are communicated effectively auditors during the year can be found in note 5 to the to the Board as a whole so that any issues or concerns audited consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Remuneration Committee The Company promotes the use of electronic Chairman, Alex Walker communication.
All stock exchange announcements and The Remuneration Committee comprises Ian Brindle, presentations to shareholders are made available on our Duncan Lewis and Alex Walker, all of whom are website, together with webcasts of our annual and independent non-executive directors and the composition half-year financial results.
Our website also contains of the Committee is compliant with the Code.
up to date corporate governance information including terms of reference for the three Board Committees, the Further details about the Remuneration Committee are terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive included in the Report on directors remuneration on directors, the Companys Ethics Policy and Articles pages 32 to 41. of Association.
Nomination Committee Electronic communications Chairman, Edward Bramson At its 2008 AGM the Company passed a resolution The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman and allowing it to communicate with shareholders by means all non-executive directors and meets at least once each of the Companys website and an invitation to sign up year.
During 2008 the Nomination Committee held two for this method of communication will be sent to meetings at which there was full attendance by shareholders with the 2009 AGM documentation.
Committee members except for Duncan Lewis, who was Electronic communications provide significant benefits unable to attend one meeting.
The Nomination for shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition of information, reduced environmental impact and cost and structure of the Board and for identifying and and the Board encourages investors to participate in recommending candidates for executive and nonthe programme.
executive positions, based on the required role and capabilities which have been specified for the Pensions governance appointment.
Executive search consultants are used by The Groups principal pension and retirement schemes the Nomination Committee to assist this process as exist in the UK and the US.
Scheme funds are held appropriate.
As the majority of members are independent separately from those of the Group and are administered non-executive directors, the composition of the by trustees which include employees and independent Committee is compliant with the terms of the Code.
The schemes do not lend money or lease any assets to the Group.
Relations with shareholders Communication with all shareholders is given a high Internal control priority and a number of methods are used to promote The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups greater understanding and dialogue with investment system of internal control.
The Board, assisted by the audiences.
Dialogue with institutional investors is Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of this conducted on a regular basis by the Chairman, the Chief system and this review did not reveal any significant Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Board confirms that this Companys largest shareholder, Sherborne Investors GP, process was in place throughout the year under review LLC has been represented on the Board by Edward and up to the date of approval of these financial Bramson and Gerard Eastman since December 2006. statements.
The primary aim is to operate a system which is appropriate to the business and which can, over The Company has an established cycle of communication time, increase shareholder value whilst safeguarding the based on its financial reporting calendar.
The system is designed to manage the Preliminary Results in February, Annual Report in rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve March, Annual General Meeting and Interim Management Spirent Communications plc 30 Annual Report 2008 Governance Internal control continued business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Process Day to day responsibility for effective internal control and risk monitoring rests with senior management at business unit level.
The Board and the Audit Committee continue to agree that currently there is no need for a dedicated internal control department.
Responsibility for internal control rests with the Group Vice President-Finance and North America Vice President-Finance.
Both of these senior finance managers are independent of any business unit and play a key role in providing an objective view and continuing assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control systems throughout the Group.
The Group consists of a limited number of entities which can comfortably be covered by the two senior finance managers.
As stated above, the Group Vice PresidentFinance attends all Audit Committee meetings to give an update on any internal control issues arising and any outstanding remedial actions.
The Groups system of risk management comprises an integrated risk management strategy of regular self-assessment of all business units.
Significant risks are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and by the Board.
In addition to this process, the following key elements are critical to the overall internal control environment: an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, defined lines of responsibility and delegated levels of authority: an ethics policy which has been approved by the Board, which sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and operations.
The Ethics Policy also includes whistleblowing procedures whereby employees may report, in confidence, suspected wrongdoings: a comprehensive strategic planning, financial control and budgeting system which is properly documented and regularly reviewed: and a disciplined acquisitions and divestments due diligence process and post acquisition integration programme.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2008 31
