spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 33 coRpoRATe GoVeRNANce RepoRT corporate Governance The Board of directors of the Company is committed to maintaining The non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be high standards of corporate governance and to managing the affairs of independent.
The former Chairman, David Richardson, was considered by the Board to be independent on appointment and the the Group in accordance with the provisions of the Listing Rules and of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, issued by the Financial Board considers Simon Bentley, the Acting Chairman, to be Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code.
The Board considers that an independent director is one who is independent in character and judgment, and where there are The Board has reviewed the Companys corporate governance no circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his or her judgement.
Relationships or circumstances that could affect processes and policies, and has concluded that during the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2008 the Year the Company complied with the judgement include having been an employee of the Company or of any provisions of the Combined Code except as set out below.
Group company during the past five years, having had a material business relationship or having been a partner, shareholder, director The Combined Code code provision A3.2 recommends that at least or senior employee of a body with a material business relationship with the Company or any Group company in the past three years, half of the Board of directors of a UK listed company, excluding the Chairman, should be comprised of non-executive directors receiving remuneration from the Company other than directors fees, determined by the Board to be independent in character and participating in any share option or bonus schemes or in a Company judgment and free from relationships or circumstances which may pension scheme, having had close family ties with any of the affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgment.
As explained Companys advisors, directors or senior employees, having cross directorships or significant links with any other director, representing below, during the period from 30 April to 31 May 2007 the Board of the Company consisted of the Chairman, three executive directors and two a significant shareholder, or serving on the Board for more than nine independent non-executive directors.
October 2007 the Board comprised the Acting Chairman, three executive directors and one independent non-executive director.
From The Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement with Mike Ashley, the Executive Deputy Chairman, who currently holds 25 October 2007 until the end of the Year the Board was made up of the Acting Chairman, three executive directors, and two independent approximately 72.2% of the issued share capital of the Company non-executive directors.
Accordingly during the Year the Company did excluding treasury shares, which agreement is described in the not comply with this provision of the Combined Code in this regard.
Given the structure of the Board and the terms of the Relationship The Combined Code also provides code provisions B2.1 and C3.1 that each of the Remuneration and Audit Committees of the Board should Agreement, the Board believes that no individual or small group of comprise of at least three independent non-executive directors, and individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
from 30 April 2007 until 31 May 2007 those Committees comprised of only two such directors.
From 31 May 2007 until 25 October 2007 the The Board has established a Nomination Committee to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of committees comprised only one such director and the Acting Chairman, and from 25 October 2007 comprised two independent non new directors to the Board.
The composition of that Committee and a executive directors and the Acting Chairman.
Accordingly during the description of its terms of reference are set out on page 36.
Year the Company did not comply with these provisions of the Combined Code.
Details of executive directors service contracts and of the Acting Chairmans and the non-executive directors appointment letters are On 31 May 2007 David Richardson, the Chairman, resigned from his given on page 41.
Copies of service contracts and of appointment appointment as Chairman and as a director, and Simon Bentley was letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office appointed Acting Chairman.
On 25 October 2007 Chris Bulmer during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
resigned from the Board and Malcolm Dalgleish and Dave Singleton Executive directors normally retire on reaching the age determined were appointed.
The Company has used recruitment consultants to search for a Chairman and for additional independent non-executive by the Board from time to time as the retirement age for executive directors and the Nomination Committee has approved job directors.
descriptions for those roles, which for the Chairman includes an assessment of the time commitment expected, always recognising Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years from the Annual General Meeting following their joining the Board, the need for availability in the event of major activity.
The Company intends when possible to appoint a further independent and, subject to performance, there is an expectation of reappointment non-executive director to each of the Remuneration and Audit for a further period of three years.
Exceptionally a non-executive committees, which will bring the Company into compliance with all director may be invited to serve for a further and final three year term.
the provisions of the Combined Code.
Non-executive directors fees are determined by the Board in the absence of the non-executive directors other than the Chairman.
The Board All directors appointed by the Board are appointed after As explained above, from 30 April 2007 until 31 May 2007 the Board consideration of the recommendations of the Nomination Committee, comprised of a non-executive Chairman, three executive directors, and those so appointed must stand for reappointment at the following Annual General Meeting.
Every director must retire at least and two non-executive directors.
From 31 May 2007 until 25 October 2007 the Board comprised the Acting Chairman, three once every three years, and in addition at least one third of the executive directors and one non-executive director.
From 25 October continuing members of the Board must retire by rotation each year.
2007 the Board comprised the Acting Chairman, three executive Retiring directors may seek reappointment if willing and eligible to do directors and two non-executive directors.
The names and short so and if so recommended by the Nomination Committee.
The Chairman will, when proposing the reappointment of a director, biographies of the current Acting Chairman and other directors are set out on page 27. confirm that following formal performance evaluation, the directors performance continues to be effective and he or she continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
