spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 37 share dealing code The Company has a code of securities dealings in relation to its shares The Groups system of internal control and its effectiveness but not and other securities which is based on, and is at least as rigorous as, that of Heatons, the Groups only material associate is monitored and the Model Code as published in the Listing Rules.
reviewed by the Board, the Audit Committee and management, and the Board believes that the Group has maintained throughout the Year The code applies to the directors and to other appropriate employees and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts an of the Group.
effective embedded system of internal control and has complied with the Turnbull guidance.
internal control The directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system of social, environmental and ethical matters internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems of The Group has for many years, recognised the benefits that accrue internal control are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the from responsible employment, environmental and community risk of failing to achieve business objectives.
Details of the Groups activities in this area are set out in the however, provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against Community and Social Responsibility Report on pages 45 to 47. material misstatement or loss.
Members of the Board have responsibility for monitoring the conduct and operations of individual businesses within the Group.
This includes the review and approval of business strategies and plans and the setting of key business performance targets.
The executive management responsible for each business is accountable for the conduct and performance of their business within agreed strategies.
Business plans and budgets for each business include financial and strategic targets against which performance is monitored.
Monitoring includes the examination of and changes to rolling annual and quarterly forecasts, monthly measurement of actual achievement against key performance targets and plans, and weekly reviews of performance.
The Group has clear procedures for the approval and control of expenditure.
Strategic investment decisions involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to formal detailed appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the Board.
Operating expenditure is controlled within each business with approval levels for such expenditure being determined by the individual businesses.
The Group has a formal whistle blowing policy for employees who wish to raise any issues or concerns relating to the Companys or Groups activities on a confidential basis.
Executive management is responsible for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks applicable to their areas of business.
The Group operates a Retail Support Unit which provides strong operational internal audit services in the retail division, and there are procedures in place in the Brands division to monitor and control licencees.
During the Year a big 4 accounting firm was appointed to review certain internal controls and representatives of that firm will attend the relevant part of meetings of the Audit Committee and report directly to the Audit Committee in that respect.
The Board Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders and the audit process, satisfying itself that appropriate systems of internal control and risk management are in place and are serving to identify and manage risk.
The auditors attend all meetings of the Audit Committee, save for those parts of any meeting when the Committee reviews the performance of the auditors and when the Committee is having separate discussions with the Group Finance Director.
