Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 03 Directors Report continued 40 The Chief Executive regularly communicates The company is not aware of any agreements with employees through his blog and receives between shareholders that may result in feedback, in addition to live on-screen restrictions on the transfer of securities question and answer style webchats.
During the year, the senior management held a series of roadshows around the The rules governing the appointment Group to present and discuss the Groups of Directors is set out in the Corporate vision, values and strategy.
Governance Report on pages 41 to 47.
The companys Articles of Association may The company has in place an extensive only be amended by a special resolution range of policies to safeguard the interests at a general meeting of shareholders.
of its employees and potential employees.
In particular, its equal opportunities policy The company is not aware of any significant aims to ensure that all employees and job agreements to which it is party that take applicants are no less fairly treated due effect, alter or terminate upon a change of to age, gender, sexual orientation, race, control of the company following a takeover.
disability or other reasons not justified in law or relevant to performing their job.
The The company is not aware of any contractual company also aims to ensure that employees or other agreements which are essential to have the right skills to deliver the high its business which ought to be disclosed in standards of performance that are necessary this Directors Report.
Detailed information about the companys approach to these Auditors and related matters is set out in its Upon the recommendation of the Audit Corporate Responsibility Report 2008 Committee and approval of the Board, see www.
resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors, and to authorise the Directors Creditor Payment Policy to fix their remuneration, will be proposed It is the companys policy that payment terms at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
are agreed at the outset of a transaction and are adhered to: that bills are paid in Each of the Directors who held office at the accordance with the contract: and that there date of approval of this Directors Report are no alterations to payment terms without confirms that, so far as each Director is prior agreement.
The numbers of suppliers aware, there is no relevant audit information days represented by trade creditors was of which the companys Auditors are unaware: 42 days at 31 March 2008. and each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director Donations to make himself or herself aware of any Charitable donations amounted to 873,000 relevant audit information and to establish 2007 685,000.
There were no payments that the companys Auditors are aware for political purposes.
Financing Policy and Derivatives By Order of the Board The Groups policies together with details of financial instruments and derivatives are Vincent Donnelly set out in notes 1 and 28 to the Financial Company Secretary Statements.
28 May 2008 Additional Information Where not provided elsewhere in the Directors Report, the following provides the additional information required to be disclosed by Part 7 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law for example, insider trading law.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of the company to deal in its shares.
Employees who participate in the Share Incentive Plan whose shares remain in the schemes trust give directions to the trustees to vote on their behalf by way of a Form of Direction.
