are four Non-Executive Directors one of whom is the Senior Independent Corporate Director SID and two Executive Directors.
Details of the Chairmans professional commitments are included in his governance biography.
The Board is satisfied that the other commitments of the Chairman do not interfere with the performance of his duties as Chairman.
The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are independent in character Introduction and judgement and by reference to the Combined Code and that controls are The Board is responsible for delivering value to shareholders and in place to ensure that no single Director has unfettered powers of decision.
other stakeholders, by developing strategy and by leading the Group, The management of operational matters within the Group is delegated ensuring that the appropriate resources, processes and controls are to the Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors and in place to execute that strategy.
Developing and maintaining high certain other senior executives.
The Executive Committee meets monthly.
standards of corporate governance is integral to the delivery of value.
Board evaluation This report explains SSLs corporate governance arrangements During the year, the Board reviewed the process for the evaluation of the and how the Group has applied the Combined Code on Corporate performance of the Board, its committees and the individual Directors.
evaluations have been conducted internally and led by the Chairman, whilst The Board the SID conducted the evaluation of the Chairman.
The Board concluded that There is a written schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
This schedule includes: All Directors were required to complete a detailed questionnaire, which each Director then discussed with the Chairman and with the SID, in relation Approval development of the Groups long-term objectives and to responses about the Chairman.
commercial strategy: The Board considers the annual evaluation to be a valuable process, which Approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and any has contributed to fostering an environment within the Board that is challenging material changes to them: but supportive and encourages focus on the main issues facing the Group.
In 2006 07, the recommendations included a more detailed half-year review Review of performance in the light of the Groups strategy, objectives, on strategy and greater focus on succession planning.
These matters are now business plans and budgets and ensuring that any necessary corrective incorporated into the Boards annual schedule.
action is taken: Dialogue with shareholders Approval of major capital projects, including acquisitions: The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme Approval of contracts which are material strategically, or by reason of size: and involving existing and potential investors within the UK and overseas.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and certain senior executives meet Monitoring the system of internal control and corporate governance.
with institutional investors on a regular basis.
The Chairman and SID make To ensure proper consideration at the appropriate time, the Board themselves available to meet with institutional investors.
The SID attends has a schedule of matters for each meeting.
These matters include: the preliminary and interim results presentations with investors and analysts.
An investor relations report is presented and considered at each Board meeting.
Reports from the Chief Executive and Finance Director: The Board uses the Annual General Meeting, which all Directors attend, to Health and safety: communicate with investors and encourage their participation.
The Directors are available to speak informally with shareholders after the meeting.
Presentations from the heads of the business units: Board Committees Investor relations: and The Board has established three committees.
Each committee operates Regulatory reviews.
in accordance with formal terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and can be viewed on the Companys website, www.
The Board also receives regular updates on relevant legal and Committee chairmen report at the next meeting on the proceedings of the environmental matters.
The table below sets out the number of scheduled Board and The membership and a summary of the principal activities of each Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance by committee is shown in the table on the opposite page.
Policy on auditors independence Safeguarding the independence of the external auditors is paramount Scheduled  and controls are in place to ensure their continued independence.
However, Board Committee Committee Committee there are occasions when services can be more efficiently undertaken by the meetings meetings meetings meetings external auditor and at no risk of impairment of their independence.
The Audit I. Adamson 7 7 Committee has put in place a detailed policy on the provision of services by R. Adam 7 7 4 4 3 3 4 4 the external auditors, that sets out the services which the external auditors are G. Corbett 7 7 3 3 4 4 allowed to carry out on behalf of the Group and those which are prohibited to A. Catalano 7 7 4 4 4 4 them.
Under this policy, external auditors cannot be engaged to provide any M. Moran 7 7 of the following services: S. Murray 7 7 4 4 4 4 P. Read 7 7 4 4 3 3 4 4 Design or implementation of IT systems: G. Watts 7 7 3 3 Valuation: The figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which the individual was a Board member.
When Directors are unable to attend meetings, they Internal audit: and receive the relevant papers and are invited to comment in advance of the meeting.
One Litigation support, legal or corporate finance advice, tax advice if on a wholly of the Board meetings was devoted solely to strategy.
or partly contingent fee basis, recruitment, executive compensation advice, accounting and actuarial valuation.
During the year under review, the Board continued to be led by the Chairman, Gerald Corbett.
Garry Watts, the Chief Executive, is primarily Secondment of senior audit staff to the Company is also prohibited.
responsible for the effective running of the Groups business.
There is a clear, written schedule on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
In addition to the Chairman and Chief Executive, there 34 Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Under this policy, it has been agreed that due to their understanding Receipt of annual compliance statements from all statutory units within of the Groups business and therefore ensuring cost efficiency, the external the Group, stating compliance with Group accounting manuals: and auditors may be engaged for the following non-audit services, for which there An effective Internal Audit function providing independent scrutiny of is a pre-agreed limit for fees not including VAT which do not require prior internal control systems and risk management procedures.
approval from the Audit Committee: Risk management is embedded within the day-to-day activities of Audit-related regulatory reporting including interim review, covenant all executives.
Management of this area is the responsibility of the Group reporting and other audit certificates 100,000 : Operating Committee.
A significant element of this process is the maintenance Further assurance including advice on accounting matters, non-regulatory of a Group Risk Matrix the Matrix.
The Matrix contains both financial and reporting on internal controls or corporate governance, due diligence work non-financial risks, identified through regular top-down and bottom-up reviews.
and environmental audits 100,000 : and The Board believes that the Company operates an effective embedded system of internal control and is confident that it complies with Internal Control Tax compliance and tax advisory services 300,000.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee may approve urgent engagements Further information about the risk management processes is given on not covered by these categories, subsequently notifying the Audit Committee pages 36 to 37. at its next meeting.
A breakdown of fees paid to the external auditors during Combined Code compliance the year is set out on page 56.
During the year the Company complied with the Code except in the Internal control following respect: The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and A4.1 The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, for reviewing its effectiveness, and this is monitored by the Audit Committee.
the SID and a Non-Executive Director.
Whilst the Board considers the Chairman Key elements of this system include: to be independent, membership of this Committee does not consist of a Regular Board meetings with a formal schedule of matters reserved for majority of independent Non-Executive Directors, as defined by the Code.
Board discussion: Going concern Clearly defined organisational structures and appropriate delegation After making enquiries, the Directors believe that the Group and the of authority adherence to which is kept under review : Company have adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Centralised treasury operations operating within defined limits: the financial statements.
Review of the Groups accounting manuals and procedures: Board Committees membership and principal activities Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Chairman Richard Adam Peter Read Peter Read Members Anna Catalano Richard Adam Richard Adam Susan Murray Gerald Corbett Anna Catalano Peter Read Garry Watts Gerald Corbett Susan Murray Attending by invitation Chairman Group HR Director Chief Executive Chief Executive Company Secretary Group HR Director Finance Director Company Secretary External auditor Head of Business Assurance Financial Controller Company Secretary Summary of the principal Review of financial statements, Reviewing the size and composition Reviewing the remuneration policy activities of the Committees including half-year and annual reports, of the Board including the mix of skills for the Executive Directors and the during the year interim management statements and and experience Executive Committee considering the comments of the Consideration of succession issues Developing proposals for an external auditor thereon enhancement to the Performance Recommending the re-election Review of risk management and Share Plan of Directors at the Annual General internal control systems Meeting Further information on the work Review of the Groups internal audit of this committee can be found in processes, including approval of the the Remuneration Report on annual internal audit plan pages 39 to 45 Monitoring the provision of services by the external auditors and an annual appraisal of their effectiveness as auditors see the policy on auditors independence on the previous page 35
