Audit Committee report 7.1 Composition of the Audit Committee 7.4 Policy on the Auditors Providing The Audit Committee currently comprises three independent non-executive Non-Audit Services directors.
At the present time, its members are Garry Watts, Janet Morgan and Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are: Iain Duffin.
Garry Watts joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 July Audit related services - These are services that the auditors must undertake 2007 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee from that date.
Garry or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as auditors.
Such Watts is a former Finance Director and a serving Chief Executive of a FTSE services include formalities relating to bank financing, regulatory reports, 350 company.
The designated Committee member with recent and relevant and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors would generally provide all financial experience is therefore Garry Watts.
such services, subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
In the period from 25 August 2006 to 1 July 2007, the Committee did not Tax consulting - It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each have a Chairman and comprised only two directors.
However, Iain Duffin acted as Chairman at meetings held during that period and at least one other specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate skills independent non-executive director of the Company attended the meetings and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of advisors thus ensuring that at least two independent non-executive directors were for tax consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the present at all meetings.
work being undertaken, subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
General consulting - For other consulting work, the Group will select an 7.2 Operation of the Audit Committee advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and the The Audit Committee met three times during the year and has met a further expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors for general time in June 2008.
It receives reports from major business functions consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work including the Risk Assurance Function internal audit, which is outsourced being undertaken.
The auditors are only permitted to provide general and managed by Deloitte.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
consulting when the Group, the Audit Committee and the auditors are It considers the scope and results of the audit, the half-year and annual satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to the financial statements and the accounting and internal control systems in place audit teams independence or a conflict of interest.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
7.5 Review of Risk Assurance Function The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the The Audit Committee has the delegated responsibility for making Groups website at: http: www.
com scg csr recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and corpgov committees audit.
pdf remuneration of the Group Risk Assurance Function internal auditors.
There have been no instances of disagreements between the Board and the Audit 7.3 Review of External Auditors Committee relating to the Risk Assurance Function.
The Audit Committee has the delegated responsibility for making The Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and between the Group and the Risk Assurance Function.
This review includes a remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of consideration of independence and objectivity, the overall level of fees, the disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the quality of the risk assurance process, and the role of the function in the external auditors.
context of the broader sources of risk assurance.
Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the risk assurance Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship between the function on an annual basis.
This review includes: the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance approval 7.6 Speaking Up Policy of any other fees in excess of 50,000 per annum which are payable to The Audit Committee reviews the Groups Speaking Up policy, which auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: provides a mechanism for employees with serious concerns about the the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: interests of others or the Group to come forward.
The Committee ensures that appropriate arrangements are in place to receive and act proportionately the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which upon a complaint about malpractice.
The Committee takes a particular have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm interest in any reports of possible improprieties in financial reporting.
Any or offices of the same firm are involved: and known instances of fraud affecting the Group are reported to the Audit Committee.
discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit process on an annual basis.
The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors performance during their period in office, recommends re-appointment.
The audit fees of 0.7m for  LLP and non-audit related fees of 0.1m were discussed by the Audit Committee and considered appropriate given the Garry Watts current size of the Group and the level of corporate activity undertaken during Chairman of the Audit Committee the year.
The Committee believes the level and scope of non-audit services does not impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear benefit 25 June 2008 obtained from using professional advisors who have a good understanding of the Groups operations.
Other accounting or consulting firms have been used where the Group recognises them as having particular areas of expertise or where potential conflicts of interest for the auditors are identified.
