Nomination Committee report The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the 8.1 Composition of the Nomination Groups website at http: www.
com scg csr corpgov Committee committees nom.
pdf The Nomination Committee currently comprises four non-executive directors that the Board considers to be independent, Robert Speirs who acts 8.3 Succession Planning Arrangements as Chairman, Ewan Brown, Janet Morgan and Sir George Mathewson.
The Committee also includes, by invitation, the other Non-Executive Directors, as The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of necessary.
succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the longer term.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight from head 8.2 Operation of the Nomination Committee office.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers to develop in The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, some of the Groups smaller business units before progressing to wider and knowledge and experience of the Board, and where appropriate suggesting more responsible roles.
The Group has a history of developing good managers new appointments.
Based on its assessment, the Committee will prepare a who have progressed to take on senior positions within the Group.
The Group description of the role and the required attributes for each particular operates a graduate recruitment programme, and some of the graduates appointment.
The description will include a job specification, the estimate of recruited have gone on to become managing directors of individual business the time commitment expected, and the Groups policy on directors having units, both in the UK and North America.
Potential candidates will be asked to disclose their other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to The Nomination Committee is mindful of the need to ensure appropriate meet what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report any succession arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Nomination significant changes in their other commitments as they arise.
The Committee Committee and the Board seeks to identify new directors and senior managers will identify suitable candidates and make proposals for each appointment, to ensure succession of directors is conducted in a managed way, without although final appointments are the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
significant disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
Potential new non-executive directors are chosen based on a shortlist Whilst the Chairman himself is not involved in the selection of his successor, compiled by the Nomination Committee taking account of known candidates the Committee is mindful of the importance of a smooth transition to a new and candidates suggested by the Groups advisors.
For example, the selection Chairman in due course.
The Committee is confident that a strong successor of Garry Watts was made following a recruitment process that involved the use to the Chairman can be appointed at an appropriate time either from the of external recruitment consultants and the consideration of a number of existing Board or from outside the Group.
Every director met with Garry Watts prior to his formal selection by the Board.
Non-executive directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new appointments, the letter of appointment sets out the expected time commitment.
Robert Speirs Chairman of the Nomination Committee No Director of the Company is currently a chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report The Committee visits operational locations to observe health, safety and 9.1 Composition of the Health, Safety and environmental management in practice.
Committee members attend Environmental Committee meetings of the Safety Committees of individual business units from time to The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is chaired by an time, such as the South West Trains Strategic Safety Group.
independent Non-Executive Director, Janet Morgan, and comprises one other The Committee receives reports on trends in health and safety indicators independent Non-Executive Director, Iain Duffin, and one other Nonacross the Group as well as information on significant accidents involving the Executive Director, Ann Gloag.
Key performance indicators are provided and reviewed in respect of each major operating division.
Training is provided to the Committee on The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee health, safety and environmental matters.
are available on the Groups website at http: www.
com scg csr corpgov committees health.
pdf The Committee liaises with the Remuneration Committee in determining any health and safety objectives to form part of the Executive Directors personal non-financial objectives.
9.2 Operation of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee Details of the Groups health, safety and environmental policies and activities are contained in sections 3.11.4 and 3.11.6 of this Annual Report.
The Committee was established to consider health, safety and environmental issues across the Group and to report regularly to the Board on these matters.
The Committee also approves the Groups overall strategic safety framework.
It has access to internal safety executives and also external consultants.
A new strategic safety framework was approved by the Committee during the year ended 30 April 2007.
Executive management is responsible for ensuring Janet Morgan that local health and safety policies and procedures are consistent with the Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee overall framework.
25 June 2008 Managers from each of the Groups key divisions attend meetings of the Committee from time to time providing the Committee with an opportunity to question and challenge management on health, safety and environmental matters.
