Corporate governance report Browns long association with the Group enables him to provide a robust and 6.1 Introduction effective challenge to management because of the sound and detailed The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups knowledge of the Groups business that he has developed.
The Board believes activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate governance that Ewan Browns length of service enhances his effectiveness as a nonpractices within the Group in conformity with the Combined Code on executive director and that he remains independent in character and Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
In recognition of the factors suggested by the Combined Code This section of the report discusses Stagecoach Groups corporate governance for determining independence, Ewan Brown stands for annual re-election as arrangements and management structures.
It also includes the disclosures a director.
In addition, Ewan Brown does not serve on the Remuneration recommended by the Combined Code, and describes how the principles of Committee or the Audit Committee.
In assessing independence, the Board good corporate governance that are set out in the Combined Code have been takes into account the wider composition and balance of the Board as a applied.
In line with best practice, separate reports are provided from each of whole.
the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Health, Safety and In determining the independence of non-executive directors, the Board Environmental Committee and Remuneration Committee.
In particular the Board satisfies itself on the following questions: 6.2 Compliance with the Combined Code Does the director provide a robust and effective challenge to executive The Directors believe that the Group currently complies with all of the management?
recommendations contained in the Combined Code.
Is the director prepared to challenge others beliefs, assumptions and For the first two months of the year ended 30 April 2008, the Company did viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
not fully comply with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
Russell Walls stepped down as a non-executive director during the year ended 30 Does the director effectively contribute to constructive debate by the April 2007 and the Group appointed Garry Watts as a non-executive director Board and its Committees?
For the period from 25 August 2006 to 1 July 2007: Is the director willing to defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints for The Audit Committee did not have a Chairman and comprised only two the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
directors, neither of whom had recent and relevant financial experience.
However, Iain Duffin acted as Chairman at meetings and at least one of the Does the director have a sufficiently sound and detailed knowledge of the Companys other independent non-executive directors who had recent Groups business that enables him or her to effectively question strategy and relevant financial experience was also in attendance at all meetings of and executive managements running of the business?
This ensured that at least two independent non-executive directors attended each meeting.
6.4 Operation of the Board The Remuneration Committee comprised only two directors.
However, at The Board is generally scheduled to meet six times each year.
Additional least one of the Companys other independent non-executive directors meetings of the Board are held to consider matters arising between attended meetings of the Committee thus ensuring at least three scheduled Board meetings, where a decision of the Board is required prior to independent non-executive directors attended each meeting.
If the criteria for determining independence suggested by the Combined Code were applied, fewer than half of each of the Board and Nomination The Chairman ensures that meetings of the Board and shareholders are Committee in each case excluding the Chairman were independent.
properly conducted and is responsible for setting and moving forward the However, the Boards own view was that at least half of the Board and Boards agenda.
Leadership of the Board by the Chairman is not the same as Nomination Committee excluding the Chairman was independent, the leadership required from the Group Chief Executive to turn the Boards because it regards Ewan Brown as independent.
strategic and policy decisions into actions.
The Group Chief Executive has dayto-day responsibility for all business of the Group and carries out the agreed Notwithstanding the above, the Board believes that it and its Committees strategy and policies of the Board.
The split of the Chairmans and Chief remained effective during this period.
The appointment of Garry Watts on Executives responsibilities is in writing and has been approved by the Board.
1 July 2007 remedied the above areas of non-compliance with the Combined Code.
The Directors biographies appear on pages 20 and 21 of this Annual Report and illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors bring an 6.3 Composition of the Board independent viewpoint and create an overall balance.
The Combined Code suggests that independent non-executive directors should make up at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
The The Executive and Non-Executive Directors have a complementary range of Companys Board comprises nine directors.
Excluding the Chairman, the financial, operational and entrepreneurial experience that ensures no one Board considers that there are five independent non-executive directors.
director or viewpoint is dominant in the decision-making process.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without the Independent Executive Directors being present.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors, Independent Non-Executive Other Chairman Director Director led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, meet without the Chairman at least annually.
Robert Speirs Chairman Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director All the Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of Iain Duffin Non-Executive Director the Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary Sir George and may take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups Mathewson Non-Executive Director expense where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their Janet Morgan Non-Executive Director duties as directors.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal Garry Watts Non-Executive Director is a matter for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the Board for ensuring Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director the Board procedures are complied with.
Brian Souter Chief Executive Martin Griffiths Finance Director All the Directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the Annual Ewan Brown, one of the five independent non-executive directors, has served General Meeting following their appointment and all the Directors are required on the Board since 1988 and is a non-executive director of Noble Grossart, to stand for re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
Nonwhich is an advisor to the Company.
The Company recognises and Executive Directors, including the Chairman, who are not considered by the understands investor concerns over longer-serving non-executive directors Board to be independent, or are considered independent but have served on but nevertheless continues to regard Ewan Brown as independent.
Ewan the Board for more than nine years, submit themselves for annual re-election.
page 26 | Stagecoach Group plc 62880 StCchV13 p1to39:62880 StCchV13 p1to39 1 7 08 17:48 Page 27 Each director receives induction training on appointment and subsequently The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and its such training or briefings as are considered necessary to keep abreast of committees.
Each director has assessed the effectiveness of the Board and matters affecting their roles as directors.
The Chairman endeavours to ensure each committee of which he or she is a member.
that all the Directors including any newly appointed directors attend the The assessment of effectiveness included consideration of: Annual General Meeting, providing an opportunity for shareholders to meet the Directors.
The effectiveness of the formal Board and committee meetings: The number of full Board meetings during the year was five.
The full Board The nature and extent of the Boards interaction with the management of typically meets once a year at an operational location and regular verbal the Group: communication is maintained by the Chairman between meetings to ensure The timeliness, relevance and accuracy of the information provided to the all directors are well informed on strategic and operational issues.
Board and its committees: The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with The allocation of the Boards time between differing priorities including principal responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment the time spent on strategic considerations relative to other matters: and policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and risk management procedures of senior management, to ensure that there are The composition of the Board and its committees.
proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has concluded disposals.
The Directors have full and timely access to information with Board that overall the Board and its committees continue to operate in an effective papers distributed in advance of meetings.
The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under review and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to improve the Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process and better 6.7 Audit Committee control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to committees.
The Audit Committee currently comprises three independent non-executive directors.
It receives reports from major business functions including the Risk Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
It any director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about the considers the scope and results of the audit, the interim and annual financial running of the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in statements and the accounting and internal control systems in place the minutes.
It is also the Groups policy that where a director resigns, the throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, director is asked to provide a written statement to the Chairman of any independence and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
concerns leading to his or her resignation.
The Audit Committee report is set out on page 30.
6.5 Operational management of the Group The Board delegates the operational management of the Group to the Group 6.8 Remuneration Committee Chief Executive and Group Finance Director Executive Directors.
The The Remuneration Committee currently comprises three independent nonExecutive Directors maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly face-toexecutive directors.
It makes recommendations to the Board for ensuring face or in videoconferences with non-board senior management.
There are that the Executive Directors and senior management remuneration is three principal operating divisions UK Bus: headed by a Managing Director, appropriate to attract, motivate and retain executive directors and senior North America: headed by two Chief Operating Officers and UK Rail: headed managers of the quality needed to run the Groups business successfully.
The by a Chief Executive which each comprise a varying number of autonomous constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee is detailed in the business units, each headed by a chairman or managing director who is Directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 38. responsible for the day-to-day performance of the business unit.
Each chairman or managing director is supported by his her own management 6.9 Nomination Committee teams.
The Nomination Committee currently comprises four non-executive A Rail Business Development Committee, comprising the two Group directors one of whom is the Chairman of the Company that the Board Executive Directors and other senior management, oversees the performance considers to be independent.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the and development of the Groups rail business, including bidding on new rail balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, and where franchises.
A Chief Executive heads the Groups joint venture, Virgin Rail Group.
The The Nomination Committee report is set out on page 31.
Chief Executive of the Rail division and the Company Secretary attended Virgin Rail Group board meetings during the year.
6.10 Health, Safety and Environmental Committee 6.6 Performance evaluation The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is chaired by an independent The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each Non-Executive Director, Janet Morgan, and comprises one other independent individual Board member: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed by the Non-Executive Director, Iain Duffin, and one other Non-Executive Director, Ann Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Committee considers health, safety and environmental issues across Independent Non-Executive Director co-ordinates the Boards assessment of the Group and reports regularly to the Board on these matters.
the performance of the Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report is set out on Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman being present.
The Chairman obtains feedback from each individual director on the performance of the Board and other Board members this involves the completion of a questionnaire and a follow-up discussion.
In the same way, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director obtains feedback from each individual director on the performance of the Chairman.
A similar process is undertaken to assess the performance of each of the Boards committees.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 27 62880 StCchV13 p1to39:62880 StCchV13 p1to39 1 7 08 17:48 Page 28 Corporate governance report 6.11 Individual director participation at meetings The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings, meetings of committees and the Annual General Meeting by director during the year ended 30 April 2008: Health, Safety PARTICIPATION Full Board Audit Remuneration and Environmental Nomination Annual General IN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Robert Speirs 5 5 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 1 1 Brian Souter 5 5 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 Martin Griffiths 5 5 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 Ewan Brown 5 5 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 1 1 Iain Duffin 553 3 3 333 n a n a 11 Ann Gloag 5 5 n a n a n a n a 3 3 n a n a 1 1 Sir George Mathewson 5 5 n a n a 2 3 n a n a 1 1 1 1 Janet Morgan 553 3 2 233 1 1 11 Garry Watts appointed 1 July 2007 4 4 2211 n a n a n a n a 1 1 6.12 Relations with shareholders 6.13 Risk management The Board endeavours to present a balanced and understandable assessment The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing of the Groups position and prospects in communications with shareholders.
the significant risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, and the Board considers that the process accords with the Turnbull Guidance on The Board considers communications with shareholders to be extremely internal control.
The Group holds periodic meetings with representatives of major institutional shareholders, other fund managers and representatives of the The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed on pages financial press.
The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of the The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part of full-year and interim results and meetings with institutional investors in the business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in some UK and overseas.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after presentations cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to identify and to ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being taken are being manage risk.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for establishing effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
During the and maintaining the Groups system of internal control, and for reviewing its year, written responses are given to letters or e-mails received from effectiveness.
Although the system can provide only reasonable and not shareholders and all shareholders can receive annual reports.
absolute assurance of material misstatement or loss, the Groups system is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that any risks or The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through briefings from the Chairman and the Executive Directors, reports from the problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Companys brokers and reports from the Companys Financial PR consultants.
Group has established an ongoing process of risk review and certification by The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders the business heads of each operating unit.
where contact through the normal channels is inappropriate, or has failed to Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its potential Private and institutional shareholders are welcome to attend and participate at severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers whether it is the Annual General Meeting and any other general meetings.
The Group aims appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully controlled or mitigated to ensure that all the Directors, including the chairmen of the Audit, by the Group.
Remuneration, Nomination and Health, Safety and Environmental The Groups risk management process was embedded throughout the Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
businesses during the financial year ended 30 April 2008 and up to the date of The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to question the Chairman and other directors on a variety of topics and further the approval of this report.
The Board has carried out a review of the information is provided at the Annual General Meeting on the Groups effectiveness of the Groups internal control environment and such reviews are principal business activities.
It is the Companys policy to propose a separate supported on an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit Committee.
The resolution at the Annual General Meeting for each substantially separate issue.
Board is satisfied that processes are in place to ensure that risks are Resolutions are proposed annually in respect of the financial statements and appropriately managed.
At each Annual General Meeting, the The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal control Chairman reports, after each show of hands, details of all proxy votes lodged and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains ultimate for and against each resolution, and the number of votes withheld.
Details of responsibility for these.
The Board believes that it is important that these the proxy votes are also published on the Groups website at processes remain rooted throughout the business and the managing director http: www.
com scg ir shareholder agm.
The Company and of each operating unit is responsible for the internal control framework within its registrars have established procedures to ensure that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior management is ongoing and has been considered at several levels, with each division maintaining a separate risk profile.
page 28 | Stagecoach Group plc 62880 StCchV13 p1to39:62880 StCchV13 p1to39 1 7 08 17:48 Page 29 The Group Risk Assurance or internal audit function, which is outsourced to regular reporting to the Board and or its Committees on specific matters and managed by Deloitte, reports to the Audit Committee and is utilised in including updated key risks, taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury monitoring risk management processes to determine whether internal management, foreign exchange, interest and commodity exposures.
The controls are effectively designed and properly implemented.
A risk-based Board regulates treasury management policies and procedures.
approach is applied to the implementation and monitoring of controls.
The defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the integrity and including due diligence requirements where material businesses are being improving where possible the Groups risk management process in the context acquired or divested.
of the Groups overall goals.
each operating unit maintains internal controls and procedures The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as external appropriate to the business.
A written certificate is provided at least audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are annually by the management of each business confirming that they have recommended by the external auditors.
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year.
Virgin Rail Group has its own audit committee and internal audit function.
The a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved and Groups risk management process does not specifically cover Virgin Rail Group, which is subject to regular monitoring.
but the Group maintains an overview of Virgin Rail Groups business risk management process through representation on the board and audit As might be expected, a number of minor internal control weaknesses were committee.
Stagecoach management representatives also meet regularly with identified by these procedures and will be monitored and addressed.
None of representatives of Virgin Rail Group to ensure that the joint venture follows the weaknesses have resulted in any material losses, contingencies or appropriate risk management procedures.
uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups Annual Report.
This process is considered to be an integral part of the maintenance and improvement of our risk management procedures.
6.14 Internal control The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of 6.15 Pension schemes the system of internal control of the Group during the year.
The key The assets of the Groups pension schemes are held under trust, separate procedures, which the Directors have established, are as follows: from the assets of the Group and are invested with a number of independent fund managers.
There are ten trustees for the principal UK scheme of whom an annual budgeting process with periodic re-forecasting of out-turn, four are employee representatives nominated by the members on a regional identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets are presented to a basis and one is a pensioner trustee.
The chairman of the trustees of the panel consisting of executive directors and or senior managers by each principal UK scheme is a professional trustee who served for eight years as a business units management team, before being approved by the Board.
fund member elected representative on the National Association of Pension reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing income Funds investment council.
He also sits independently on two industry-wide statement, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
Group schemes, as a Department of Trade and Industry appointed trustee of the management monitors the results throughout each financial year.
Mineworkers Pension Scheme and as an elected representative of all railway employers on the board of the Railways Pension Scheme.
He is the current a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and Chairman of the Railways Pension Scheme trustees.
The other trustees of the business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
principal UK scheme include senior Group and UK Bus executives.
third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas where significant inherent risks have been identified, such as treasury  LLP PwC acted as the actuary for The Yorkshire management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy and competition Traction Company Limited Pension Plan up until the scheme was merged policy.
into the principal UK Scheme on 1 April 2008.
PwC do not act as actuaries or advisors to any of the other principal UK pension schemes.
a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient operations.
A Pensions Oversight Committee was in operation throughout the year.
This Committee is chaired by a non-executive director and also comprises one control over the activities of joint ventures and associated undertakings executive director and other members of senior management.
The through Stagecoach representation on the boards of the entities together Committee operates at a strategic level and its remit covers all matters with regular contact between Stagecoach management and the affecting the Groups pension schemes from the perspective of the Groups management of the relevant entities.
shareholders and other stakeholders, and it will consider, develop and a performance management appraisal system covers the Groups senior propose recommendations to the Board in respect of such issues as may management and is based on agreed financial and other performance arise.
The Committee reviews pension scheme funding, investment strategy, objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
risk management, internal controls surrounding pension matters and the significant emphasis is placed on cash flow management.
Bank balances related administration for all of the employee pension schemes of the Group.
are reviewed on a daily basis and cash flows are compared to budget on a four-weekly basis.
