Corporate governance Tate & Lyle is committed to high standards of corporate There are eight scheduled Board meetings each year.
governance, business integrity and professionalism in the Two of these meetings usually take place at an operating way it conducts its activities.
Throughout the year ended company.
The Board also meets off-site for a day each 31 March 2008, the Company complied with the Combined year to consider the Groups strategy.
In the year ended Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2006 by 31 March 2008, in addition to the eight scheduled meetings, the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
The paragraphs four further meetings were held primarily to approve such below, together with the directors remuneration report matters as the publication of trading updates and interim on pages 82 to 92, provide details of how the Company management statements.
Attendance at the eight applies the principles and complies with the provisions scheduled meetings was 100%, other than one meeting of the Code.
where one director was absent.
Board of directors The attendance of individual directors at all the Board The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the meetings held during the year which they were eligible to success of the Company and for providing entrepreneurial attend is shown in the table below.
Meetings attended leadership within a framework of prudent and effective Sir David Lees, Chairman 12 12 controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys strategic aims and ensures that Elisabeth Airey 10 12 Richard Delbridge 11 12 necessary financial and human resources are in place to enable these objectives to be met and undertakes reviews Iain Ferguson 12 12 Evert Henkes 12 12 of management performance.
In addition, the Board sets the Companys values and standards and ensures that Stanley Musesengwa 12 12 Kai Nargolwala until 31 December 2007 6 8 its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
John Nicholas 11 12 Stuart Strathdee 11 12 The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to Robert Walker 10 12 Dr Barry Zoumas 12 12 it for its decision.
This schedule is reviewed annually and includes approval of: In the few instances where a director is unable to attend Group strategy: a Board or Committee meeting, his or her comments on annual budget and operating plans: the briefing papers to be considered at that meeting are major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments: given in advance to the relevant Chairman.
annual and half-year financial results and interim management statements: The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that safety and environmental policies: Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules appointments to the Board and as Company Secretary: and regulations are complied with.
All directors have access senior management structure, responsibilities and to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, succession plans: whose appointment or removal is a matter for the Board treasury policies: as a whole.
In addition, there is a formal procedure in place system of internal control and risk management: and whereby, in the furtherance of their duties, directors can dividend policy.
obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees, which operate within clearly defined terms Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to and all directors participate in discussing the strategy, the Board Committees are given on pages 63 to 66. trading and financial performance and risk management of the Company.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 61 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR How we run the business Corporate governance All substantive agenda items have comprehensive briefing The non-executive directors have a wide range of skills and papers, which are circulated five days before the meeting.
knowledge and combine broad business and commercial Members of executive management attend Board meetings experience with independent and objective judgement.
and make presentations to the Board on a regular basis.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its non-executive directors and is satisfied that these do not The chart below shows the approximate time the Board has conflict with their duties as directors of the Company.
taken to consider agenda items during the year separated Changes to the commitments of the non-executive into general categories.
directors are reported to the Board.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Board allocation of time non-executive directors are available for inspection at Year ended 31 March 2008 the Companys registered office and will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Governance 9% Operations Re-election of directors 12% Strategy The Companys Articles of Association require the 51% re-election of one-third of the Board or the nearest whole number below one-third at each AGM.
All directors are Finance and risk subject to re-election at least once every three years.
Any 23% directors appointed by the Board since the last AGM must Capital expenditure stand for re-election at the next AGM.
Any non-executive and investment directors who have served for more than nine years 5% will be subject to annual re-election.
The names of the directors retiring and standing for The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover re-election at the 2008 AGM are set out on page 80. in respect of legal proceedings and other claims against Further details are given in the letter from the Chairman its directors.
to shareholders in relation to the 2008 AGM.
Chairman and Chief Executive Information, induction and professional development The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are The Chairman, with the assistance of the Company separated and their responsibilities are clearly established, Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that the directors set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant is responsible for the leadership and workings of the Board matters.
On appointment to the Board, directors receive and ensuring its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive for a comprehensive induction programme, which includes site the running of the business and the implementation of visits and meetings with senior management across the Board strategy and policy.
New directors also receive a pack of background reading about the Group and details The significant current commitments of the Chairman, of Board procedures and other governance-related matters.
Sir David Lees, are set out in his biography on page 59.
Major shareholders have been offered the opportunity The Board is satisfied that his other commitments do not to meet new non-executive directors as part of their unduly restrict him from carrying out his duties effectively.
Board balance and independence Training and updates on particular issues are arranged for The Board currently comprises the Chairman, who has no directors, as appropriate, on an ongoing basis, taking into executive responsibilities, four executive directors and five account their individual qualifications and experience.
Company Secretary also helps directors to undertake any other professional development they consider necessary With the exception of the Chairman, who is presumed under or desirable to assist them in carrying out their duties as the Code not to be independent, the Board considers all the directors or as members of the relevant Board Committees.
non-executive directors to be independent.
Visits to external events or organisations are also arranged for the Board to help the non-executive directors in Richard Delbridge is the Senior Independent Director and is particular to gain a deeper insight into the Groups available to shareholders if they have any issues or concerns.
The names and biographical details of the current directors are given on page 59.
62 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Performance evaluation Shareholder communications In previous years, the Boards performance evaluation has The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Director been an internal exercise led by the Chairman.
In 2008, of Investor Relations maintain a regular programme of visits however, to ensure that the annual evaluation process and presentations to major institutional shareholders both remained fresh and relevant, the Board engaged Dr Tracy in the UK and overseas.
The Chairman and Senior Long of Boardroom Review to act as an independent Independent Director participate in this programme as facilitator.
The evaluation process comprised of a written appropriate.
The Investor Relations Department provides questionnaire supplemented by one-to-one interviews with the Board with a detailed report on discussions with major each director and the Company Secretary.
Dr Long also institutional shareholders each time it meets.
In addition, attended a Board meeting as an observer.
Dr Longs report all directors receive copies of analysts reports on the was presented to the Board as a whole for discussion.
Company, and the Board is briefed periodically by the Companys financial advisers on investors perceptions The review found that the Board continues to operate in an of Tate & Lyle and its investor relations activities.
However, a number of recommendations were made for improvements such as to the timing and The non-executive directors are encouraged to attend location of Board meetings, the format and content of presentations to analysts and shareholders, and in particular Board papers, ways by which the non-executive directors the presentations that take place on the publication of the can improve their understanding of the business and its Companys annual and half-year results.
operating environment, and succession planning.
Actions are being taken to address each of the matters raised The Chairman provides feedback to the Board on any by the evaluation.
matters raised with him by major shareholders.
Some 250 shareholders normally attend the AGM and are invited to The performance of the individual directors is evaluated by ask questions and meet informally with the directors after the Chairman.
Following this years evaluation process, the the formal proceedings have ended.
The level of proxy Chairman concluded that each director continues to make votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with an effective contribution to the work of the Board, is well the level of abstentions, are announced to shareholders at prepared and informed concerning items to be considered the AGM and are published on our website.
by the Board, and that their commitment to the role remains strong.
The Company aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment in all its reports to the public During the year, the non-executive directors met together and to regulators.
Key announcements, financial reports without the Chairman present, under the chairmanship of and other information about the Group can be found on the Senior Independent Director, to appraise the Chairmans the Companys website at www.
performance the Senior Independent Director having first sought the views of the executive directors.
In addition, Board Committees the Chairman held a private meeting with the non-executive There are four main Board Committees: Chairmans, directors to appraise the Chief Executives performance and Nominations, Remuneration, and Audit.
The terms of to address any other matters the non-executive directors reference of each Committee are reviewed annually by wished to raise.
the Board, are available upon request and are on the Companys website at www.
The Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees each also held an evaluation of their work and effectiveness The Committees are provided with sufficient resources during the year, the results of which were reported to the to undertake their duties through access to the services Board by the respective Committee Chairmen.
The reviews of the Company Secretariat and, if deemed necessary, can concluded that each Committee was operating in an obtain independent professional advice at the Companys effective manner.
The Company Secretary, Robert Gibber, is Secretary to each Board Committee.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 63 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR How we run the business Corporate governance Chairmans Committee The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined The members of the Committee during the year, together by the Board, excluding the non-executive directors.
The with a record of their attendance at meetings that they were directors remuneration report on pages 82 to 92 provides eligible to attend, are set out below.
more information on the Companys executive remuneration policy and practice, and on the working of the Committee.
Meetings attended Sir David Lees, Chairman 7 7 Nominations Committee Elisabeth Airey 7 7 The members of the Committee during the year, together Richard Delbridge 7 7 with a record of their attendance at meetings that they were Iain Ferguson 7 7 eligible to attend, are set out below.
Evert Henkes 7 7 Meetings attended Kai Nargolwala until 31 December 2007 5 5 Robert Walker 6 7 Sir David Lees, Chairman 4 4 Dr Barry Zoumas 7 7 Elisabeth Airey 4 4 Richard Delbridge 4 4 Iain Ferguson 4 4 The Committee comprises the non-executive directors Evert Henkes 4 4 and the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the Kai Nargolwala until 31 December 2007 3 3 Chairman of the Board.
The Committee meets before each Robert Walker 4 4 Board meeting, as required, and provides an opportunity Dr Barry Zoumas 4 4 for the Chairman and Chief Executive to brief and obtain the views of the non-executive directors on specific issues.
The Committee comprises the non-executive directors Remuneration Committee and the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the The members of the Committee during the year, together Chairman of the Board except when the Committee is with a record of their attendance at meetings that they were dealing with the appointment of a successor to the eligible to attend, are set out below.
Chairman of the Board when the Senior Independent Director chairs the Committee.
The main responsibilities Meetings attended of the Committee are to: Evert Henkes, Chairman 7 7 Elisabeth Airey 7 7 review the size and composition of the Board, including Richard Delbridge 7 7 the planning of succession to the Board and the Sir David Lees 7 7 leadership needs of the Group generally: Kai Nargolwala until 31 December 2007 4 4 make recommendations to the Board on candidates for Robert Walker 6 7 appointment as executive and non-executive directors Dr Barry Zoumas 7 7 and as Company Secretary, taking into account the balance of the Board and the required blend of skills and experience: The Committee meets as required, usually before each make recommendations to the Board on the appropriate Board meeting.
The Committee consists of the independent processes for the appointment of the Chairman of non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Board.
the Board: review annually the performance of each member of The Chairman of the Board, Sir David Lees, was appointed the Group Management Committee and to report on as a member of the Committee from 1 April 2007 as that review to the Remuneration Committee: and permitted under the Code published in June 2006. make recommendations to the Board on the nomination The Board considers that the Chairmans membership of of the Senior Independent Director, the reappointment of this Committee helps to ensure that the Companys non-executive directors upon the expiry of their term of remuneration policy is aligned with its strategic objectives.
office and the proposed re-election of directors retiring by rotation at the AGM.
The Committee determines the individual remuneration packages of each executive director and other members When recruiting non-executive directors, the Committee of the Group Management Committee.
This includes base considers the particular skills, knowledge and experience salary, bonus, long-term incentives, benefits and terms of that would most benefit the Board, and external recruitment employment, including those upon which their service may consultants are engaged to assist in the recruitment process.
Additionally, the Committee approves the base salary, long-term incentives and benefits of certain other senior executives.
In consultation with the Chief Executive, the Committee also determines the remuneration of the Chairman.
64 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 No new non-executive or executive directors were The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: appointed during the year.
Kai Nargolwala resigned as a non-executive director from 31 December 2007, following monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year financial his appointment as Chief Executive Officer of the Asiastatements and any formal announcements relating to Pacific Region for the Credit Suisse Group.
Mr Nargolwala the Companys financial performance, paying particular stood down from the Board as the requirement of his new attention to significant reporting judgements contained role at Credit Suisse meant that he was no longer able to therein, including critical accounting policies and practices: commit the required time to travel to the UK on a regular review the Groups internal financial controls and its basis to attend Tate & Lyle Board meetings.
Despite internal control and risk management systems: Mr Nargolwalas departure, the Committee considered review and monitor the external auditors independence that the Board continued to have a strong mix of skills and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, and experience and that a replacement non-executive taking into consideration relevant UK professional and director was not currently required.
regulatory requirements: make recommendations to the Board, for submission Audit Committee to shareholders for their approval in general meeting, The members of the Committee during the year, together in relation to the appointment, reappointment and with a record of their attendance at meetings which they removal of the external auditors and to approve the were eligible to attend, are set out below.
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: Meetings attended monitor and review the effectiveness of the Global Audit Richard Delbridge, Chairman 4 4 and Assurance function: Elisabeth Airey 4 4 develop and implement a policy on the engagement of Evert Henkes 3 4 the external auditors to supply non-audit services: and Kai Nargolwala until 31 December 2007 3 3 review arrangements by which employees may, Robert Walker 1 4 in confidence, raise concerns about possible Dr Barry Zoumas 4 4 improprieties in matters of financial reporting, financial control or other matters.
The Committee consists solely of independent nonDuring the year and up to the date of this annual report, the executive directors.
Following the AGM on 23 July 2008, Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in Richard Delbridge will retire as Chairman of the Committee its terms of reference by undertaking the following work: and will be succeeded by Elisabeth Airey.
Richard Delbridge will continue to serve as a member of the Committee.
meeting prior to the Board meeting at which the annual report and financial statements, the half-year report and All the Committee members have extensive management interim management statements were approved.
In doing experience in large international organisations and the so, the Committee reviewed significant accounting policies, Chairman, Richard Delbridge, who is a chartered financial reporting issues and judgements and reports accountant, is a former group finance director of a FTSE from the external auditors: 100 company.
The new Chairman, Elisabeth Airey, is a reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process, former finance director of Monument Oil and Gas plc.
the external auditors strategy and plan for the audit, and the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence The Committee meets four times each year.
The Chairman, of the external auditors: Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Global agreeing the terms of engagement and fee of the external Audit and Assurance and other members of the senior auditors for the audit and recommending to the Board management team as invited by the Committee, together that  LLP be proposed to with the external auditors, usually attend meetings.
The shareholders at the AGM for reappointment as external minutes of each meeting are circulated to all members of auditors to the Company: the Board.
Both the Head of Global Audit and Assurance reviewing the policy on auditor independence and the and the external auditors have access to the Chairman of provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: the Committee outside of formal Committee meetings.
receiving and considering regular reports from the Head of Global Audit and Assurance on the Groups risk The Committee maintains a formal calendar of items management system, findings from reviews of internal that are to be considered at each Committee meeting and financial controls, including those relating to tax risk and within the annual audit cycle to ensure that its work is in line compliance, and the remit, organisation, annual plan and with the requirements of the Code.
resources of the Global Audit and Assurance function: Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 65 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR How we run the business Corporate governance undertaking a review of the effectiveness of the Global The procedure for the provision of non-audit related Audit and Assurance function.
The review in 2008 was services by the external auditors is governed by a generally positive but some areas were identified where schedule appended to the policy on auditor independence.
improvements to processes and practices could be This schedule categorises such services between: made, such as to further align the scope of the functions work with the Groups risk assessment process, and those services which the external auditors are these are being implemented: permitted to provide: reviewing the Committees terms of reference and its those services which the external auditors are not effectiveness, and recommending changes to the Board permitted to provide: and as a result of this review.
The review in 2008 concluded those services which require approval of the that no substantive amendments to the terms of Audit Committee before the external auditors reference were required and that the Committee had can be appointed.
fulfilled its role and responsibilities appropriately: reviewing the annual report disclosure items relevant to A report is made to the Committee each time it meets the Committee, including the going concern statement setting out the non-audit services provided by the external and the reports on risk management and internal control: auditors during the year and the fees charged.
Details of the reviewing the potential impact on the Groups financial amounts paid to the external auditors are given in Note 7 statements of significant corporate governance and to the Group financial statements on page 110.
Having accounting matters: undertaken a review of the non-audit related services reviewing the findings of the external auditors, their provided during the year, the Committee is satisfied that management letters on accounting procedures and they did not prejudice the external auditors independence.
internal financial controls and audit representation letters: meeting separately with the Chief Executive, Group Risk management Finance Director, external auditors and the Head of The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Global Audit and Assurance in order to understand Groups system of internal control and risk management.
any concerns relevant to the Audit Committee that The schedule of matters reserved to the Board ensures that they might have: the directors control, among other matters, all significant reviewing procedures under which employees may, in strategic, financial and organisational issues.
confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting, financial control or The Groups enterprise-wide risk management and other matters: and reporting process, which was developed, defined and rolled reviewing an annual report on the Groups systems of out across the Group by a risk management team, assists internal control and its effectiveness, and reporting the management throughout the Group to identify, assess and results of the review to the Board.
The process, which is designed to deliver competitive advantage for the Group, involves the During the year, training was also provided to Board and identification and prioritisation of key risks through an Committee members outside the scheduled meetings on ongoing programme of workshops, facilitated by the risk subjects of particular relevance, such as the impact of management team, held around the Group.
During the changes to accounting standards.
year, 150 employees attended 12 risk workshops held throughout the Group in order to identify risks to the The Committee operates a policy to safeguard the business.
The identified risks then cascade up through objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
functional and divisional levels to the Group Management This policy sets out certain disclosure requirements by Committee.
This culminates in the identification of the the external auditors to the Committee, restrictions on the Groups key business, financial, operational and compliance employment of the external auditors former employees, risks with associated action plans and controls to mitigate partner rotation and procedures for the approval of them where possible and to the extent deemed non-audit services by the external auditors.
During the appropriate taking account of costs and benefits.
year, the Committee reviewed the processes that  LLP have in place to safeguard Under the process, senior executive management confirms their independence and received a letter from them to the Audit Committee at least twice a year that these confirming that, in their opinion, they remained independent.
key risks are being managed appropriately within their operations and controls have been examined and are effective.
Responsibility for managing each key risk and the associated mitigating controls is allocated to an individual executive within each division.
Changes in the status of the key risks and changes to the risk matrix are reported regularly to executive management and to the Board.
66 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 The Board intends to conduct a review of the risk the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director management and reporting process in the year ending submit written reports to each Board meeting, 31 March 2009. which include consideration of changing threats and opportunities within the business.
The standard Internal control Board review of investments and disposals includes The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for identification of major risks that could affect the the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing outcome of each project, with a sensitivity analysis: its effectiveness.
The Board delegates to executive the Company has defined procedures for the management the responsibility for designing, operating authorisation and project management of capital and monitoring both the system and the maintenance expenditure and investment, granting of guarantees, of effective internal control in each of the businesses that trading and hedging of currencies and commodities comprise the Group.
These systems of internal control are and use of treasury products: and designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can formal annual reports and presentations are received by only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance the Board on certain areas of special risk.
These include against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of laws insurance, treasury management, commodity trading, or regulations.
All the material joint ventures that the Group pensions, safety and environmental issues.
is party to currently follow the Groups formal systems of internal control and their internal control procedures The Audit Committee periodically reviews the effectiveness are regularly reviewed by the Groups Global Audit and of the system of internal control through reports from the Assurance function.
The systems of internal control are external auditors and the Global Audit and Assurance based on a process of identifying, evaluating and managing function.
The Global Audit and Assurance function follows risks and include the risk management processes set out a planned programme of reviews that are aligned to the above.
These accord with the guidance in the Turnbull risks existing in the Groups businesses.
It has the authority Report and were in place throughout the year and up to to review any relevant aspect of the business.
the date of the signing of this annual report.
The key risks that might hinder the achievement of the Groups business The Board, with assistance of the Audit Committee, objectives are managed, controlled and monitored by has conducted an annual assessment of the effectiveness the following processes: of the systems of risk management and internal control during the financial year and up to the date of this annual the Groups businesses operate under mandatory report.
The review, which is co-ordinated by the Global written policies and procedural manuals to provide an Audit and Assurance function, includes a Group-wide appropriate control environment.
The Group policies certification that appropriate internal controls are in place and procedures set out the Groups commitment to and on the state of their effectiveness.
The internal audit competence, integrity and ethical values.
These policies function monitors and selectively checks the results of are reviewed by the Board annually and changes are this exercise, ensuring that the representations made are made as appropriate to enhance existing control consistent with the results of the departments work during procedures: the year.
Where weaknesses have been identified, plans key strategic risks are addressed through the Groups for correcting them are also reported.
The results of this process of preparation of plans by each operating unit exercise are summarised for the Audit Committee and the and the compilation of these risks in the Groups Board.
In the event that any significant losses were to be operating plan: incurred during the year as a result of the failure of controls, there is a comprehensive annual planning and financial a detailed analysis would be provided to the Audit reporting system comparing results with plan and the Committee and the Board.
The Board confirms that where previous year on a monthly and cumulative basis.
The significant weaknesses were identified in relation to the process of planning, budgeting and making short-term review conducted during the year, necessary remedial forecasts, which is subject to an ongoing review, should action has been or is being taken.
provide early warning of potential financial risks.
Revised forecasts for the year are produced at least quarterly.
Reports include a monthly cash flow statement projected for 15 months: the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director undertake regular financial and operational reviews of the major operating units within the Group: Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 67 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
