business and financial review corporate governance accounts corporate Governance report The Board of Directors is responsible to shareholders for the strategic direction and management and control of the Groups activities and is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance in achieving these goals.
The Board confirms that the Group has complied throughout the year with the recommendations of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2006 the Combined Code in all respects other than as set out below in the Areas of non-compliance section.
A summary of the Companys compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code follows.
Composition of the Board In preparation for the Companys admission to the London Stock Exchange in October 2007, the Company altered the membership of its Board and in particular appointed a new Non-Executive Chairman, and two new, Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Accordingly, during the year, the Board comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers that two of the Non-Executive Directors, Simon Batey and John OReilly, are independent and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In addition, the Chairman was considered independent at the date of his appointment as Chairman, although for the purposes of the Combined Code he is excluded from the calculation of the Groups number of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Group has a highly committed and experienced Board, which is supported by a senior management team, with the qualifications and experience necessary for the running of the Group.
Each of the Executive Directors is expected to act in accordance with ethical principles, including those of any professional body of which they are a member.
The Non-Executive Directors are of high calibre and contribute wide-ranging business and financial experience to the Boards decision-making process.
This includes the substantial industry experience, gained over several years, of the Companys three Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Biographies of each member of the Board are set out on page 22 and their terms of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Following completion of the evaluation of the performance of the Board described on page 30, the Board is satisfied with the current balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors which allows it to exercise objectivity in decision making and proper control of the Groups business.
The Board considers that its composition is appropriate at the Groups current stage of development in view of the requirements of the Groups business and the need to maintain a practical balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
At every Annual General Meeting AGM commencing with the 2009 AGM, one third, or the whole number nearest to but not exceeding one third, of the Directors shall retire from office and may be proposed for re-election.
The Directors to retire by rotation shall be, first, those who wish to retire and not be re-appointed and, second, those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or re-appointment.
Any Director appointed by the Board since the previous AGM retires at the next AGM.
In addition, all Directors will retire no later than the third AGM following their last appointment at a general meeting.
Any term of a Non-Executive Director beyond six years will be subject to particularly rigorous review by the Board.
Any Director serving longer than nine years would be subject to annual re-election.
The retirement by rotation of Directors at this years AGM is commented upon in the Directors Report on page 25.
The Chairman, John Hughes, holds a number of non-executive directorships as set out on page 22.
The Board considers that the time commitment required by his other roles does not impact on his Chairmanship of the Group.
Neither of the Executive Directors has held any non-executive directorships of a FTSE 100 company or the chairmanship of such a company.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are split.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for the management of the Groups day-to-day operations.
A formal statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive has been adopted by the Board, and was reviewed as part of the annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board during the year.
The Board has a Senior Independent Director, Simon Batey, whose role includes being available to shareholders if required.
Functioning of the Board The Boards role includes determination of strategy, consideration and approval of business plans, budgets and significant transactions, and monitoring operational and financial performance.
This is achieved in part through the regular reviews by the Board and its Committees of operations, monthly financial reporting and forecast updates, and of risks and internal controls.
In addition to Board meetings, there is regular communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are fully aware of all significant aspects of the Groups operations.
The Non-Executive Directors meet at least annually without Executive Directors present and, separately, also without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all the Directors continually update their skills and their knowledge and familiarity with the Group in order to fulfil their role on the Board and the Board Committees.
Technical updates dealing with changes in legislation and regulation relevant to the Groups business are provided regularly to the Board by the Group Finance Director and Company Secretary.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board for decision which includes, inter alia, approval of Group strategy, budgets and business plans, Annual Reports and Interim Statements, and significant financing and capital expenditure plans.
The day-to-day operation of the Groups business is delegated to management, subject to defined authority limits.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board was reviewed following the annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board during the year.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 27 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 4 26 02 2009 10:38:09 corporate Governance report ContInueD All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are properly complied with, and that discussions and decisions are appropriately recorded.
The Company Secretary is also responsible under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good information flow within the Board and its Committees, and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Groups expense in furtherance of their duties as Directors.
Training in matters relevant to their role on the Board is available to all Board Directors.
New Directors are provided with an induction in order to introduce them to the operations and management of the business.
Data centre visits are also arranged as appropriate so that Directors may familiarise themselves with the Groups operations.
Training requirements were reviewed as part of the annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board during the year.
In accordance with the resolution passed at the Companys 2008 AGM, the Articles of Association were amended in order to reflect the ongoing implementation of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, such adoption to take effect from 1 October 2008 the date upon which Section 175 of the Act came into force.
The principal amendment was a new Article, inserted as a result of the provisions of Section 175 of the Act, which places upon a Director a statutory duty to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The new Article empowered the Directors, as permitted by Section 175 of the Act, to authorise such a situation.
Any such authorisation can be effective only if the interested Director s is are not counted in the quorum for the Directors meeting at which the matter is considered and the votes s if any of such Director s on any such authorisation will be ignored.
The Directors may impose conditions or limitations on any such authorisation.
Prior to 1 October 2008, the Board reviewed the potential for conflicts of interests of Directors in the Company.
This included the briefing of all Directors on the provisions of Section 175 of the Act and each Director being asked to notify the Company of any conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest existing at that time.
Directors are also required to notify the Company of any conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest that may arise after that date before they so arise.
On being advised of such a conflict, the procedure of the Board is to consider whether to authorise any such conflict in accordance with the Companys Articles and, if it is to be authorised, to consider whether to impose any conditions on such authorisation.
Such conditions could limit the distribution or use of, information to or by a conflicted Director or involve the Director absenting himself from discussions on the matter affected by the conflict of interest.
The Board periodically reviews a register of any actual and potential conflicts to consider whether any changes may be appropriate to this.
These procedures have been in place and operated since before 1 October 2008.
Transactions with Directors and with parties related to Directors require the prior consideration by, and approval of, the other Directors.
Board Committees The Board has established three Committees to deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs: Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
The terms of reference of these Committees are available on the Groups website.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each of the Committees and the proceedings of their meetings are generally reported to all Directors.
Audit Committee The Audit Committees role is to assist the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to internal and external audits and controls, including reviewing and monitoring: b annu al and half year financial information including consideration of the appropriateness of accounting policies and material assumptions and estimates adopted by management: b man agement reports to the Board on risk and internal controls and the Groups public statements on these matters: b inter final audit reports: b the G roups whistle-blowing policy: b dev elopments in accounting and reporting requirements: b the C ommittees effectiveness: b the p erformance and independence of the external auditors concluding in a recommendation to the Board on the re-appointment of the auditors by shareholders at the AGM.
The auditors provide annually confirmation to the Committee of their independence, stating the methods they employ to safeguard their independence: b the a udit and non-audit fees charged by the external auditors: and b the f ormal engagement terms entered into with the external auditors.
28 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 5 26 02 2009 10:38:09 business and financial review corporate governance accounts The Audit Committee has implemented procedures relating to the provision of non-audit services by the Companys auditors.
These procedures require non-audit work and the fees involved to be approved in advance by the Audit Committee after taking account of any potential risks of any current or future conflicts of interest.
During the year, the only non-audit work performed by the current auditors was assistance with the liquidation of certain dormant Group companies and due diligence work on a potential acquisition.
This work commenced before  LLP were appointed as auditors.
The rotation of external audit personnel accords with their professional guidelines.
The Company has a policy whereby, before any former employee of the external auditors may be employed by the Group, careful consideration must be given as to whether the independence of the auditors will be adversely affected, and approval of the Audit Committee is required.
The Company reviews the performance of the external auditors at least annually at the conclusion of the annual audit.
Whilst the Company does not consider it appropriate to have a policy for rotation of external audit firms, consideration is periodically given to placing future audits out to tender.
During 2008, the Company placed future audits of the Group out to competitive tender.
The firms involved in the tender were Deloitte LLP the Groups then incumbent auditors,  LLP, and two other leading international accounting firms.
After careful consideration, and in accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee,  LLP were selected as the future auditors of the Group and were appointed to this position by the Board.
Accordingly, Deloitte LLP resigned as auditors of the Group.
The Audit Committee met formally three times during the year.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Simon Batey and its other members are John OReilly and Robert Morse.
The chairman of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
At least annually, the Committee meets with the head of internal audit, and with the external auditors, in absence of management.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee recommends the policy the Company should adopt on executive remuneration, determines the levels of remuneration for each of the Executive Directors and recommends and monitors the structure of the remuneration of other members of senior management.
This committee also considers and approves the Directors Remuneration Report to be submitted for approval by the members of the Company at the Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee normally meets at least twice a year and met five times during 2008.
The Directors Remuneration Report is contained on pages 32 to 37.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by John OReilly and its other members are Simon Batey, John Hughes and Ian Nolan.
Michael Tobin, as Chief Executive, from time to time is invited to attend meetings of the Committee, save where the Committee is dealing with matters relating to his remuneration.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee assists the Board in determining the composition and make-up of the Board.
It is responsible for periodically reviewing the Boards structure and identifying potential candidates to be appointed as Directors, as the need may arise.
The Nominations Committee also determines succession plans for the Chairman and Chief Executive and reviews succession planning for other senior members of management.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board were selected prior to the IPO of the Company following an assessment of the skills already available on the Board and those that would be required in the future: and a thorough selection process assisted by the Companys external advisors.
When it is determined appropriate for a new Director to be appointed to the Board, the Nominations Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Directors on the Board and then prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
A formal, rigorous and transparent recruitment process will then be undertaken with the assistance of a specialist external search consultancy.
Before recommending the appointment of a Non-Executive Director, the Committee will establish that the prospective Director can give the time and commitment necessary to fulfil their duties, in terms of availability both to prepare for and attend meetings and to discuss matters at other times.
The Nominations Committee also manages or supervises succession planning in the Group for both Director and senior management roles.
During the year, the Committee reviewed succession planning in the Group and determined the particular roles within senior management that its supervision would include.
It also agreed the ongoing actions in relation to succession planning and will monitor this on an ongoing basis.
This Committee meets when appropriate and met twice during 2008.
It is chaired by John Hughes and its other members are Simon Batey and Sergei Riabtsov.
Michael Tobin, as Chief Executive, is normally invited to attend meetings of this Committee, although this would not be the case where it was dealing with matters relating to him or with the appointment of his successor.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 29 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 6 26 02 2009 10:38:09 corporate Governance report ContInueD Attendance at meetings Directors attendance at Board, Committee and General meetings convened in the year, along with the number of meetings that they were invited to attend, in whole or in part, is set out below: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 7 3 5 2 Attended Attended Attended Attended Executive Directors Michael Tobin 7 7 1 1 4 4 2 2 Brian McArthur-Muscroft 7 7 3 3 Non-Executive Directors John Hughes 7 7 5 5 2 2 Simon Batey 7 7 3 3 5 5 2 2 John OReilly 7 7 3 3 5 5 Robert Morse 7 7 2 3 Ian Nolan 7 7 5 5 Sergei Riabstov 7 7 2 2 All Directors attended the Companys 2008 AGM.
Board performance review The Board and its Committees carried out an annual review of their performance and effectiveness during 2008.
This review was conducted in three stages.
The first stage was completion by each Director of a detailed questionnaire on the performance of the Board, each of its Committees, and of the Director himself.
The second stage was an interview between each Director and the Senior Independent Director or the Chairman in the case of the Senior Independent Director to discuss the Directors answers to that questionnaire.
The third stage was a report to, and discussion by, the Board as a whole of the results of the questionnaires and the interview process, at which conclusions were drawn and, where appropriate, actions determined.
This included careful consideration of the membership of the Board and its Committees.
Where actions were determined to be appropriate, these have been or are being implemented as agreed by the Board.
They included reviews of the Groups communication with non-shareholder stakeholders and of Corporate Social Responsibility matters.
They also included the review of certain internal procedures established at the time of the Companys IPO in October 2007 to ensure that these continued to be appropriate.
After full and careful consideration, the Board is not proposing any immediate changes to its membership as it believes this currently to be appropriate for the reasons set out under Composition of the Board earlier in this report.
For similar reasons, the Board is not proposing any immediate changes to the membership of its Committees.
However, the Board envisages that these memberships will change in due course as the requirements in this regard change under the terms of the Relationship Agreement entered at the time of the Companys IPO, the terms of which are more fully described in note 33 of the Financial Statements.
Relations with shareholders The Group encourages dialogue with all shareholders at the AGM, at which a presentation on the Groups business is given, and during the year.
The Chairman, Executive Directors and Committee Chairmen attend the AGM to deal with any matters raised by shareholders and all other Directors are encouraged to attend as well.
The proxy votes of shareholders for the AGM are tabulated independently by the registrars to the Company.
The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director meet or speak with investor representatives regularly during the year to discuss strategic and other issues within the constraints imposed by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
On the announcement of the Groups annual and half year results, the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director give presentations to institutional investors and analysts and hold a series of one-to-one briefings with key shareholders.
Copies of the presentations are available on the Groups website.
The Board receives regular reports on meetings with shareholders from the Chief Executive Officer in order to ensure that members of the Board, and in particular the Non-Executive Directors, develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders as an alternative channel of communication with the Board.
Internal control The Directors are responsible for the Groups systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks faced by the business and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Executive Directors and staff meet to review both the risks facing the business, and the controls established to minimise those risks and their effectiveness in operation on an ongoing basis.
The aim of these reviews is to provide reasonable assurance that material risks and problems are identified and appropriate action taken at an early stage.
Reports on this review process have been submitted to the Audit Committee and the Board to enable them to assess the effectiveness of the process and ensure that the Group complies with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
The Board has not identified, nor been advised of, any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions is not considered appropriate.
30 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 7 26 02 2009 10:38:10 business and financial review corporate governance accounts The key risks identified in these review processes are summarised in the Business Review on page 15 and Note 3 of the accounting policies.
The Board confirms that procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Group have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The key elements of the Groups procedures and internal financial control framework, which are reviewed annually, are: b the c lose involvement of the Executive Directors, including regular meetings with the Senior Management Team to review all operational aspects of the business: b clear ly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
The Board has responsibility for strategy and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision: b a comprehensive Group-wide system of financial reporting, budgeting and cash forecasting and control.
Financial accounts are prepared monthly and submitted to the Board.
Profit and cash flow forecasts are prepared at least annually, and revised when necessary, to monitor actual performance: and b regu lar meetings of the Board and Audit Committee at which financial information is reviewed and business risks are identified and monitored.
The Group operates internal audit arrangements which are coordinated by the Head of Financial Reporting and operate through a system of peer reviews performed by the regional Finance Managers.
Formal reports of the results of these reviews are presented to and considered by the Audit Committee.
The main aims of the internal audit arrangements are to ensure that: b an e ffective system of internal control is being maintained at a country and Group level: b the fi financial information produced by the countries is accurate, relevant and is produced on a timely basis: b the G roups assets are safeguarded: b statu tory and legal requirements are being met: b controls are in place to mitigate known risks: and b the c ountries are consistently applying the Groups policies and procedures.
The adequacy and effectiveness of these internal audit arrangements has been reviewed and will continue to be kept under review.
Going concern Comprehensive financial forecasts have been prepared and submitted to the Board for review.
Based on the information contained in these forecasts and the assessment of the committed banking facilities in place, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Areas of non-compliance Three Non-Executive Directors are considered non-independent due to personal interest in the shares of the Company either directly, or as a partner, shareholder, director or senior employee of a body that has such a relationship with the Company.
As such the Company does not currently comply fully with the Combined Code provisions in respect of the composition of the Board and its Committees provisions A.
Two of these Directors are nominated under the terms of the Relationship Agreement entered into at the time of the Companys IPO, the terms of which are explained in note 33 of the Financial Statements.
The Board considers that the service on the Board of the Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors provides a valuable resource to the Company particularly because each has several years experience in the Companys industry.
The Board has taken careful account of the results of the Board evaluation completed during the year, commented upon on page 30.
In light of this, it considers that the appointment of a sufficient number of Independent Non-Executive Directors to achieve full compliance with the Combined Code at this time would make the Board unwieldy and provide no significant overall benefit to the operation of the Board.
It also considers that there is adequate independent representation on the Board for the time being.
The Company intends to move to full compliance with the Combined Code in due course as the requirements under the Relationship Agreement change.
Although no Senior Independent Non-Executive Director had been appointed at the beginning of the year in accordance with Combined Code provision A.
3.3, Simon Batey was appointed to this role in March 2008.
On behalf of the Board John Hughes Simon Batey Chairman Senior Independent Director 30 January 2009 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 31 3 TCY ar08 back.
