DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report The Board of Directors of Thomas Cook Group plc is committed to the The Board of Directors principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code An effective Board of Directors leads and controls the Group and has a on Corporate Governance the Code.
In determining its governance schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
This schedule and the terms arrangements, the Board also has to have regard to the provisions of of reference for the Audit & Risk Management, Management Development the Relationship Agreement between the Company and Arcandor AG & Remuneration, Nominations, and Health, Safety & Environmental Arcandor.
Committees are available on request and on the Companys website at www.
The powers of the Directors are set out in This report sets out how the Company applied the Code principles and the Companys Articles of Association.
These are also available on the the extent to which the Company complied with the provisions of Section Companys website.
1 of the Code in the period 1 November 2007 to 30 September 2008 the Financial Period.
The Board is specifically responsible for: The position of Arcandor as major shareholder approval of the Groups strategy and its budgetary and business plans: Arcandor holds directly or indirectly 52.8% of the Companys shares.
approval of significant investments and capital expenditure: Upon the merger between MyTravel Group plc and Thomas Cook AG in approval of annual and half-year results and interim management June 2007 to form Thomas Cook Group plc the Company, Arcandor and statements, accounting policies, and the appointment and the Company entered into a Relationship Agreement the Relationship remuneration of the external auditors: Agreement.
The Relationship Agreement sets out certain aspects of the approval of interim, and recommendation of final, dividends: Companys governance arrangements.
The Board considers that these changes to the Groups capital structure and the issue of any securities: arrangements are in the best interest of the Company in view of its maintenance of the Groups system of internal control, governance ownership structure.
In particular, the Relationship Agreement covers the and approval authorities: following matters: executive performance and succession planning: determining standards of ethics and policy in relation to health, Arcandor has the right to appoint two Non-Executive Directors: safety, environment, social and community responsibilities.
Thomas Middelhoff and Peter Diesch were appointed under this provision, as will Dr Karl-Gerhard Eick, with effect from 22 December One of the Boards meetings during the year is specifically devoted to the 2008, when Peter Diesch steps down from the Board.
For so long as development of the Groups strategy.
Strategy is continually monitored Arcandor holds at least 40% or more of the shares in the Company, it and reviewed by the Board.
also has the right to appoint one of those Directors as Chairman.
Board meetings and attendance Thomas Middelhoff was appointed under this provision.
The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year and At all times the Independent Non-Executive Directors will constitute supplementary meetings are held as and when necessary.
The Board a majority of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
held ten scheduled and ten unscheduled supplementary meetings during The two Arcandor appointed Non-Executive Directors have the right the Financial Period.
A table detailing individual Director attendance at to membership of the Audit & Risk Management Committee, the scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the Financial Period is Management Development & Remuneration Committee and the set out on page 52.
Non-attendance at meetings was due to prior business Nominations Committee.
However, the Relationship Agreement commitments.
All Directors who were unable to attend specific Board or provides that those Committees should also comprise no fewer Committee meetings reviewed the relevant briefing papers and provided than three Independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom will their comments to the Chairman of the Board or Committee, as appropriate.
In respect of the Audit & Risk The Chairman and each Non-Executive Director has provided assurance Management Committee and Management Development & to the Board that they remain fully committed to their respective roles Remuneration Committee, due to the arrangement provided by and can dedicate sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
the Relationship Agreement, the Company is not compliant with the Code provisions A.
For so long as Arcandor holds 40% or more of the shares in the Company, the Board cannot appoint a new Chief Executive Officer without the prior written consent of Arcandor.
Provided the nomination processes as set out in the Relationship Agreement are followed, Arcandors voting rights, in respect of the election or re-election of any Director at General Meetings, will be restricted to two-thirds of the voting shares in issue which are not held or controlled by Arcandor.
The Company carries on its businesses independently from Arcandor.
Any proposed transactions and relationships between the Company and Arcandor are to be on a normal commercial basis and are subject to the prior approval of a Committee comprising the Independent Non-Executive Directors and to the provisions of Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority Related Party Transactions.
In circumstances where Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules would require a proposed transaction to be approved by shareholders, Arcandor shall not vote its shares on that resolution.
Although not covered in the Relationship Agreement, the Companys financing arrangements, including the 1.4 billion credit facility referred to in the Financial Review on pages 41 to 45, are ringfenced from Arcandor.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate in the event of Arcandors shareholding falling below 30%.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 51 Corporate governance report continued The table below shows the number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director out of the number convened during the time served by each Director on the Board or relevant Committee during the Financial Period.
Current Directors: Management Audit & Risk Development & Health, Safety & Nominations Management Remuneration Environmental Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Thomas Middelhoff Non-Executive Chairman 9 10 2 2 10 12 6 9 David Allvey Independent Non-Executive Director 9 10 12 12 2 2 Michael Beckett Deputy Chairman & Senior Independent Director 10 10 2 2 11 12 9 9 2 2 1 Jrgen Bser Chief Financial Officer 2 2 Roger Burnell Independent Non-Executive Director 9 10 2 2 12 12 8 9 2 2 Peter Diesch Non-Executive Director 7 10 1 2 8 12 6 9 Manny Fontenla-Novoa Chief Executive Officer 10 10 2 2 Hemj Klein Independent Non-Executive Director 9 10 7 9 2 2 Bo Lerenius Independent Non-Executive Director 7 10 12 12 2 Nigel Northridge Independent Non-Executive Director 2 2 2 3 Former Directors who served during the year: Management Audit & Risk Development & Health, Safety & Nominations Management Remuneration Environmental Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 3 John Bloodworth 2 2 4 Ludger Heuberg 8 8 5 Peter McHugh 2 2 6 Angus Porter 5 6 4 5 1 Jrgen Bser was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2008 2 Nigel Northridge was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2008 3 John Bloodworth resigned from the Board on 31 December 2007 4 Ludger Heuberg resigned from the Board on 1 July 2008 5 Peter McHugh resigned from the Board on 31 December 2007 6 Angus Porter resigned from the Board on 25 April 2008 Board and Committee composition The Board comprises two Executive Directors and eight Non-Executive Directors, six of whom are considered to be independent.
Biographical details of the Directors can be found on pages 48 and 49.
Peter Diesch will step down from the Board with effect from 22 December 2008.
He will be replaced as an Arcandor nominated Non-Executive Director by Dr Karl-Gerhard Eick, who will be appointed a Director with effect from 22 December 2008.
As part of its annual review of corporate governance, the Board considered the independence of the Non-Executive Directors against the criteria specified in the Code and determined that David Allvey, Michael Beckett, Roger Burnell, Hemj Klein, Bo Lerenius and Nigel Northridge remained independent.
The Arcandor nominated Directors Thomas Middelhoff, Peter Diesch and Karl-Gerhard Eick who will replace him on 22 December 2008 are not considered as independent.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and distinct and each has a written statement of his respective responsibilities, a summary of which can be found within the Corporate Governance compliance statement at www.
The Chairman, Thomas Middelhoff, is responsible for leading the Board and chairing Board and general meetings of the Company.
The Chief Executive Officer, Manny Fontenla-Novoa, is responsible for the development of strategy and, once approved by the Board, its implementation and the day-to-day executive management of the Group.
The Senior Independent Director, Michael Beckett, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not, or cannot, be resolved through discussion with the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Michael Beckett chairs meetings of the Independent Non-Executive Directors, who meet periodically throughout the year.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent process in place for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
This process is described in the section on the Nominations Committee on page 54.
In accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment to the Board and thereafter are subject to re-election every third year.
Other than in respect of the Arcandor appointed Directors and Michael Beckett, Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a threeyear term and, subject to rigorous review and re-election, can serve up to a maximum of three such terms.
Upon the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, David Allvey will be proposed for re-election and Jrgen Bser, Nigel Northridge and Karl-Gerhard Eick, having been appointed to the Board since the last AGM, will each retire and offer himself for re-appointment by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
com DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Operation of the Board Directors conflicts of interest Before each Board meeting, Directors received a comprehensive pack of From 1 October 2008, a Director has had a statutory duty to avoid a papers and reports on the matters to be discussed at the meeting.
Senior situation in which he has, or can have, an interest that conflicts or executives below Board level also attended relevant parts of Board possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
A Director will meetings in order to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been authorised This gave the Board access to a broader group of executives.
in accordance with the Articles of Association by the other Directors.
The Articles of Association were amended to include the relevant Between Board meetings, Directors are provided with relevant authorisation for Directors to approve such conflicts by a resolution information on matters affecting the business.
of shareholders at the AGM held on 10 April 2008.
The Group Company Secretary, who was appointed by the Board, is Prior to 1 October 2008, the Board conducted a review of actual or responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on possible conflicts of interest in respect of each Director.
At its meeting corporate governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and in September 2008, the Board approved a set of guiding principles on services of the Group Company Secretary and, through him, have access to managing conflicts: considered the process that had been adopted for independent professional advice in respect of their duties at the Companys identifying current conflicts: authorised the conflicts that had been expense.
The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
identified and stipulated conditions in accordance with the guiding The Code provides that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors principles: and agreed a process to identify and authorise future conflicts.
should meet without executives present: such meetings have taken It was also agreed that the Nominations Committee would review the place.
However, because of the governance structure adopted under the authorised conflicts every six months, or more frequently if the potential Relationship Agreement, the Company believes that the spirit of the Code conflict situation materialises.
is also served by the meetings of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
As Committees of the Board stated above, these meetings are chaired by the Deputy Chairman, who is The Board has delegated authority to its Committees on specific aspects also the Senior Independent Director.
of management and control of the Group.
Matters discussed and agreed Board evaluation at the Committees are reported to the next Board meeting.
An evaluation of the Board and its Committees was conducted during the Group Executive Board Financial Period.
The Board evaluation focused on the following areas: The Chief Executive Officer chairs the Group Executive Board which meets the Board, its size, structure, effectiveness, range of skills and the ten times a year to oversee the strategic development and operational appropriateness of its delegated authorities: management of the Groups businesses.
The current members of the the appropriateness of information circulated to the Board for Group Executive Board, together with their biographies, are set out on meetings and with regard to financial and operational matters: page 50. compliance with legislation, regulation and codes and advice on Finance & Administration Committee corporate governance: To facilitate swift and efficient operational management decisions, the establishment, competence and terms of reference of the Board has established the Finance & Administration Committee Board Committees.
comprising the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer The evaluation highlighted a small number of issues and appropriate which has delegated authority, within clearly identified parameters, actions have been taken to address them.
In addition, the Chairman in relation to day-to-day financing and administrative matters.
was responsive to suggestions made by the Independent Non-Executive Audit & Risk Management Committee Directors regarding the operation and focus of the Board.
In line with Role of the Committee best practice, the Company has adopted an online evaluation system, The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for overseeing which will be used to conduct an evaluation of the Board and its the financial reporting and internal risk management control functions Committees in the current year.
and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the The Independent Non-Executive Directors reviewed the performance appointment of the Companys internal and external auditors.
As part of the Companys performance management In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee, which reports system that applies to management at all levels across the Group, the its findings to the Board, is authorised to: performance of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer is reviewed by the Management Development & Remuneration Committee.
monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial statements, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements Board training and induction contained in them: An induction programme tailored to meet the needs of individual review the Companys internal financial controls, internal control Directors is provided for each new Director.
Overall, the aim of the and risk management systems: induction programme is to introduce new Directors to the Groups monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal business, its operations and its governance arrangements.
Nigel audit function: Northridges induction programme, for example, included meetings establish and oversee the Companys relationship with the external with senior management, visits to the Companys offices in different auditors, including the monitoring of their independence: and geographical locations, presentations on key business areas and monitor matters raised pursuant to the Companys whistleblowing relevant documentation.
Directors also receive training throughout the year.
At Board meetings The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on and, where appropriate, Committee meetings, the Directors receive www.
com or from the Group Company Secretary at regular updates and presentations on changes and developments to the the registered office.
business, and to the legislative and regulatory environments.
During the Financial Period, the Board was provided with updates on the business environment and briefings on their codified duties, conflicts of interest and a presentation on the law relating to corporate manslaughter.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 53 Corporate governance report continued The composition of the Committee Nominations Committee All members of the Committee are Non-Executive Directors.
Consistent Role of the Committee with the Relationship Agreement, the two Arcandor appointed The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing Non-Executive Directors, Thomas Middelhoff and Peter Diesch and and proposing appointments to the Board and for recommending any Karl-Gerhard Eick who will replace him on 22 December 2008, who other changes to the composition of the Board or the Board Committees.
do not meet the test of independence, are members of the Committee.
The principal responsibility of the Committee is to make recommendations However, the other four members of the Committee are Independent to the Board on all new appointments to the Board, as well as Board Non-Executive Directors.
There were no changes to the composition balance and composition.
The Committee ensures that there is clarity of the Committee during the Financial Period.
The composition of in respect of the role description and capabilities for such appointments.
the Committee at 30 September 2008 was: The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on David Allvey Chairman www.
com or from the Group Company Secretary at Michael Beckett the registered office.
Roger Burnell The composition of the Committee Peter Diesch All of the members of the Committee are Non-Executive Directors, two Bo Lerenius of whom, Thomas Middelhoff and Peter Diesch who will be replaced Thomas Middelhoff by Karl-Gerhard Eick on 22 December 2008, do not meet the test of Independent Non-Executive Directors independence.
Angus Porter resigned from the Board, and therefore ceased to be a member of the Committee, on 25 April 2008.
During David Allvey is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant the period from 25 April to 1 August 2008, the Code requirement that financial experience as required by the Code.
a majority of the Nominations Committee comprise Independent Meetings and attendance Non-Executive Directors was not satisfied.
Nigel Northridge joined The Committee, which meets as often as required, met twelve the Board, and was appointed to the Committee, on 1 August 2008. times during the Financial Period, which included meetings held by At 30 September 2008 the composition of the Committee was: teleconference, to approve matters such as the provision of financial Michael Beckett Chairman information to Arcandor pursuant to the Relationship Agreement.
Roger Burnell Attendance by Committee members at each meeting is set out in Peter Diesch the attendance table on page 52.
Thomas Middelhoff During the Financial Period, the Committee met twice privately with Nigel Northridge the external auditors,  LLP, and separately with Independent Non-Executive Directors representatives from Ernst & Young LLP who have been appointed as the internal auditors of the Company.
Board appointments Appointments to the Board are made on merit and against objective Business conducted during the Financial Period criteria.
This process is led by the Nominations Committee which, after Review of the annual and half-yearly results and interim evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of each management statements: Director, makes recommendations to the Board.
Review of the accounting judgements and policies adopted in connection with the above, and the quarterly submission Meetings and attendance of financial information to Arcandor: During the Financial Period, the Committee had two formal meetings.
Policy in relation to taxation: Attendance by Committee members at each meeting is given in the Fuel hedging strategy: attendance table on page 52.
Treasury policies and procedures: Principal activities during the Financial Period Review and approval of the internal audit plan and the results The Committee considered the appointment of a new Chief Financial of the audits conducted under that plan: Officer following the decision of Ludger Heuberg to step down from the Review and approval of the external audit plan: and Board for personal reasons and move back to Germany to assume the Review of the principal risks.
role of CFO for the Groups Continental European business segment.
In Support to the Committee line with succession plans, the Nominations Committee recommended The Committee received information and support from management during Jrgen Bser, formerly CFO for the UK & Ireland Division, as the new the year to enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively.
Chief Financial Officer and he was appointed with effect from 1 July 2008.
External auditors The Committee engaged the services of an external search agency The Committee has developed a policy for the provision of non-audit and other professional firms for the recruitment of Non-Executive services by the auditors and pre-approves material fees for non-audit Directors.
This process resulted in the recommendation to the Board services in accordance with that policy in order to ensure that the of the appointment of Nigel Northridge with effect from 1 August 2008. provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors Management Development & Remuneration Committee independence or objectivity.
The policy, which is appended as a schedule A report detailing the composition, responsibilities and work carried to the Audit & Risk Management Committees terms of reference, is out by the Management Development & Remuneration Committee during published on the Companys website at www.
the year, including an explanation of how it applies the principles of the An analysis of the fees earned by the Groups auditors for audit and Code in respect of Executive Directors remuneration, is included within non-audit services is disclosed in Note 10 to the Financial Statements.
the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 66.
 LLP PwC were appointed as sole auditors of The Management Development & Remuneration Committee does not the Company, having previously been joint auditors, following a tender determine the Chairmans remuneration and therefore does not comply process conducted at the beginning of the Financial Period.
An explanation of this is set out in the Remuneration appointed by shareholders at the AGM held on 10 April 2008.
Upon the Report on pages 59 to 66. recommendation of the Audit & Risk Management Committee, PwC will be proposed for re-election by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 19 March 2009.
PwC have confirmed their independence as auditors of the Company in a letter addressed to the Directors.
com DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE All members of the Committee are Non-Executive Directors.
Consistent At its 2008 AGM, the Company passed a resolution allowing the website with the Relationship Agreement, the two Arcandor appointed Directors, and email to be used as the primary means of communication with Thomas Middelhoff and Peter Diesch, neither of whom meet the Codes its shareholders.
This arrangement provides significant benefits for test of independence, are members of the Committee.
However, each of shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness of information, the other four members, being a majority of the Committee, has been reduced environmental impact, and cost.
Shareholders may still opt to determined by the Board as being independent as defined by the Code.
receive their communications in a paper format.
The Companys website contains information for shareholders, including share price and news Health, Safety & Environmental Committee releases, and can be found at www.
Role of the Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility to review, Risk management and internal control develop and oversee consistent policy, standards and procedures for The Board recognises its ultimate accountability for maintaining an managing health, safety and environmental risks to the Groups business.
effective system of internal control that is appropriate in relation to both It is also responsible for the review and oversight of compliance with the scope and the nature of the Groups activities and complies with the relevant legislation and regulation relating to health, safety and the Turnbull Committee Guidance on the Combined Code and has approved environment across the Group.
the framework and the standards implemented.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the implementation of the Group Risk Management The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on Policy to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Financial Officer has formed www.
com or from the Group Company Secretary the Group Risk Management Committee comprising senior executives at the registered office.
from across the Group, to support him in fulfilling this responsibility.
The composition of the Committee The Group Risk Management Committee is responsible for: The composition of the Committee at 30 September 2008 was: supervising a thorough and regular evaluation of the nature Roger Burnell Chairman and extent of the risks to which the Company is exposed: David Allvey reviewing the corporate risk profile and recommending risk Michael Beckett management strategies: and Manny Fontenla-Novoa supervising and assessing the overall effectiveness of the risk Hemj Klein management process.
Independent Non-Executive Directors To support the Group Risk Management Committee, there are segment Meetings and attendance risk management committees, each comprising the respective segment During the Financial Period the Committee met twice: there was also Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other senior managers.
a presentation and discussion on corporate manslaughter at a Board The Group has established five segment risk committees which report into meeting.
Attendance by Committee members at each meeting is set and support the work of the Group Risk Management Committee: out in the attendance table on page 52.
UK & Ireland: During the Financial Period, the Committee reviewed and agreed the Continental Europe: Groups Health, Safety & Environmental report, reviewed the process Northern Europe: of health and safety reporting across the Group and agreed the Group North America: and objectives in the fields of health, safety and the environment for 2007 08.
The Groups corporate social responsibility report for 2007 08 is available By implementing the risk management policy, the segments are on www.
com and contains the Groups health, safety responsible for: and environmental policies, an explanation of how Thomas Cook maintaining and updating risk reporting: manages corporate social responsibility and progress against targets.
managing risk action implementation and measurement systems: and A summary of the online report is contained on pages 38 to 40 in the maintaining and reviewing risk performance and measurement systems.
Risk registers are compiled and submitted by each segment for review Shareholder communication quarterly.
The Group Risk Management Committee prepares a half-yearly The Board promotes open communication with shareholders, which is risk report for the attention of the Audit & Risk Management Committee formalised within a framework of investor relations and includes formal based on the feedback from the segment risk management committees.
presentations of full year and interim results, trading statements and The report identifies the principal risks to the business and assesses the regular meetings between executive management and institutional adequacy of controls and procedures in place to mitigate the likelihood investors.
In addition, the Board responds to ad hoc requests for and the impact of these risks.
The regular risk reporting regime has information and all shareholders have an opportunity to question created an environment for the development and improvement of risk the Board at the AGM.
management procedures across the Group.
The Audit & Risk Management A review of the performance and financial position of the Group and business Committee reviews the reports of the Group Risk Management Committee segments and an explanation of the Groups strategy is provided on pages and makes recommendations to improve risk management and internal 9 to 45 in the Business review.
This process of risk identification, measurement and reporting provides a comprehensive ongoing assessment of the significant risks The Deputy Chairman, who is also the Senior Independent Director, met a facing the Group and the mitigating actions taken in respect of those risks.
number of major institutional shareholders during the year to discuss the This process ensures that the Group complies with the relevant corporate Groups remuneration policy and governance arrangements, and to gain a governance best practice in relation to risk management, including the first-hand understanding of any issues or concerns they may have had.
guidance issued under the Turnbull Report.
The Groups internal audit function reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Management Committee.
Internal audit makes recommendations to that Committee in relation to the maintenance of a sound control environment throughout the Group.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 55 Corporate governance report continued The Group encourages employees to report any concerns which they feel Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the need to be brought to the attention of management and has adopted a Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and whistleblowing policy and guidance on theft and fraud reporting policy.
the financial statements These are published on the Groups intranet sites, allowing such matters The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the to be raised in confidence through the appropriate channels.
The Group Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in has a code of ethics which deals with: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
prohibitions on employees using their position for personal gain: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for prohibitions on improper business practices: each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the a requirement for compliance with all internal approval and Group and the Company financial statements in accordance with authorisation procedures and legal requirements: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the a requirement to disclose potential conflicts of interest and potential European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a related party contracts.
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
This code of ethics is contained within the Groups internal policies guide, which is available to all employees and, in particular, those In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: with responsibility for procurement or other dealings with third party select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: suppliers.
In addition, the Group Company Secretary is available for make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and advice on any matter which may give rise to cause for concern in state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by relation to the code of ethics.
During the year, the Board, through the work of the Audit & Risk The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements Management Committee, has conducted a review of the Groups system in preparing the financial statements.
There is an ongoing process for the identification and evaluation of risk management and internal control processes which has The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that been in place throughout the year and remains in place up to the date of disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the the financial statements.
The Board, in reviewing the effectiveness of the Company and the Group, and to enable them to ensure that the financial system of internal control, can confirm that necessary actions have been, statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the or are being, taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, identified from that review.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable Going concern steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this Companys website, and legislation in the United Kingdom governing the reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that: so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and that he has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make him aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
