SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND DIRECTORS Mary Cirillo is a corporate director.
Ms. Cirillo was Chair and John Thompson is Chairman of the Board of The TorontoChief Executive officer of Opcenter, LLC, an Internet consulting Dominion Bank, a Canadian financial institution.
Prior to that, she was a senior banking held a number of senior management positions in his career at executive for over 25 years at Citibank and Bankers Trust.
IBM including having oversight responsibility for the companys Ms. Cirillo is a member of the Advisory Board of Hudson Venture worldwide technology, manufacturing and business strategy.
Partners, L. P, a venture capital rm, and serves on the boards He was Vice Chairman of the Board of IBM from 2000 until 2002. of several cultural and educational organizations.
She has a BA He is a graduate of the University of Western Ontario with a from Hunter College.
Ms. Cirillo resides in New York, New York, degree in Engineering Science.
Mr. Thompson also completed United States.
executive management programs at the Richard Ivey School at the University of Western Ontario and the Kellogg Graduate Steven Denning is Chairman of General Atlantic LLC, a private School of Business at Northwestern University.
Mr. Thompson equity investment rm that focuses exclusively on investing in is also Chancellor of the University of Western Ontario.
Mr. Denning has been with General Mr. Thompson resides in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Atlantic or its predecessor since 1980.
He serves on the boards of several cultural and educational organizations.
He has an MBA Peter J. Thomson is a Chairman of Woodbridge, the Thomson from Stanford Business School.
Mr. Denning resides in Greenwich, family investment company.
Mr. Thomson is an active private Connecticut, United States.
equity investor and serves on the boards of several private companies.
He has a BA from the University of Western Ontario.
Lawton Fitt is a corporate director.
She joined the board of Mr. Thomson resides in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Ms. Fitt served as Secretary CEO of the Royal Academy of Arts in London from 2002 to March 2005.
Prior to John Tory is a director of Woodbridge.
He was President of that, she was an investment banker with Goldman Sachs & Co. Woodbridge from 1973 to 1998 and Deputy Chairman of Thomson where she became a partner in 1994 and a managing director in from 1978 to 1997.
Mr. Tory has a law degree from the University 1996.
Ms. Fitt has an MBA from the University of Virginia.
Mr. Tory resides in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
resides in New York, New York, United States.
Audit Committee Roger Martin is Dean of the Joseph L. Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto, a post-secondary The Audit Committee comprises Vance K. Opperman Chair, educational institution, a position he has held since 1998.
Lawton Fitt, Roger L. Martin, Ken Olisa and John M. Thompson.
Previously, Mr. Martin was a Director of Monitor Company, a global All members of the Audit Committee are nancially literate in strategy consulting rm.
Mr. Martin is Chair of the Ontario Task accordance with applicable Canadian, U. S. and U. K. securities Force on Competitiveness, Productivity and Economic Progress rules.
We have not sought to determine that any member of the and is the Director of the AIC Institute for Corporate Citizenship.
Audit Committee qualies as an audit committee financial He also serves on the boards of several not-for-profit organizations.
expert within the meaning of applicable SEC rules or meets He has an MBA from Harvard University.
Mr. Martin resides in applicable tests for accounting or related financial management Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
expertise within the meaning of NYSE, Nasdaq and U. K. Combined Code provisions.
However, we consider that, collectively, the Sir Deryck Maughan is a Partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & members of the Audit Committee have the requisite skills and Co. a global asset management company.
He was Chairman and experience to properly discharge their responsibilities.
The board Chief Executive officer of Citigroup International until 2004 and plans to consider these qualications in future nominations to served as Vice Chairman of the New York Stock Exchange from the board and appointments to the Audit Committee.
Sir Deryck joined the board of Reuters in 2005.
He also serves on the boards of several charitable organizations.
Sir Biographies for the members of the Audit Committee are Deryck is a graduate of Kings College, University of London and provided above.
the Graduate School of Business, Stanford University.
Sir Deryck resides in New York, New York, United States.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services Ken Olisa is founder and Chairman of Restoration Partners The following table sets forth fees payable to , a specialized technology merchant bank which launched Coopers LLP Canada and  LLP U. K. in 2006.
He was Chairman of Interregnum plc from 2000 to 2006 and their respective afliates in 2008 and 2007: and Chief Executive officer since its inception in 1992.
Mr. Olisa joined the Reuters board in 2004.
He also serves on the boards of in millions of U. S. dollars 2008 2007 several charitable organizations.
He has a MA from Cambridge Audit fees $23.0 $13.7 University.
Mr. Olisa resides in London, United Kingdom.
Audit-related fees 3.8 19.0 Vance Opperman is President and Chief Executive officer of Tax fees 11.2 10.9 Key Investment, Inc. a private investment company involved in All other fees 0.7 0.2 publishing and other activities.
Previously, Mr. Opperman was Total $38.7 $43.8 President of West Publishing Company, an information provider of legal and business research which is now owned by Thomson Reuters.
He serves on the boards of several educational and notfor-profit organizations.
He has a law degree from the University of Minnesota and practiced law for many years.
Mr. Opperman resides in Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States.
