50 Audit Committee report This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Meetings requirements of paragraph C. 3.3 of the Combined Code and The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year and on paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the Guidance on Audit Committees other occasions when circumstances require.
The quorum for produced by Sir Robert Smith.
The report describes the role of a meeting of the Committee is two members.
The Finance the Audit Committee in meeting these requirements.
Director and representatives from the independent auditor and the internal auditor attend meetings under a standing invitation.
The Chairman of the Board, the CEO and other Terms of reference Directors are able to attend meetings of the Committee under The Committees terms of reference, a copy of which can be the practice that any Director may attend any meeting of a found in the Responsibilities Governance area on the Committee of the Board, provided that they have no conflict Companys website, are reviewed from time to time and of interest in respect of business to be discussed.
It is usual approved by the Board.
They are based on the model terms of practice for the CEO to attend meetings of the Audit reference set out in the Guidance Note produced by the Committee.
Other finance and business risk executives attend Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and take meetings and the Company Secretary is Secretary to the account of the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley and the Committee.
The Committee Chairman reports regularly to the Guidance Notes set out in Sir Robert Smiths Report published Board on its activities.
Four meetings were held during the year in January 2003. and attendance is set out in the table on page 43.
The terms of reference cover membership and appointment, meetings, duties and responsibilities, authority and a number Work of the Committee of other matters.
The Companies Act 2006 imposed new The Committee has established an agenda framework which duties on Directors to avoid a conflict of interests, particularly the Company considers vital for maintaining an appropriate in relation to third-party arrangements and, during the year, focus on the objectives of the Committee.
The agenda sets out the Board delegated to the Audit Committee the duty of all of the operational duties and responsibilities outlined in the looking at each Director in turn and examining any possible Committees terms of reference and is based on four regular sources of potential conflict.
This duty was incorporated into meetings, in February, April, July and November, which coincide the Audit Committees terms of reference in July 2008.
No with the interim management statements and the conflicts were found to exist.
The areas covered by the agenda framework are as follows: Membership and appointment 1.
Corporate Governance, including the regular review of the The Audit Committee comprises four independent NonCommittees terms of reference and annual evaluation, Executive Directors: David Richardson who was appointed to regulatory issues, review of delegated authorities and the Committee in March 2006 and became Chairman in review of auditor independence.
May 2006, Richard Gillingwater who was appointed in 2.
Internal Audit, including the review of the internal audit December 2005, John McDonough and Leo Quinn who were charter, internal audit review reports on the Groups internal appointed in July 2007. control and risk assessment processes, compliance with The Board has determined that all four members of the Audit auditing standards and progress against its internal audit Committee are independent for the purposes of the Combined plan, functional developments and key performance Code and rule 10A.
3 b 1 under the Exchange Act and section measures.
303A of the NYSEs Listed Company Manual.
Confidential sessions with the independent auditors and the bring wide-ranging financial, commercial and management Vice-President, Internal Audit, in the absence of Directors experience to the work of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee, David Richardson, is a 4.
Financial Reporting, including current accounting and Chartered Accountant FCA, having previously held a number financial reporting matters and review of half-yearly and of senior financial management and strategic planning annual financial statements prior to their submission to the positions in Whitbread plc from 1983 to 2005 in the UK and Board for approval, which includes the consistency of US, becoming Group Finance Director in 2001.
he held financial positions in ICL plc and Touche Ross & Co.
In accordance with section 407 of Sarbanes-Oxley, the Board has 5.
Independent Auditors, including appointment, audit plan determined that David Richardson is an audit committee and scope, review of audit fees, cost effectiveness, approval financial expert as that term is defined under the rules of the of non-audit fees, reports on half-yearly and annual SEC, having significant, relevant and up-to-date UK and US financial statements and the effectiveness of internal financial and accounting knowledge and experience.
controls over financial reporting, status reports, management letters and the nature and extent of non-audit services.
The audit plan and scope sets out details of the areas to be covered and how the audit is to be conducted.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets periodically with the independent auditors to discuss progress on the audit and the major points to arise, and has the opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the process.
The Committee is also able to assess the effectiveness of the auditors and the process through reports made by the independent auditors.
Governance 51 Audit Committee report In addition to the items considered by the Committee under The Companys practice, in accordance with UK company law the agenda framework, during 2008 other important issues and the Combined Code, in relation to the appointment and considered included a review of the change of the Companys termination of the independent auditors, involves a functional currency and the Group's presentation currency from recommendation from the Audit Committee to the Board, sterling to the US dollar, periodic reporting under the Disclosure which will then make a recommendation to shareholders in and Transparency Rules of the UKLA, a review of the top ten general meeting.
This differs from the procedure in the US, required financial controls and an update of the Committees where the independent auditors are accountable to the Audit terms of reference to deal with changes brought about by the Committee which has the authority to appoint or dismiss the Companies Act 2006.
The Committee also undertook regular independent auditors without reference to shareholders.
reviews of the internal control systems and the statement to be With the approval of the Board, the Committee has established made in the Directors Report in respect of internal controls, the guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former Group risk profile, Group tax reports, updates on compliance employees of the independent auditors.
The Group will not with the Combined Code and approval of Form 20-F.
The engage, on a part-time or full-time basis, any person who is Committee received reports on the Companys efforts in or was an employee of the Companys independent auditors, countering potential fraud in the Group.
The Internal Audit where that person has worked on the Groups audit either as a function is actively engaged in assessing the adequacy and principal or partner at any time during a period of not less than effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk three years prior to the proposed date of joining the Group.
Each quarter, the Committee receives a Certain less stringent conditions apply to other employees or summary of reviews of the businesses risk management former employees of the independent auditors.
processes and any significant related financial exposures are highlighted.
The risk assessment process and risk mitigation plans A whistleblowing procedure has been established for the are an important part of the development of business strategies.
confidential and anonymous submission by employees of Business risks are considered at the quarterly reviews with the concerns regarding accounting, internal controls or auditing businesses, where all of the major strategic, operational, matters, in accordance with the requirements of section 301 compliance and financial risks are discussed.
Should a call be received on the dedicated meetings with representatives of the independent auditors and telephone line, the Company Secretary or the General Counsel internal audit functions took place during the year in the absence would immediately report to the appropriate management all of executives.
A course of action is agreed and a report is prepared for review at the next meeting of the Audit Committee, In determining its policy on the extent of non-audit services including details of actions taken to deal with the matters provided by the independent auditors, the Committee has raised where the significance of the event warrants such an taken account of the rules of the SEC which regulate and, in action.
The Chairman of the Committee will report, if certain circumstances, prohibit the provision of, certain types of appropriate, whistleblowing claims to the Committee and the non-audit services by the independent auditors.
The Companys Code of Conduct and Ethics includes services require the approval of the Chairman of the Audit the whistleblowing procedure.
Calls to the designated Committee.
During the year, certain projects requiring tax telephone number, as well as direct contacts with services were awarded to the firm of the independent auditors.
management, are made from time to time, but no In those cases where the work was awarded to the whistleblowing issues material to the Company were dealt independent auditors, it was concluded that the firm of the with by the Committee during the year.
independent auditors was best placed to supply such tax services in a cost-effective manner due to the experience and Shareholders are given the opportunity at the AGM to ask the qualifications of the individuals providing such services, the Chairman of the Committee questions on this report and any independent auditors knowledge of the Company and its tax other related matter.
affairs and that the best interests of the Company were served by engaging the firm of the independent auditors.
The previous adoption of certain other rules by the Committee, David Richardson including those relating to audit partner rotation, relevant Chairman, Audit Committee ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services 24 February 2009 by the independent auditors in particular that the independent auditors should not audit their own firms work, make management decisions for the Company, create a mutuality of interest nor be put in the position of advocate for the Company, when taken together provide adequate protection of auditor independence.
All fees proposed by the independent auditors must be reported to and approved by the Audit Committee or, between meetings, the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Details of audit fees for the year can be found in note 17 to the Groups consolidated financial statements.
