42 Key governance principles The Board promotes the highest standards of corporate The Board sets the standards and values of the governance within the Company through its support and Company and much of this has been embodied in the application of the Principles of Good Governance set out in Companys Code of Conduct and Ethics and Human section 1 of the Combined Code.
A summary of the Rights Policy which can be found on the Companys Companys system of applying the principles and the manner website, www.
The Code of Conduct in which the provisions in section 1 have been complied with and Ethics applies to all Directors, officers and are set out below.
Section 1 of the Combined Code sets out employees, including the principal executive, financial the main and supporting Principles of Good Governance for and accounting officers, as required by section 406 of companies which are split into the following areas: Sarbanes-Oxley, the related rules of the SEC and the rules of the NYSE.
The Code of Conduct and Ethics 1.
Directors contains provisions Reporting of Violations under 2.
Remuneration which employees can report violations of company 3.
Accountability and audit policy or any applicable law, rule or regulation, 4.
Shareholder relations including those of the SEC.
US employees have the added protection of section 806 of Sarbanes-Oxley, Each of these areas is addressed in turn.
which prohibits the discrimination by a company or others against an employee where such violations are 1.
The current procedure, which is set out in Tomkins Code of Conduct and Ethics, provides for A.
The Board information to be given anonymously or by named The Company is controlled through its Board of employees under conditions of confidentiality.
Those Directors whose main roles are to: employees who come forward and give their name are assured that they will receive the full protection of create value for shareholders: section 806 of Sarbanes-Oxley and no retaliation will provide leadership of the Company: take place.
This is of particular importance since 48% of the Companys employees are based in the US.
approve the Companys strategic objectives: Furthermore, the Company ensures that the principles ensure that the necessary financial and other are applied in other jurisdictions, subject to compliance resources are made available to the management to with local employment and other laws.
enable them to meet those objectives: and The Board has delegated to the CEO responsibility for operate within a framework of effective controls the day-to-day management of the Group subject to which enables the assessment and management of certain financial limits above which Board approval is principal business risks.
The delegated authority includes such matters as operations, acquisitions and divestitures, The Board, which has reserved certain specific matters investments, capital expenditure, borrowing facilities to itself for decision set out in a Schedule of Reserved and foreign currency transactions.
Matters, is responsible for approving overall Group strategy and financial policy, acquisition and divestment The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, five policy and major capital expenditure projects.
It also additional Non-Executive Directors and two Executive appoints and removes members of the Board and Directors who, together with their different financial, Board Committees, reviews recommendations of the commercial, technical and operational expertise and Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and cultures, bring with them a wide range of experience Nomination Committee, and the appointment of the to the Company.
It also reviews the financial performance and operation of each of the Companys businesses.
The Company has granted qualifying thirdparty indemnities to the Directors that remain in force at the time of this report.
Governance 43 Key governance principles The Board has determined that the Non-Executive Directors, They meet together from time to time in the absence of Richard Gillingwater, John McDonough, Leo Quinn, David management and the Chairman normally presides over Richardson and Struan Robertson, are independent, as they are such meetings.
independent of the Companys executive management and On appointment, Non-Executive Directors receive a range of free from any material business or other relationship with the information about the Company by way of an induction Company either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer programme which aims to provide an understanding of the of an organisation that has a relationship with the Company.
Company as a whole, including its strategy, structure, Accordingly, the Board believes that there are no such geographic spread of operations, financial position, markets, relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise products, technologies and people, as well as their legal of its independent judgement.
responsibilities as Directors and, where appropriate, any Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for a minimum training that is necessary for them to carry out their duties period of two years which is renewable by agreement with the effectively.
The Board and its Committees receive, in a timely Board and is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM.
manner, detailed information concerning the matters to be The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive discussed at meetings to enable them to make informed Directors are available for inspection at the Companys decisions.
The Directors have access to the advice and services registered office during normal business hours on weekdays of the Company Secretary whose removal may be effected and will also be available for inspection at the place of the only with the approval of the Board and can obtain AGM from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends.
The independent professional advice at the Companys expense Combined Code recommends the appointment of a senior in furtherance of their duties, if required.
independent Non-Executive Director, and Richard Gillingwater The Board ordinarily meets not less than five times a year and fulfilled this role in 2008.
The roles of Non-Executive Directors will hold additional meetings when circumstances require.
are to: During the year ended 3 January 2009, the Board met on five scrutinise the performance of management in meeting the occasions.
Between meetings, the Chairman and CEO update agreed objectives: the Non-Executive Directors on current matters and there is frequent contact to progress the affairs of the Company.
With help develop proposals on strategy: and the encouragement of the CEO, the Non-Executive Directors have regular contact with senior management through their monitor the reporting of performance, including satisfying presentations at Board meetings, at strategic reviews and on themselves as to the integrity of financial information and other occasions.
that financial controls and systems of risk management put in place by the Company are robust and effective.
Attendance by each individual Director at Board and principal Committee meetings held during 2008 Corporate Social Audit Remuneration Nomination Responsibility Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings held in 2008 54534 Meetings attended: David Newlands 5 n a 43 n a Richard Gillingwater 545 3 n a John McDonough 535 34 James Nicol 5 n a n a n a 4 Leo Quinn 535 3 n a David Richardson 54 n a 3 n a Struan Robertson 5 n a n a 34 John Zimmerman 5 n a n a n a n a By written resolution Notes n a not applicable where a Director is not a member of a Committee.
44 Key governance principles continued Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, 1.
Directors continued Nomination Committee and Corporate A.
The Board continued Social Responsibility Committee by invitation.
All of the Directors served throughout the year.
John These details are not included in the table McDonough and Leo Quinn were unable to attend one above.
On the rare occasion when a Director Audit Committee meeting and David Newlands was cannot attend a meeting, he will normally make unable to attend one Remuneration Committee his views on the agenda items known prior to meeting.
The remaining Directors attended all Board the meeting to the Chairman or, in respect of and relevant Committee meetings in 2008.
During the Committee meetings, to the Chairman of the year, other Directors have attended meetings of the respective Committee.
Directors membership of Committees Corporate Social General Audit Nomination Remuneration Responsibility Disclosure Purposes David Newlands CM C James Nicol MM C John Zimmerman MM Richard Gillingwater MMM John McDonough MM C M Leo Quinn MMM David Richardson CM Struan Robertson MC C Chairman M Member At the Companys forthcoming AGM, and in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Richard Gillingwater and Struan Robertson will retire from the Board by virtue of length of service and will seek reappointment.
Chairman and CEO C. Board Committees There is a clear division of responsibility between the The Board has established a number of committees and Chairman and the CEO, with neither having unfettered receives reports of their proceedings.
Each committee powers of decision with respect to substantial matters.
has its own delegated authority as defined in its terms The Chairman is responsible for running the Board and of reference which are reviewed periodically by the ensures that all Directors receive sufficient relevant Board.
The Board is satisfied that its committees have information on financial, business and corporate written terms of reference which conform with best matters to enable them to participate effectively in corporate governance practice.
The terms of reference Board decisions.
In advance of each meeting, the Board for all Board committees can be found under is provided with comprehensive briefing papers on Governance in the Responsibilities area of the items under consideration.
co. uk, or a copy can be obtained by application to the Company Secretary The Chairman, David Newlands, is also Chairman of at the Companys registered office.
KESA Electricals plc and PayPoint plc.
Whilst these are important appointments, the Board believes that the The Board appoints the chairmen and members of all Chairman continues to be able to carry out his duties Board committees upon the recommendation of the and responsibilities effectively for the Company.
The Company Secretary is of this, as set out in the Remuneration Committee Secretary to all Board committees.
The principal report, the Board renewed David Newlands letter of committees, their membership and a brief description appointment for a further three years from 18 February of their duties are set out below.
This was felt to be appropriate in order to take advantage of his knowledge of the Company, his Audit Committee experience of earlier recessions, his experience in Details of the Audit Committee and its work can be chairing Tomkins during the current period of found on pages 50 and 51. unprecedented economic turmoil and finally his guidance in relation to the refinancing of the Nomination Committee Companys banking facilities.
The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board on all proposed appointments of Directors The CEOs primary role is the running of the Companys through a formal and transparent procedure.
The businesses and the development and implementation Committee meets as and when required.
The Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and with the Chief Executive periodically, either together or separately, to consider and discuss a wide range of matters affecting the Company, its business, strategy and other matters.
Governance 45 Key governance principles In accordance with the Companys Articles of D. Board, Committee and Chairman evaluations Association, Directors are subject to reappointment Under the direction of the Senior Independent Director, at the AGM immediately following the date of their Richard Gillingwater, evaluations of the effectiveness of appointment and thereafter they have to seek the Board, its Committees and Chairman were reappointment no more than three years from the date conducted during the year.
The evaluation processes they were last reappointed.
The Committee followed the same approach as the previous year which recommends to the Board the names of the Directors drew on the experiences of the previous evaluations of who are to seek reappointment at the AGM in the Board and its Committees and concentrated on accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
six key elements: The Companies Act 2006 imposed new duties on the optimum mix of skills and knowledge amongst Directors to avoid a conflict of interests, particularly in the Directors: relation to third-party arrangements and, during the year, the Board delegated to the Nomination clarity of goals and processes: Committee the duty of looking at new appointees and examining any possible sources of potential conflict.
tailoring the evaluation to the specific circumstances This duty was incorporated into the Nomination of Tomkins: Committees terms of reference in July 2008.
The the culture of candour that encourages constructive Committee and the Board are aware of and support evaluation: the principles set out in section A.
4 of the Combined Code relating to appointments to the Board.
regular reviews of assessment criteria: and full disclosure of procedures and criteria to the Board.
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee meets Board and Committees at least three times a year.
The Committee is chaired A Board performance evaluation took place during the by an independent Non-Executive Director and its year, and a report was prepared and considered by the membership also includes the CEO.
Its principal role is Board.
The vast majority of questions were answered to determine, on behalf of the Board, the framework with positive comments and with scores indicating a or broad policy and objectives on CSR and, in particular, high degree of satisfaction with the Board, Committees in the areas of health, safety and the environment and and Chairman and there was a very strong conclusion propose any amendments to existing policies for that we have a well-functioning Board and approval by the Board.
It also reviews managements Committees.
performance in the achievement of HSE objectives and reviews HSE reports produced by business units for There were some suggestions for improvement, compliance with all local health, safety and including the allocation of more time on the environmental codes of practice, legislation and relevant Companys longer-term objectives and planning, with industry practice.
particular reference to the sufficiency of the number of Board meetings in the current macroeconomic climate.
More details of the work of the Corporate Social Executive and senior management succession planning Responsibility Committee can be found in the and talent development within the Company was Corporate Responsibility Report to shareholders another area which came under scrutiny, with available on the Companys website, particular reference to the positions of the Chairman, www.
and the CEO and his immediate reports.
Other areas considered were the effectiveness of Board activities in Remuneration Committee terms of considering certain financial and structural Details of the Remuneration Committee and its work issues in a proactive way and improvement of can be found on pages 52 to 60. budgetary control.
In relation to strategic planning and objectives, there were suggestions for improvement in Disclosure Committee simple KPIs to measure business performance as well as The Disclosure Committee meets as and when required financial performance, KPIs for CSR matters being of for the purpose of, inter alia, reviewing and approving particular use.
Suggestions for improving specific Nonfor release all price-sensitive information relating to the Executive Director contributions to the Board included Company and compliance with the Disclosure and more location visits.
Transparency Rules of the UKLA.
General Purposes Committee The General Purposes Committee meets as and when required.
It comprises Executive Directors and senior executives and the quorum requires the presence of at least one Executive Director.
The Committee deals principally with day-to-day matters of a routine nature and matters delegated to it by the Board.
Directors continued C. Whistleblower reporting procedures Under section 301 of Sarbanes-Oxley, all SEC-registered D. Board, Committee and Chairman evaluations companies, including non-US companies such as continued Tomkins, acting through the Audit Committee of the Board and Committees continued Board, must provide a procedure for the receipt, In relation to the Committees, the scores were high.
It retention and treatment of complaints received by the was noted that the Audit Committee is well served by Company regarding accounting, internal controls or staff functions and it was thought that both internal auditing matters.
The Audit Committee and the Board and external audit had worked well, though there was have established a procedure for the confidential and a request for more discussion and understanding of the anonymous submission by employees of concerns principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company regarding these matters.
In relation to the Remuneration Committee, it was suggested that more work on major 4.
Shareholder relations remuneration developments was needed.
The strong commitment to the CSR initiative was commended, The Company places a high degree of importance on together with the quality of review and effectiveness of maintaining good relationships and communications with the process and it was recommended that the CSR both institutional and private investors and ensures that Committee continue to support the environmental and shareholders are kept informed of significant Company community aspects of the CSR initiative.
To assist members of the Board to gain an understanding of Chairman the views of institutional shareholders, at each of its For the evaluation of the Chairman, the questionnaire meetings the Board receives an Investor Relations Report sought views across a broad range of his which covers a wide range of matters including a responsibilities.
There was considerable positive commentary on the perception of the Company and views feedback from Directors on the role of the Chairman expressed by the investment community, media reports, and his effective leadership of the Board, his interaction share price performance and analysis.
Analysts reports and with the CEO, his excellent relationship with members estimates are also made available to all Directors.
The of the Board, the high regard in which he is held by announcement of interim management statements, halfsenior management and, in particular, his efforts to year and full-year results provides opportunities for the ensure a clear distinction between the role of the Board Company to answer questions from institutional and that of management.
shareholders covering a wide range of topics.
The The Senior Independent Director discussed various Chairman, CEO, Finance Director and Investor Relations matters raised with the Chairman and the Nonstaff hold an ongoing dialogue with institutional Executive Directors as appropriate and arrangements shareholders to ensure the mutual understanding of were made to address the matters raised by the objectives.
The CEO and other senior executives participate respective evaluations.
in industry conferences which are attended by existing and potential shareholders.
The Company exercises care to ensure that all price-sensitive information is released to all 2.
Remuneration shareholders at the same time, as required by the Listing See the Remuneration Committee report on pages 52 to 60.
Rules of the UKLA and consistent with the SEC Regulation FD in the US.
The Companys website provides shareholders and potential 3.
Accountability and audit investors with information about the Company, including A.
Financial reporting annual and half-yearly reports, recent announcements, In the Directors report, the Board seeks to provide a investor presentations, share price information, Group detailed understanding of each business of the Group, policies, corporate responsibility and governance matters.
together with a balanced and understandable Shareholders are also able to put questions to the Company assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Shareholders also have the opportunity to attend the AGM B.
Internal control to put questions to the Board.
Full details of the 2009 Further information on the internal control AGM are in the Notice of Meeting.
It has been the environment within which the Group operates may be Companys practice to send the Notice of Meeting and found in the Directors statement on internal control on related papers to shareholders at least 20 working days pages 48 and 49. before the AGM and to propose separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
The Board notes that section 2 of the Combined Code seeks to encourage more active participation by institutional shareholders, including entering into a dialogue with companies and making considered use of their votes principles which the Company supports.
Governance 47 Key governance principles Substantial shareholdings Voting rights notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UKLA at 24 February 2009 are set out in the table below.
of shares voting rights Schroders plc 88,316,340 10.02 Sprucegrove Investment Management Limited 43,969,223 4.99 Invesco Ltd through AiM Trimark, Powershares etc.
43,431,651 4.93 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 42,965,662 4.87 Tradewinds Global Investors, LLC 39,043,040 4.43 Legal & General Group plc 35,075,908 3.98 A general summary of the significant ways in which the Shareholder rights Companys corporate governance differs from that The Companys issued share capital is comprised of followed by domestic US companies under the NYSEs ordinary shares of 9 cents each and deferred shares of listing standards, as required by section 303A.
The Companys authorised share capital previously follows: included convertible cumulative preference shares of $50 each and convertible cumulative redeemable preference Compensation of the CEO shares of $50 each, both of which were convertible into ordinary shares.
No preference shares were in issue at the Under 303A.
05 b, the compensation committee must beginning of 2008, and the authority for them was have a written charter that addresses the committees removed at the AGM on 1 May 2008.
See also notes 38 purpose and responsibilities which, inter alia, has and 39 to the Groups consolidated financial statements.
responsibility to review and approve corporate goals and objectives relevant to CEO compensation, evaluate the CEOs performance in light of those goals and objectives, Significant agreements and change of control and, either as a committee or together with the other The Group has issued bonds totalling 400 million.
The independent directors as directed by the board, determine terms of the bonds entitle the holders to require and approve the CEOs compensation level based on this redemption where there is a change of control of the evaluation.
Company combined with a ratings downgrade.
In addition, under the Groups 400 million credit facility, the lenders The Remuneration Committee of Tomkins, has been are entitled, on a change of control, to require prepayment delegated by the Board the authority to review and of amounts outstanding.
determine the total individual remuneration packages of each Executive Director for approval by the Board.
In addition, the service agreement of James Nicol entitles him to the payment of one years salary, the value of Re-appointment of independent external auditors certain benefits and certain additional bonus entitlements where his employment is terminated either by the The Companys practice, in accordance with UK company Company or by himself within three months after a law and the Combined Code in relation to the change of control.
appointment and termination of the external auditor, is that a recommendation is made by the Audit Committee to the Board, which will then make a recommendation to Compliance statement shareholders in general meeting.
This differs from the Except where indicated, the Company complied procedure in the US, where the external auditor is throughout the year ended 3 January 2009 with all the accountable to the audit committee, which has the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
The authority to appoint or dismiss the external auditors certifications of the CEO and Finance Director required without reference to shareholders.
under sections 302 and 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley, and the related rules of the SEC, will be filed as exhibits to the Corporate governance guidelines Companys Form 20-F. Pursuant to section 303A of the listing standards of the NYSE, the Foreign Private Issuer It is not the Companys practice for the Nomination Annual Written Affirmation was sent to the NYSE in June Committee to have responsibility for developing corporate 2008, affirming without qualification that Tomkins has governance principles, this being a matter for the entire complied with the requirements laid down by the NYSE Board.
This is a common approach amongst UK listed with such exceptions as are permitted for Foreign Private companies.
The evaluation of the Board, its Committees Issuers, as described below.
and Directors, is overseen by the Senior Independent Director.
