48 Internal control The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system Financial plans of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To fulfil Each business prepares financial plans in accordance with this responsibility, the Directors have established a Performance a prescribed format, which includes consideration of risks.
Management Framework within which each of the Groups Group-level management reviews the financial plans with the businesses operates.
Within this framework, the management business units and a summary is presented to the Board for of each of the businesses considers strategic, operational, approval.
commercial and financial risks, and identifies risk-mitigation actions.
Whilst acknowledging the overall responsibility for the Balance sheet reviews and walkthroughs of controls system of internal control, the Directors are aware that the Business unit and Group-level financial management conduct system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk periodic, on-site reviews of the underlying rationale, support of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide and controls for the significant line item components reasonable and not absolute assurance against material comprising the balance sheets for each business in the Group.
In 2008, an adjunct programme of remotely-conducted During the period under review, the Directors were not aware walkthroughs of controls over transaction processes for our of any control breakdowns which resulted in a material loss to newer, smaller businesses and joint ventures was initiated to the Group.
reach those distant locales cost effectively.
The Performance Management Framework, which includes Investment project authorisation an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, has been in place All significant investment project expenditures are subject to a throughout the financial year and up to the approval date of formal investment project authorisation process which takes the Directors Report and Accounts.
Each business units into account, inter alia, operational, financial and technical management identifies and assesses the key business risks risks.
Post-investment analysis is conducted to facilitate affecting the achievement of its objectives.
Business unit continuous improvement in the investment planning process, management also identifies the risk management processes including risk identification and mitigation.
used to mitigate the key risks to an acceptable level and, where appropriate, additional actions required to further manage and Reporting, analysis and forecasts mitigate them.
The risk summaries developed out of this All businesses are required to report monthly to Group-level process are updated at least annually.
In addition, Group-level management on financial performance.
Comparisons are made management considers those risks to the Groups strategic with plan, forecast and prior year, and significant variances and objectives that may not be identified and managed at the changes in the business environment are explained.
The key risks, which are detailed on pages business reassesses its forecast for the financial year on a 36 and 37, and mitigation strategies are also discussed at least monthly basis.
Quarterly, each business prepares a forecast annually with the Audit Committee as well as the full Board.
for the following 18 months and reviews projections for the current and following year.
The risk management processes described above are applied to major decision-making processes such as acquisitions as well as operational risks within the business including environmental, Financial strategy health and safety.
The financial strategy includes assessment of the major financial risks related to interest rate exposure, foreign currency The other key elements of the Performance Management exposure, debt maturity and liquidity.
There is a comprehensive Framework, which constitutes the control environment are: global insurance programme using the external insurance market and some limited use of an internal captive insurance Business strategy reviews company.
Group Treasury manages hedging activities, relating Each business is required to prepare a strategic position to financial risks, with external cover for net currency assessment taking into account the current and likely future transaction exposures.
The Group Tax function manages tax market environment and competitive position of the business compliance and tax risks associated with the Groups activities.
with specific consideration given to strategic risk.
Group-level The Audit Committee, through periodic direct reports from the management reviews the strategy with each business and the Group Treasurer and the Vice-President, Tax, oversees the Board is presented with a summary of the plans.
financial strategy as well as the tax strategy, and considers the associated risks and risk-management techniques being used Business reviews by the Group.
On a quarterly basis, Group-level management performs extensive reviews with each business.
These reviews consider current and projected financial and operating results, and address the progress of key strategic and operating initiatives and risk management activities.
Governance 49 Internal control Reporting certifications Internal Audit In connection with the preparation of the annual financial The Group has an established internal audit function: the statements, senior business general management and financial Vice-President, Internal Audit directs the activities of the management sign a certificate which includes a declaration internal auditors on a day-to-day basis and has a direct regarding the existence of internal controls, the proper reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
recording of transactions and the identification and evaluation Internal Audits responsibilities include performing independent of significant business risks.
These certifications were expanded objective assurance activities in order to evaluate the adequacy to encompass section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley in support of and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and statements required to be made by the Companys CEO and CFO.
The Internal Audit plan is constructed to provide geographic coverage on a cyclical basis while tailoring to address specific risk concerns.
During the Sarbanes-Oxley year, it reported regularly to the Audit Committee on its As a foreign private issuer listed on the NYSE in the US, the internal audit reviews of the Groups operations.
Group is subject to the provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley.
In particular, section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires certifications The Directors confirm that the effectiveness of the system of by management regarding the effectiveness of internal controls internal control for the year ended 3 January 2009 has been over financial reporting and requires the independent auditors reviewed in line with the criteria set out in the guidance for to express an opinion on such internal controls.
Accordingly, Directors in the Combined Code.
the Group undertakes each year a comprehensive, risk-based approach to testing its internal controls to ensure compliance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley.
The Companys CEO and CFO have issued their report attesting to the Groups compliance with section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley as at 3 January 2009.
While managements certification and the external auditors opinion on internal controls over financial reporting are necessarily reported in the Companys SEC filings, the results of its compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley also serve to underpin the internal control framework for the Group.
During the year ended 3 January 2009, there have not been any changes in the Group's internal controls over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Group's internal controls over financial reporting.
The CEO and the CFO have evaluated the effectiveness of the Companys disclosure controls and procedures as such term is defined in Rules 13a 15 e and 15d 15 e under the Exchange Act as at 3 January 2009.
Based on such evaluation, those officers have concluded that, as at 3 January 2009, the Companys disclosure controls and procedures are effective in alerting them on a timely basis to material information relating to the Company including its consolidated subsidiaries required to be included in the periodic filings under the Exchange Act.
