82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 45 AUDIT COMM ITTEE R EPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 Committee also invited the Group Chairman, the Finance R OLE OF TH E A UDIT Director, the Chief Operating Officer, the Group Financial C O MM ITTEE Controller, the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance The Audit Committee is responsible for: and the external auditors to attend each meeting.
During each The integrity of the financial statements of the Company and meeting, the external auditors and the Group Head of Busiany formal announcements relating to the Companys finanness Risk and Assurance were given the opportunity to talk cial performance, and reviewing significant financial with the Committee without the presence of management.
In reporting judgements contained therein: addition, during the year, the Committee Chairman held a Reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and, number of meetings with the Group Head of Business Risk and unless expressly addressed by the Board itself, Assurance and with the external auditors, all without managethe ment being present.
Companys internal control and risk management systems: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: M AI N A CTIVITIES OF TH E Making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be C O MM ITTEE DURI N G TH E YE AR put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment and remuneration of the At its meeting in February, the Committee reviewed the annual external auditors: financial statements of the Company and received reports from Reviewing the audit plans of the external auditors and for the internal auditors on internal control matters and from the monitoring the conduct of the audit: external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of Reviewing the external auditors independence and objectivity accounting policies, areas of judgment and the financial stateand the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into considments and their comments on statements concerning risk and eration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: internal control.
A similar review was undertaken at its July Reviewing the Companys policy on the engagement of the meeting when the interim statements were considered.
At these external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into meetings, and at its meetings in June and November, the account relevant guidance regarding the provision of nonCommittee also reviewed: audit services by an external audit firm.
The committees terms of reference and recommended The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the minor changes to the Board: Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considersAn evaluation of its work carried out as part of the Board that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendaevaluation process referred to on page 43, and reported to tions as to the steps to be taken.
the Board on this evaluation: The Committees full terms of reference are available on theAny comments received on its 2007 report from institutional investor bodies: Companys website, or on request to the Company Secretary.
The effectiveness of the system of internal financial control and the system for monitoring and reporting on risks faced C O M POSITIO N OF TH E by the Group: AUDIT C O MM ITTEE The strategy, staffing, processes and effectiveness of the Chris Bunker was Chairman of the Committee throughout 2008. internal audit department and recommended to the Board Michael Dearden was a member until his retirement on 11 minor changes to the terms of reference of that department: November 2008, when he was replaced by Andrew Simon.
JohnThe status of actions taken in response to recommendations Coleman was appointed a member on 28 January 2008, arising from internal audit work: following the resignation of Stephen Carter.
All members of theThe operation of the Groups whistleblowing policy: Committee are considered to be independent.
The CompanyThe policy on engagement of the external auditor for nonSecretary, Andrew Pike, is secretary to the Committee.
The Board audit work, as referred to below, and its policy on the employconsiders that Chris Bunker has the recent and relevant finanment of anyone previously employed by the external auditor: cial experience required by the Combined Code see also theThe plans presented by the external auditor for conduct of Board profiles on pages 40 and 41. the year-end audit including terms of engagement, fees and letters of representation: The effectiveness, independence, and objectivity of the MEETI N GS AN D ATTEN DAN CE external auditors, taking into account written assurances The Committee met four times during 2008 to consider inter provided by Deloitte LLP with regard to its quality and indealia, the annual and interim results.
The Chairman of the pendence controls, and its ethical standards: 45 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 46 A UDIT COMMITTEE REPOR T the auditors.
Any work for which the fee might exceed 50,000The Groups accounting policies and forthcoming changes to International Financial Reporting Standards and other reguis subject to competitive tender.
latory changes: In view of the exceptional market conditions experienced Methods of fraud prevention: during the year, Deloitte were requested to undertake a number Responsibilities in the Group for health & safety audits: of assignments associated with the Groups financing arrangeThe Groups tax planning.
ments and related tax matters.
The increased non-audit fees incurred during the year reflect these assignments.
However, the Committee remains satisfied that their independence and objecEXTER N AL A UDIT O RS tivity as auditors were not impaired.
The Company places great importance on the effectiveness and Deloitte LLP or its predecessor firms a leading international independence of its external auditors and together with them is audit partnership, was first appointed as auditor to Group careful to ensure their objectivity is not compromised.
At its companies more than 30 years ago and its fees are regularly November meeting, the auditors presented to the Committee compared with peer companies by the Committee.
There are no their plans for the forthcoming audit together with details of their contractual restrictions on the Group with regard to its appointproposed fees and how they ensure that their objectivity and ment.
In accordance with professional standards, the partner independence are not compromised.
responsible for the audit is changed every 5 years.
It is the role of the Committee to ensure compliance with the Following its February 2009 meeting, the Committee recomBoards policy in respect of services provided by, and fees paid mended to the Board that a resolution be put to shareholders at to, the auditors.
Audit fees are negotiated by the Finance Director the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of the and approved by the Audit Committee.
For other services that external auditors, and to authorise the Directors to fix their remucould be provided by the auditors, the Companys policy is: neration.
General Principles I N TER N AL A UDIT The Group should not employ the auditors to provide non-audit services where either the nature of the work or the extent of As well as its reviews of the internal audit departments strategy such services might impair the auditors independence or and processes, as described above, during its meetings in 2008, objectivity.
Any assignment to the auditors of non-audit work the Committee received presentations from the Group Head of with a fee over 25,000 requires the approval of the Chairman Business Risk and Assurance, about the results of work underof the Committee.
taken by the department, and approved its plans for work in 2009.
The Committee was satisfied with the overall effectiveWork as Auditor and Reporting Accountant ness of the department.
The auditors are invited by the Company to undertake those services that they are required to and are most suited to O VER VIEW perform.
Such work includes certification in respect of borrowings, Stock Exchange related reporting, review of the satisfaction As a result of its work during the year, and taking into account of share scheme performance criteria, accounting advice and the result of the Board and Committee evaluation process reviews of accounting standards and, where appropriate, assisdescribed on page 43, the Committee has concluded that it has tance with acquisitions.
acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external Taxation and internal auditors.
The auditors assist the Group to meet general tax compliance The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the requirements as well as providing advice on tax planning.
Should Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work opportunities arise for them to advise on special tax projects, of the Committee.
their suitability is assessed at the time to ensure it would not compromise their audit independence, with the work being tendered where appropriate.
Advisory and Consultancy Work On occasions, the auditors may be best placed to undertake other advisory or consultancy work due to their knowledge of Chris Bunker the Group.
However, certain types of work are prohibited, where Chairman, Audit Committee such work might prejudice the independence or objectivity of 18 February 2009 46
