82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 42 CORPORATE GOVER NAN CE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 regular board meetings, key financial information is circulated C O MBI NED C O D E to directors outside of meetings.
The Chairman has regular he London Stock Exchange first issued the Combined direct contact with the executive directors and keeps the nonCode on Corporate Governance the Code in 1998 executive directors informed of material developments between Tand it was revised most recently in June 2008.
1 of the Code is applicable to companies.
A statement explaining All directors have direct access to the Company Secretary how the Company has applied the principles and the extent to and may take independent professional advice in the furtherwhich it has complied with the provisions of the Code appears ance of their duties if necessary.
The Code contains fourteen main principles of goverdirectors & officers insurance in respect of the risk of claims finance, which are divided into the following four areas: against directors.
The Chairman held two meetings during the year with all the 1.
Directors non-executive directors, without the executive directors being present.
The Senior Independent Director held a number of indiThe Company is controlled through a board of directors, which presently comprises the Chairman, three executive and three vidual discussions with other directors during the year, without non-executive directors.
Tim Stevenson is Chairman and Geoff the Chairman being present, to evaluate the Chairmans Cooper is Chief Executive.
Chris Bunker is the Senior Indeperformance, and then provided feedback to the Board.
The pendent Director, a role which was fulfilled by Michael Dearden Board has an induction process for new directors, which is faciluntil his retirement on 11 November 2008.
John Coleman and itated by the Company Secretary.
The Chairman ensures that all Andrew Simon are also independent non-executive directors.
directors receive appropriate training on appointment and then Appointments of new directors are made by the Board on the subsequently as required, taking into account the need to update recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
It is intended to their skills and their knowledge of the Companys business.
They appoint a further non-executive director in the near future.
All are also regularly provided with information on forthcoming legal directors will submit themselves for re-election at least every and regulatory changes and corporate governance developthree years.
ments, and briefings on the key risks facing the Company, The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it including those identified in the Corporate Responsibility stateand meets at least ten times a year.
It is responsible for overall ment on page 39. group strategy, policy on corporate governance matters, acquiThe Board has established five standing committees: the sition policy, approval of major capital expenditure and considAudit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominaeration of significant financial and operational matters.
It tions Committee, the Health & Safety Committee and the Execmonitors the exposure to key business risks and reviews the utive Committee, which operate within defined terms of strategy of the trading subsidiaries, their annual budgets and reference.
Details are available on the Companys website or progress towards the achievement of those budgets and their may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The minutes of capital expenditure programmes.
It also considers legislative, committee meetings are available to all the directors.
The environmental, health & safety and employment issues.
The reports of the Audit Committee, Health & Safety Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee and are Board has approved a written statement of the division of key on pages 45 and 46, 47 and 48, 49 to 57 and 58 respectively.
responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring that each director The Executive Committee members are listed on page 41. is able to make an effective contribution.
He also monitors the Other executives are invited to attend from time to time in relainformation provided to the Board to ensure it is sufficient, timely tion to specific matters.
The principal purpose of the Committee and clear, and from time to time, the Board reviews the adequacy is to assist the executive directors in the performance of their of this information.
duties in relation in particular to: The Board held fourteen meetings during 2008, three ofStrategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and which were by conference telephone call.
One meeting dealt budgets: with consideration of the Companys long-term strategy andThe monitoring of operational and financial performance: seven meetings either included visits to parts of the CompanysThe assessment and control of risk: operations or included presentations by senior executives onThe prioritisation and allocation of resources.
Individual visits to operational sites The number of board and committee meetings attended by each by non-executive directors also occurred.
In addition to the director in whole or in part during the year was as follows: 42 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 43 CORPOR A TE GO VERN ANCE PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Health & Safety Executive No.
Number of meetings 144613 11 Attendances: C. J. Bunker 14411 - - J. P. Carter 14 3 - - 3 11 J. Coleman 14461 - - G. I. Cooper 14 - 6 1 - 11 M. B. Dearden 123413 - P. N. Hampden Smith 14 4 2 - - 11 A. H. Simon 13 - 6 1 3 - T. E. P. Stevenson 144613 - During the year, the Board undertook an evaluation of its review of the year and in the Finance Directors review of the performance and the performance of its committees and the year set out on pages 10 to 38.
The Board uses them, together individual directors.
This consisted of interviews by the Chairman with the Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9 to present a full with each other director and the Company Secretary separately, assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Direcfocussing on the operation of the Board and, its committees and tors responsibilities for the financial statements are described in particular on those matters identified in 2007 where measures on page 63. were taken to enhance performance.
These interviews formed the basis of a report by the Chairman that was the subject of a INTERNAL CONTROL discussion by the Board, which was satisfied that the process The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal showed that the Board and its committees worked effectively.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In designing the However, it agreed a number of measures, in particular relating system of internal control, consideration is given to the signifito the presentation of board business, aimed at further cant risks to the business, the probability of these risks manienhancing its performance.
A board evaluation process will be festing themselves and the most cost effective means of carried out in 2009. controlling them.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and therefore can only provide reasonable, and 2.
Directors Remuneration not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Remuneration Committee consists of the Chairman and The day-to-day operation of the system of internal control three independent non-executive directors, and meets at least has been delegated to executive directors and senior management, but the effectiveness of the system is regularly reviewed four times a year.
Its responsibilities include remuneration policy and a review of the performance of executive directors prior to by the Board in a process that accords with the Turnbull Guiddetermining their remuneration.
The remuneration of the nonance.
The Board and the Executive Committee receive regular executive directors is determined by the Board as a whole, reports on specific areas of risk.
If appropriate, these reports except that the Remuneration Committee makes a recommeninclude recommendations for improvement in controls or for the dation in respect of the Chairmans salary.
No director plays a management of those risks.
Measures to integrate risk managepart in the discussion about his own remuneration.
ment processes into the Groups operations, to extend awareThe Remuneration Report is set out on pages 49 to 57. ness of the importance of risk management and to ensure that recommended improvements are implemented, are regularly 3.
Accountability and Audit reviewed and refreshed.
Senior executives are asked, twice a A review of the performance of the Groups trading subsidiaries year, to confirm the adequacy of internal controls in their areas and the financial position of the Group is included in the Chief of responsibility, identify any control weaknesses, and to confirm Executives review of the year, in the Chief Operating Officers the accuracy and completeness of information given to the 43 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 44 CORPOR A TE GO VERN ANCE directors and to the external auditors.
holders, the Company issued two interim management stateIn conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has carried ments and one further trading update during the year.
All shareout an annual review of the overall effectiveness of the system of holders receive at least twenty working days notice of the Annual internal control and risk management procedures, during the year General Meeting at which all directors are available for quesand up until the date of approval of the annual report.
tions and a short business presentation takes place.
Each substantive issue is the subject of a separate resolution.
The AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS numbers of proxy votes for and against each resolution are The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 45 and 46. announced at the meeting, after the voting has taken place, and are subsequently published on the Companys website.
Relations with Shareholders The Company encourages two-way communication with both GOI N G C O N CER N its institutional and private investors and responds promptly to all enquiries received.
During the year the Chairman, the Senior This matter is dealt with on page 34 of the Finance Directors review of the year Independent Director and the executive directors, either sepa-.
rately or together, attended a number of meetings with analysts, and with shareholders representing circa 60% of the issued C O RPO R ATE GO VER NAN CE share capital.
The Chairman and executive directors report to C O M PLIAN CE S TATEMEN T the Board on any meetings with shareholders or analysts.
In addition, written reports about the Company by analysts or The Company is pleased to report that it has complied brokers are circulated to all directors.
throughout the year ended 31 December 2008 with the proviAs well as sending annual and interim reports to sharesions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
