Business & Financial Review Responsible leadership TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 30 Costa Rica Leadership Programme 16 senior managers attended the pilot event of our new leadership programme in Costa Rica.
A unique learning experience was created by providing business expertise and resources to a local eco-tourism business.
The four-day programme combined leadership and teamworking skills with physical hands-on construction work to help achieve the goals of growth and improved profitability.
Sustainable Development key achievements Our People TUI Travel is the top-placed travel company, at 16, in The TUI Travel operates a global portfolio of businesses, 2008 Good Companies Guide The Observers annual ethical employing approximately 50,000 people across the Group.
Although businesses within our portfolio are at various stages of development and maturity, together we share a common TUI Travel airlines saved 57,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide vision and set of values see page 7.
Our aim is to build in 2007 08, through the Groupwide Fuel Conservation the most capable and engaged teams to deliver optimum Programme.
The savings were made by implementing fuel business performance and thereby support the goals of efficiency measures in engineering, flight planning and delivering high performance to create superior shareholder management, maintenance and ground operations.
value and career fulfilment for all of our colleagues.
TUI Central Europe awarded the title of TUI Environmental We are proud of the commitment and dedication of our Champion to 101 hotels worldwide that met strict criteria for colleagues in delivering the levels of service and efficiency environmental protection and sustainable hotel management.
which make us stand out from our competitors.
Everyone is valued for their skills and talents and every effort is made to First Choice Holidays won the inaugural British Travel Award support them to achieve their full potential.
for Most Environmentally Responsible Large Tour Operator in 2007 and retained it in 2008.
Leadership capability is key to our success and we therefore continue to invest in developing our leaders.
A number of TUI Marines flagship yacht base in Tortola British Virgin our senior managers have had the opportunity of attending Islands is working to save water, with new laundry water a leadership programme working in a community in Costa recycling facilities handling 12,000 gallons per day, and a Rica.
This is a Groupwide programme, which builds the skills desalination plant which produces 65,000 gallons of fresh and capability of those with the greatest responsibility for water daily.
leadership and strategy, as well as supporting our sustainable development tourism goals.
There is also a Groupwide TUI UK & Ireland and its customers have donated over management programme targeted at middle management 2m to the World Care Fund, helping to fund more than 50 and an international trainee programme through which we sustainable tourism projects through The Travel Foundation recruit and develop young talent.
and funding 250,000 tonnes of Gold Standard carbon offsets through ClimateCare, equivalent to 20% of First Choice Retaining key people is critical to our continued business Airways carbon emissions success particularly in times of change.
Talent across the Group is reviewed regularly at Board level and our focus is to YMT Vacations in California switched to an  and develop individuals to drive the business forward.
friendly bus fleet through MTR Western which was awarded We actively promote people to career opportunities across the United Motorcoach Associations inaugural Green the Group to enhance the mix of professional, entrepreneurial Highways award.
To meet seasonal demands, where possible, we move our top performing frontline TUI Deutschland released an online green brochure colleagues between retail, overseas representation and airline highlighting its commitment to the environment.
This develops a multi-skilled workforce with year-round experience of delivering service to our customers.
For further information see page 38.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 31 Business & Financial Review Responsible leadership continued Blue Train holiday experience TUI Nordic has developed a train charter holiday package which is less carbon intensive than flying, reducing the environmental impact of customers travel to their holiday destination.
The Blue Train experience takes customers on an overnight train from Malmo in Sweden to many resorts across Europe.
Engaging with stakeholder groups with an interest in the Sustainable Development Group and its activities helps us to develop as a business Over the past year, sustainable development has been and to incorporate respect for the environment and people an important part of the business agenda for TUI Travel.
In the financial year, we developed a We have had an unrivalled opportunity to combine the directory of sustainable development-related stakeholder experience of two leaders in the field and incorporate contacts and consulted key stakeholders on the draft Group sustainable development into the values and structure sustainable development strategy.
of one of the worlds largest leisure travel companies.
Reporting and communications Strategy development In the past year we made two public disclosures of Commitment from the most senior level is vital for sustainable development progress.
TUI Travel completed embedding sustainable development throughout the Group.
its first submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project In the last year we developed a best practice governance in July 2008 and came second out of 72 companies in structure, strengthened the Group Sustainable Development the Hospitality, Leisure & Business Services sector.
Our team and appointed both a Board-level Steering Committee Environment & People update was published in September and Sector Coordinators for sustainable development.
For 2008 with independent assurance of our environmental more details on the governance of sustainable development data by Bureau Veritas.
Both reports can be downloaded see page 39. from www.
com tuitravel environment This years focus has been on developing a Groupwide Members of the Group Sustainable Development team sustainable development strategy in consultation with presented at high-profile industry events such as the Sector Coordinators, senior management and key Toronto Responsible Tourism conference November 2007, external stakeholders.
We conducted an internal audit of Oxford Universitys Climate Change and Tourism conference all Group businesses against sustainable development and the PATA CEO Challenge both April 2008.
KPIs, and delivered workshops to share and develop best environmental practice in our airlines.
Priorities for 2008 09 TUI Travels new Sustainable Development strategy is We seek to make sustainable development central to the focused around four themes: way we run and manage TUI Travel.
In early 2008, we Climate Change reducing the Groups carbon emissions commissioned Forum for the Future to develop a fact base from aviation, cruise ships, ground transport, major of sustainable development issues with particular reference premises and exclusive properties.
to climate change for consideration by the Managing Destinations optimising our holidays environmental, Directors of all Group businesses when developing their economic and social impact through influencing our business strategies.
supply chain and initiating projects in destinations.
Our People involving and empowering our colleagues Sustainable development was a key topic at this years in sustainable development.
inaugural Group Management Conference and the inclusion Our Customers creating and satisfying customer of Responsible Leadership as a Company value this year demand for more sustainable holidays, through means that all TUI Travel colleagues are actively considering customer communications and product innovation.
how these issues affect them.
Sustainable development was also included in the senior management leadership programme in Costa Rica.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 32 Sustainable tourism in Ecuador Sawadee Reizen has a long track record of working with sustainable tourism projects.
It offers an authentic and sustainable rural community tourism experience in Ecuador through working with UNORCAC, an organisation of rural and indigenous people.
UNORCAC represents 44 indigenous communities around Otavalo in Ecuador, with the objective of improving the living conditions of its members.
The key priorities and actions for 2008 09 are to to risk owners within the businesses.
As part of this complete Sector-specific sustainable development strategies process, existing controls are documented along with further and further embed sustainable development into Group action plans and delivery dates to treat and mitigate risk business strategies.
Further details of the Groups Sustainable appropriately.
Sector Boards have nominated Risk Champions Development strategy will be communicated in early to actively support the process, ensuring that it is embedded 2009, when we plan to publish our first full sustainable as an ongoing working practice and updated risk reports are development report as TUI Travel.
provided periodically at Sector Board level.
The framework is supported by a written procedure and facilitated by a webbased IT solution which is integrated with our Group incident Risk Management management system.
The Group has adopted a risk management framework that is designed to provide a formal structure through Reporting and Governance which the business will: Sectors report their risk profile on a quarterly basis.
The Group Risk Management function consolidates and Endeavour to reduce the exposure of all its businesses aggregates the Group risk profile, closely monitoring to risk as far as possible.
the businesses progress in relation to risk management Seek to recognise and derive the maximum benefit throughout the organisation.
from any opportunities identified through risk analysis.
Seek to achieve excellence through managing risk Group Risk Management presents the consolidated Group effectively throughout the organisation.
risk profile to the Audit Committee for review on a halfyearly basis.
Additionally, at each Audit Committee meeting, In order to achieve the framework objectives, a dedicated progress on the development of the framework is reported Group risk management team has been established and and individual sector management teams are invited to is developing the appropriate policies and procedures to review and discuss their risk profile on a rotational basis.
ensure that the risk management framework is embedded throughout the organisation on a consistent basis.
This Group Audit Services GAS play a key role in ensuring that framework has been designed and tested in line with best the businesses adhere to the risk management procedure.
practice and in accordance with Turnbull Guidance.
For More importantly, GAS also reviews and tests the evaluation further information on Corporate Governance see page 44. of reported risks ensuring that identified controls are tested and actions have been validated to appropriately mitigate risk The Process as reported.
The Groups risk framework seeks to engage the entire business.
A bespoke set of tools have been developed by the Group to support a common and effective approach to identification, evaluation and management of risk at a business level.
Active risk workshops, facilitated by Group Risk Management, are being carried out at functional and divisional levels within the sectors to introduce the new framework.
All risks identified and evaluated are assigned TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 33 Business & Financial Review Responsible leadership continued Groupwide risk treatment Risk Type Certain common risks exist across the Group and therefore benefit from a Group approach to mitigation such as customer and employee health and safety, business Hedging and cost base increases continuity, corporate and social responsibility and incident management response.
Policy and mitigation for such Groupwide risks are facilitated and supported by subject experts at the centre but responsibility for managing such risks clearly lies within the businesses themselves.
Due to the nature of our products and activities, customer health and safety related risks remain of paramount Macroeconomic importance to the Group.
For this reason, expertise has been consolidated in a central team to provide a greater degree of shared skills across the entire Group.
This team is responsible for developing Group policy on customer and employee health and safety and for facilitating practical application of such policies at varying levels across the Group, as required by individual source markets.
Andrew John, Group Legal Director & Company Secretary, takes responsibility for such health and safety matters on behalf of the Board and closely guides the Risk Management team in the development of Group health and safety risk mitigation framework.
Aviation financing A sample of some of the key risks that the Group is currently managing are: Health and safety Liquidity and cash management Integration and synergy TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 34 Risk Description Business Response Hedging and cost base increases Negative impact on margin from volatile Robust hedging policies in place across all source markets, controlled and foreign exchange and fuel price increases monitored by the Group treasury team.
and other general cost base increases.
Standing agenda item at the monthly Mainstream meeting.
Flexible cost base and strong focus on fixed cost reduction and transitioning fixed to variable costs.
Strong relationships and contracts with key suppliers to control cost increases.
Macroeconomic Decline in the economy and potential impact on Flexible business model beds and aircraft in order to change capacity in response consumer demand and capacity commitments.
to changes in demand with only 20% of Group bedstock committed and third party flying accounting for 30% of all tour operator Mainstream volume.
Majority of aircraft on operating leases with 43% of all leases due to expire in the next three years.
Strong focus on cost control.
Competitive supplier scale benefits postmerger.
Robust, aligned strategy across Group.
Strong balance sheet and secured lines of finance.
Aviation financing Ability to secure adequate funding for aircraft Long and well established partnerships with diverse group of institutions order book as a result of economic climate.
Deferring some new aircraft deliveries going forward.
Health and safety Accident or injury being caused to any of our Robust risk based approach to Health and Safety due diligence for Group colleagues or customers whilst in our care as a products and activities.
result of failure in our due diligence process or Destination based quality reviews carried out for areas of high risk.
Industry leading expertise employed at the centre to set policy and provide guidance.
Best practice sharing across new Group tailored to source market needs.
Robust airline safety management systems in place across the Group.
Liquidity and cash management Management of Group cash position over Daily cash balances reported and monitored.
diverse portfolio and potential risk to Strong focus on working capital management at the centre.
refinancing due to lack of credit within Implementing centralised cash management system post integration.
Daily counterparty reviews and investment control by central team.
Key lines of finance do not expire until 2011 TUI AG 0.8bn and 2012 RCF 0.8bn.
Strong relationships with banking and financing partners.
Integration and synergy Delay to synergy delivery and increase in Governance structure and reporting framework well established.
operating costs as a result of extended post Group integration steering committee review progress and monitor delivery against plan.
merger activity and instability with regards to Robust Human Resources plans in place focused on retention and people development.
people, processes and systems as a result of Regular reporting and communications in place.
Strong performance results delivered to date.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 35
