Governance Corporate Governance The Board of Directors Of the 11 Non-Executive Directors, two are not considered The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors to be independent Dr Michael Frenzel and Rainer which meets regularly, including away days, to review Feuerhake.
Rainer Feuerhake is also an Executive Director the strategy of the Group.
The schedule of matters of TUI AG which is a 51% shareholder of the Company.
specifically reserved to it for decision include: determining The appointments of Dr Frenzel and Rainer Feuerhake the strategy and control of the Group: amendments to the are pursuant to the Relationship Agreement between the structure and capital of the Group: approval of financial Company and TUI AG dated 29 June 2007. reporting and controls: oversight of the Groups internal controls: approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a The Non-Executive Directors considered to be independent significant size: acquisitions, disposals and share dealings: are Sir Michael Hodgkinson, Tony Campbell, Clare Chapman, Board membership and appointments: approval of Bill Dalton, Jeremy Hicks, Dr Erhard Schipporeit, Dr Albert remuneration of Directors and certain senior management: Schunk, Harold Sher and Giles Thorley.
corporate governance matters: and approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
The Board recognises that the Combined Code requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be The Board has delegated authority to the Committees of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has 17 the Board on specific matters.
The executive management members, of whom nine are deemed to be independent.
is delegated to the Chief Executive, Executive Directors and Dr Erhard Schipporeit, Dr Albert Schunk and Harold Sher certain other senior managers who, together, form the Group were appointed on 29 October 2007 and therefore the Management Board GMB, the membership of which is Company was compliant with provision A3.2 of the Combined disclosed on pages 12 and 13.
Membership of the Nomination, Code for 11 months of the year.
The Board is committed to Audit and Remuneration Committees are given on page 130. seek to ensure that its membership is regularly refreshed.
The Terms of Reference for the Board and its Committees are available for inspection on the Companys website and will be The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors available at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
are available for inspection at the Companys registered offices and will be available at the AGM which is scheduled to The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and take place on 5 February 2009.
Chief Executive is clearly established and has been agreed by the Board.
All Directors have access to the advice and All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at services of the Company Secretary and all Directors can intervals of no more than three years.
The Directors retiring take independent professional advice, if necessary, at by rotation and offering themselves for re-election at the the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought by AGM on 5 February 2009 are Paul Bowtell, Bill Dalton, any Director during the year.
The Company has in place Jeremy Hicks, Sir Michael Hodgkinson, Christoph Mueller appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal actions against and William Waggott.
its Directors and the level of cover is regularly reviewed.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Board Full biographical details of all Directors are on pages 36 procedures are followed including the formal minuting of any and 37.
Shareholders will be sent, as part of the papers unresolved concerns that Directors may have in connection accompanying the resolutions to re-elect the Non-Executive with the operation of the Company.
During the year, there Directors, statements as to why the Company believes they were no such unresolved issues.
The Chairman intends to confirm at the AGM that the performance of each individual continues to be The Chairman, Dr Michael Frenzel, did not meet the effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
independence criteria laid out in the provisions of the Combined Code at the time of his appointment.
This is The Company amended its articles of association in March because Dr Frenzel is the Chief Executive of TUI AG a 51% 2008 to deal with, amongst other things, the provisions on shareholder of the Company.
conflicts of interest in the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in October 2008.
Following this, the Company has Details of the Chairmans other significant commitments are put in place procedures for the disclosure and review of any given in his biography on page 37.
The Chairman does have a conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest which the Directors number of other external roles but the Board is satisfied that may have and for the authorisation of such conflict matters these do not interfere with the performance of his duties as by the Board.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict Chairman of the Company.
or potential conflict the Directors must have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of authorisation, may be reviewed at any time and will be reviewed formally by the Board on an annual basis.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 44 Nomination Committee The Committees duties, which were discharged during the The nomination of suitable candidates for approval of the year, include: Board of Directors to fill Executive and Non-Executive vacancies on the Board is carried out by the Nomination Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of Committee, which comprises the Chairman and four Nonthe Company and formal announcements relating to Executive Directors.
The composition of the Nomination the Companys financial performance and reviewing the Committee is set out on page 130. significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
In relation to the appointments of the three additional Reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and the Non-Executive Directors who were appointed in October Companys internal control and risk management systems.
2007, a description of the roles and required capabilities was Monitoring the effectiveness of the Companys Group prepared and external advisers brought suitable candidates Audit Services function through meetings with the Director to the attention of the Board.
These candidates were then of Group Audit Services, the agreement in advance of subjected to scrutiny by the Nomination Committee in annual work plans and the review of the results of the accordance with its Terms of Reference.
A meeting of the work undertaken.
Committee chaired by Sir Michael Hodgkinson NonThe consideration of the appointment, re-appointment and Executive Deputy Chairman was held to consider the removal of the external auditors and the approval of their appointments of Dr Erhard Schipporeit, Dr Albert Schunk remuneration and terms of their engagement.
The Nomination Committee considered  PwC were appointed auditors the existing skills and knowledge of the Board and the other of the shelf company Coppereagle PLC which changed significant commitments of Messrs Schipporeit, Schunk and its name to TUI Travel PLC on 21 June 2007.
The Sher as part of the appointment process.
Company was formed to effect the merger of First Choice Holidays PLC First Choice and certain entities within the Following the appointment of any new Director, the Tourism Division of TUI AG TUI companies.
As KPMG Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, were more familiar with the audit of First Choice Holidays ensures that a full, formal and tailored induction to the PLC it was agreed that they should act as the auditors of Company is provided.
A detailed Induction and Training the holding company TUI Travel PLC.
Accordingly, PwC Manual was provided to all the Directors of the Company resigned on 2 May 2008.
A statement of circumstances in during the year.
accordance with section 519 of the Companies Act 2006 was circulated to shareholders with an explanatory letter.
Audit Committee The Board decided that, in the first year of significant The Audit Committee operates under written Terms integration, each subsidiary company in the newlyof Reference to assist the Board in the discharge of its formed Group would be audited by the existing statutory duties with regard to the Groups accounts, the review of auditors and that PwC should remain the appointed internal controls and risk management systems and the auditor of all the predecessor TUI companies and that external audit.
KPMG Audit Plc should remain the appointed auditor of the First Choice companies.
The composition of the Audit Committee, which is chaired The level of remuneration for PwC and KPMG Audit Plc by Jeremy Hicks, is set out on page 130.
All members of the has been approved.
As part of the appointment process Committee are considered to be independent.
In accordance the independence of the auditors was also reviewed.
with the Combined Code, the Board is satisfied that Jeremy A policy for the engagement of the external auditors to Hicks has recent and relevant financial experience.
supply non-audit services was approved on 29 October 2007.
The Audit Committee has concluded that, in some The Chief Financial Officer, Director of Group Audit Services cases, the provision of non-audit services by the incumbent and the Director of Risk Management are normally invited to auditors, which does not impact on their independence in meetings and other Directors, including the Chief Executive providing their primary statutory audit role, is appropriate and the Non-Executive Directors, may also attend.
The and this has been communicated to the Board.
Auditor Chairman of the Committee also meets with the external independence and objectivity are safeguarded by the Audit auditors without management present.
Committee monitoring and approving, where appropriate, the nature of the work and the level of fees paid for nonaudit services as a proportion of the total audit fees paid.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 45 Governance Corporate Governance continued Board and Committee meetings Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Dr Michael Frenzel Non-Executive Chairman 7 7 N A 3 5 2 2 Sir Michael Hodgkinson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 7 7 N A N A 2 2 Peter Long Chief Executive 7 7 N A N A N A Paul Bowtell Chief Financial Officer 7 7 N A N A N A Johan Lundgren MD Northern Region 7 7 N A N A N A William Waggott Commercial Director 7 7 N A N A N A Christoph Mueller Aviation Director 7 7 N A N A N A Volker Bttcher MD Central Europe 6 7 N A N A N A Rainer Feuerhake Non-Executive Director 7 7 N A 4 5 2 2 Tony Campbell Non-Executive Director 6 7 7 8 5 5 N A Clare Chapman Non-Executive Director 5 7 N A 4 5 1 2 Bill Dalton Non-Executive Director 7 7 8 8 5 5 N A Jeremy Hicks Non-Executive Director 6 7 8 8 N A 2 2 Giles Thorley Non-Executive Director 5 7 5 8 N A N A Dr Albert Schunk Non-Executive Director 7 7 N A N A N A Harold Sher Non-Executive Director 7 7 N A N A N A Erhard Schipporeit Non-Executive Director 5 7 N A N A N A Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of Remuneration Committee effectiveness review meetings during the year in which the individual was a The performance of the Remuneration Committee was Board member.
reviewed during the year via a self-assessment and independent evaluation process.
The review concluded that Following the successful integration of the Groups businesses the Committee was operating in an effective manner.
as part of the merger process, the Chairman intends to hold his first meeting with the Non-Executive Directors without Internal control and risk the Executive Directors being present in early 2009.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while Board, Committees and individual performance the role of management is to implement Board policies on As the Board and its Committees were newly-formed risk and control.
following the September 2007 merger, it was deemed appropriate to commence the Companys performance The system of internal control is designed to manage and appraisal cycle after a sufficient number of meetings had mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve taken place for an informed view to be taken.
In pursuing these objectives, internal the cycle commenced in June 2008. controls which include financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management can only provide reasonable, To date, appraisals of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement have taken place and it is planned to appraise the Boards or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal and each individual Board members performance in early controls during the year.
The Chairmans evaluation will also take place in early 2009, led by the Senior Independent Director, and will take The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for into account the views of the Executive Directors.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group: that this has been in place for the year Audit Committee effectiveness review under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual An assessment of the effectiveness of the internal audit Report and Accounts: that this process is regularly reviewed function was conducted by questionnaire to members of the by the Board: and that the process accords with the Turnbull Audit Committee and other relevant executives during the Guidance.
The key elements of the control framework and year and the results were presented to the Audit Committee review processes in place across the Group are as follows: for consideration.
The review concluded that the Committee was operating in an effective manner.
The Board sets corporate strategy and business objectives.
The GMB and Sector management integrate these objectives into their operational and financial business plans.
Where areas for improvement in the system of internal control are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by the GMB and the Audit Committee.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 46 The GMB meets regularly together with other senior The Treasury position of the Group, including cash, foreign executives to consider Group operational and financial exchange and fuel hedging exposure, is managed centrally performance and business development.
The Chief in accordance with policies appropriate for each Sector Executive reports to the Board on behalf of the GMB and is the responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer and on significant changes in the business and the external Group Treasurer.
Reports and forecasts are submitted environment.
The Chief Financial Officer provides the monthly to the GMB and to each Board meeting.
Weekly Board with financial information which includes key meetings on liquidity and fuel hedging take place attended performance and risk indicators.
by the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Group Risk Management have designed a framework for Treasurer and other senior managers as deemed necessary.
risk management for TUI Travel PLC in line with Turnbull Financial forecasts, providing predicted results with guidance, integrated with the short and long-term business sensitivity analysis, are prepared routinely throughout the planning processes and are in the progress of rolling this year for review by the GMB and the Board.
These forecasts out across the organisation.
They review the progress in also include details of the Groups ongoing compliance line with this framework and report on the Group risk with its regulatory and banking requirements.
The Group profile on a quarterly basis, providing a consolidated has established investment appraisal and authorisation Group risk profile to the Audit Committee on a half-yearly procedures and its capital expenditure is reviewed against basis.
Additionally, at each Audit Committee meeting, the budgets which have been approved by the Board.
framework development is reported and individual Sector management teams are invited to review and discuss their Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken risk profile on a rotational basis.
where necessary to remedy any deficiencies identified through The Audit Committee, with assistance from certain related the Groups internal control and risk management processes.
management committees, oversees key risks, such as financial risk, health and safety, corporate and social There are policies and procedures for the reporting by responsibility and the environment, where such risks apply employees and the resolution of suspected fraudulent across all Sectors.
The Board believes that, in order to be activities.
It is the policy of the Group to employ staff and effective, risk management processes must be driven down management of high integrity, to train them appropriately to each operating unit.
Accordingly, each Sector Board now and to require compliance with all relevant laws, regulations addresses risk management as a standing agenda item and internal policies.
The Group has independent thirdand is responsible for ensuring that the risks facing that party reporting mechanisms that allow employees to raise Sectors businesses are identified and that related action concerns on financial reporting or other matters.
Sectors formally report their risk reports received are passed direct to Group Audit Services profile on a quarterly basis.
which acknowledges receipt and periodically reports back The Group Audit Services function independently reviews on a confidential basis to the independent third-party on the risk identification procedures and control processes any action taken.
Within its regular report to the Audit implemented by management and reports its findings at Committee, Group Audit Services provides a summary each Audit Committee meeting, or more frequently of any confidential reports received and actions taken.
monthly report is also produced which includes a summary The Audit Committee reviews the proposed work plans of all calls received highlighting any issues raised.
For further of the Group Audit Services function: reports issued by information on risk management see page 33.
Group Audit Services on the Groups risk assessment process: the system of internal control as well as reports on systems: and controls from the external auditors covering material weaknesses.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on the outcome of the Audit Committee meetings held and the Board receives the minutes of all such meetings.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 47 Governance Corporate Governance continued Communication with shareholders Combined Code Provisions The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer hold regular For the reasons disclosed above and in the Remuneration meetings with major shareholders to review the Groups report on page 49, during the year the Company did not performance and prospects.
The views of shareholders are fully comply with the following provisions often for reasons communicated to all members of the Board following such associated with the timing of the merger: meetings.
During the course of these meetings the issue of governance is discussed.
Presentations to major shareholders Code Provision A1.3.
The Chairman should hold meetings are made at least twice yearly, after the announcement of with only the Non-Executives present.
Led by the Senior the interim and preliminary results, details of which, together Independent Director, the Non-Executives should meet with the Groups financial reports and other announcements, without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise can be accessed via the Groups website www.
com the Chairmans performance and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
The Combined Code recommends that the Senior Code Provision A2.2.
The Chairman should on appointment Independent Director meets with a range of major meet the independence criteria set out in Code A3.1.
shareholders to gain an understanding of their views.
Half the Board, excluding the practice and, as a result of the extensive investor feedback Chairman, should comprise independent Non-Executive provided by the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Directors compliant for 11 months following appointment Officer, the Senior Independent Director and other Nonof additional Non-Executive Directors in October 2007.
Executive Directors believe that they are aware of such issues Code Provision A6.1.
The Board should state in the and therefore considered that it was not necessary to arrange Annual Report how performance evaluation of the meetings with major shareholders for this purpose during the Board, its Committees and its individual Directors has year.
However, they would make themselves available if any been conducted.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by major shareholder requested such a meeting.
the Senior Independent Director should be responsible for performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into There is also an opportunity for shareholders to question account the views of the Executive Directors.
the Chairman and other Directors including the Chairmen Code Provision B2.1.
The Remuneration Committee of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees at should all be independent Non-Executive Directors.
This forum also provides NonCode Provision D1.1.
The Senior Independent Director Executive Directors with the opportunity to discuss the views should meet with a range of major shareholders to of shareholders with them directly.
listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major At general meetings: shareholders.
The Compan y prepares separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue and does not combine resolutions together inappropriately.
A schedule of pr oxy votes cast is made available for inspection at the conclusion of the proceedings.
The Annual R eport and Accounts is laid before shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 48
