Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance Compliance with the Combined Code Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on corporate governance the Code There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman, The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders Pat Plunkett, and the Chief Executive Officer, Aidan Heavey, for the Groups standard of governance and this report, to ensure an appropriate balance of responsibility and together with the Directors remuneration report, aims accountability.
The division of responsibilities is clearly to demonstrate how the principles of good governance established and has been set out in writing and agreed promoted by the Code have been and will continue to be by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the effective running of the This report explains how the Company has applied the Board, ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive principles set out in Section 1 of the Code.
It also discloses part in the development and determination of the Groups the extent to which the Company has complied with the strategy, and acting as guardian and facilitator of the detailed provisions of the Code.
Throughout 2008 and up to the date of approval of this The Chief Executive is responsible for managing the Groups Annual Report, the Group has complied with the provisions business, proposing and developing the Groups strategy of the Code except that, for the period from 1 January to and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the 14 May 2008, independent non-executive Directors did not Board and, as leader of the executive team, implementing comprise at least half the Board excluding the Chairman.
the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
In addition, The Board considered that its composition during this period the Chief Executive is responsible for maintaining regular was appropriate for its needs, given the wide range of skills, dialogue with shareholders as part of the Groups overall expertise and experience amongst its members.
With the investor relations programme.
appointment of Ann Grant as a non-executive Director on 15 May 2008, the Group became fully compliant with Non-executive Directors the Code.
To support the principles of good corporate Appointment governance, the Board and its Committees operate as Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of described below.
three years, which may be extended by mutual agreement subject to satisfactory performance.
The letters of Board of Directors appointment of each non-executive Director are available Role of the Board for inspection at the registered office.
The Board sets the Groups strategic aims, ensuring that Meetings of non-executive Directors the necessary resources are in place to achieve those aims, In addition to their attendance at Board and, as appropriate, and reviews management and financial performance.
It is Committee meetings, the non-executive Directors also met accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery formally on two occasions during 2008 without executive of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term management present.
At these meetings, the non-executive shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Board directs and Directors examined and reviewed the performance of the monitors the Groups affairs within a framework of controls executive management.
This review process is in part dealt which enable risk to be assessed and managed effectively with by the Board Committees referred to below.
Separately, through clear procedures, lines of responsibility and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer held informal delegated authorities.
The Board also has responsibility for meetings with the non-executive Directors to discuss issues setting the Groups core values and standards of business affecting the Group, such as target objectives, strategy, key conduct and for ensuring that these, together with the performance indicators and remuneration matters.
Groups obligations to its stakeholders, are widely understood throughout the Group.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director is Steven McTiernan.
In this Composition role Mr McTiernan is available to shareholders who have The Board currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the five Executive Directors and five independent non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer or Directors.
Each of the Executive Directors has extensive where such contact is inappropriate.
No such meetings were knowledge of the oil and gas industry.
Together, the held during the year.
non-executive Directors bring a broad range of business, commercial and other relevant experience to the Board, Independence and conflicts which is vital to the management of an expanding The Board considers each of the current non-executive international company.
Three of the five non-executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement and Directors either currently hold or previously held there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to appointments in oil and gas companies or companies with affect or could appear to affect the judgement of any Director.
Biographical details of the Board members, With effect from 1 October 2008, a Director has a duty to including details of any other major directorships held, are set avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct out on pages 56 and 57. or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the independence of those Directors who have appointments on the boards of, 58 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements or relationships with, companies outside the Group.
The Insurance cover Board requires Directors to declare all appointments and The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability other situations which could result in a possible conflict of insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
interest and has adopted appropriate processes to manage Matters reserved and, if appropriate, approve any such conflicts.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for Board approval Election and re-election is in place and is reviewed annually.
The matters reserved All new Directors are required by the Companys Articles of include amongst others : Association to be elected by shareholders at the first Annual agreeing the Groups overall strategy: General Meeting AGM after their appointment.
Subsequently, approval of financial statements, material acquisitions Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every and disposals, material contracts, major capital three years.
Where a non-executive Director has served expenditure projects and budgets: and longer than nine years, it is Board policy that the Director be a regular review of the Groups overall corporate subject thereafter to annual re-election in accordance with governance arrangements.
The Directors seeking re-election at the 2009 AGM are identified on page 77 of this annual report and in the Certain other matters are delegated by the Board to the separate Notice of AGM that accompanies this document.
Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, each of which is described in more detail below.
How the Board operates Subject to these matters, the Board delegates authority for Board meetings the management of the day-to-day business and operational The Board holds scheduled meetings regularly during the matters to the Chief Executive Officer and the other year and meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
The Board Executive Directors who form the Executive Committee.
This has arranged to hold at least one Board meeting each year Committee meets weekly and is responsible for implementing at one of the overseas offices of the Group.
This provides Group policy and monitoring the detailed performance of all senior managers from across the Group the opportunity aspects of the business.
The Executive Committee is assisted to present to the Board and to meet the Board members by the Senior Management Team SMT which was established informally.
It also provides the Board with an opportunity during 2008.
The SMT meets fortnightly and comprises to assess senior managers at first hand.
a number of senior financial, operating and other The attendance record of each Director is shown in the table functional heads.
During 2008, the Board met formally on 11 Attendance at meetings occasions, including two formal strategy review meetings The attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and its held with senior management present.
In addition to the Committees during 2008 was as follows: formal meetings of the Board, the Chairman and Chief Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Executive Officer maintain frequent contact with the other No.
of Meetings 11 4 3 6 Directors to discuss any issues of concern they may have 1 Pat Plunkett 8 11 2 3 4 6 relating to the Group or as regards their area of responsibility and to keep them fully briefed on the Groups operations.
Aidan Heavey 11 11 3 3 David Bamford 11 11 4 4 3 3 6 6 Information flow 2 Ann Grant 7 7 2 2 1 1 2 2 Directors have access to a regular supply of financial, Angus McCoss 11 11 operational, strategic and regulatory information to assist them in the discharge of their duties.
Much of this information Paul McDade 9 11 is provided as part of the normal management reporting Steven McTiernan 11 11 4 4 3 3 6 6 process.
Board papers are circulated in time to allow Graham Martin 11 11 Directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
Clare Spottiswoode 11 11 4 4 3 3 6 6 In addition, Board meetings generally include a review of 3 Ian Springett 4 4 the history, performance and future potential of a material David Williams 11 11 4 4 3 3 6 6 individual asset or business unit.
This is designed to ensure Directors leaving that all material assets are considered on a cyclical basis and the Board in 2008 to enable Board members to familiarise themselves with the 4 Tom Hickey 7 7 key assets and operations of the Group.
5 Matthew ODonoghue 2 2 Independent professional advice 1.
Pat Plunkett, Chairman, was unable to attend a number of meetings due to illness.
In accordance with Board policy, all Directors and Mr McTiernan, the Senior Independent Director, chaired the Board meetings in Committees have access to independent professional advice, his absence.
at the Companys expense, as and when required.
Ann Grant was appointed to the Board on 15 May 2008.
Ian Springett was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2008.
Tom Hickey resigned as a Director on 1 September 2008.
Matthew ODonoghue retired from the Board on 31 March 2008.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 59 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Board performance evaluation Induction Given the number of changes to the Board in 2008, the All new Directors receive an induction as soon as practicable Directors agreed that the annual Board performance after appointment.
This includes meetings with senior evaluation, and that of its Committees and individual Directors management, functional and business unit heads and for 2008, should be conducted by way of an internal review.
where appropriate, visits to the principal offices.
The The review commenced with the Directors noting the matters Company Secretary also provides new Directors with an highlighted in the previous years external evaluation report, overview of their duties as Directors, corporate governance the consequential objectives set by the Board for itself for policies and established Board procedures as part of the 2008 and the level to which such objectives had been achieved.
This was followed by a series of discussions of the issues Continuing professional development arising and which took the form of one-to-one interviews with All members of the Board have access to appropriate the Chairman: a facilitated discussion among the Executives: training in respect of their obligations and duties as various separate discussions among the non-executives and Directors, and during the year, a number of the Directors a full Board discussion of the issues.
attended external seminars on relevant topics.
In addition, In summary, the Board considered that good progress specific briefings were also given to the Board to ensure had been made towards achieving the Board objectives Board members remain up-to-date with current regulations set for 2008.
In particular, the Board was rebalanced and developments.
These included recent developments in favour of the nonexecutives following the retirement in company law brought in by the Companies Act 2006. of Matt ODonoghue and the addition of Ann Grant as an additional non-executive Director, while improvements were made in the areas of Board induction, training and administration.
However, the Board also recognised that in certain areas there was room for improvement.
For example, the review concluded that given the extraordinary growth and success of the Group and the resultant challenges, more time at Board meetings could have been devoted to strategic planning rather than routine business and that the visibility of all Directors across the Groups operations should continue to be increased.
The view was also taken that while the Nominations Committee had been very successful in its role in the appointments made to the Board in 2008, more focus needed to be given to Board level succession planning issues.
Each of the areas which were identified for improvement has now been incorporated in a revised set of objectives for the Board for 2009.
The review concluded that the Board continues to operate effectively and that its functioning had not been adversely affected by the various changes to the Board in 2008.
Board meetings continue to be conducted in a manner that encourages open and honest discussion.
The internal review also confirmed that Board Committees continue to function effectively within clear terms of reference although two areas were identified for particular consideration in 2009.
Firstly, whether it continues to be appropriate for all non-executive Directors to participate in each Committee, and secondly, to establish a better mechanism for the fuller and timely reporting to the Board of the deliberations of Committee meetings.
In that regard, and to facilitate better circulation of Board papers, the Board agreed to investigate the suitability for Tullow of a web-based meeting administration system.
The Chairman has held discussions with each of the Directors on his or her individual performance and separately the non-executive Directors have reviewed the performance of the Chairman with input from the Executive Directors.
The Board is of the view that each non-executive Director commits sufficient time to discharge his or her duties effectively.
60 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Committees processes put in place to ensure segregation of audit The Board has established the following principal and non-audit roles, Deloitte LLP are required as part Committees, each of which has written terms of reference of the assurance process in relation to the audit, to confirm approved by the Board setting out its authority and duties.
to the Committee that they have both the appropriate Copies of the terms of reference which were reviewed and independence and objectivity to allow them to continue to updated where necessary during the year, can be viewed on serve the members of the Company.
This confirmation was the Investor Relations section of the Companys website: given and no matters of concern in relation to the above www.
Hard copies can also be obtained from were identified by the Committee.
The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Internal Audit Manager, the Group Finance Manager and representatives of the Audit Committee external auditors normally attend meetings of the Audit Committee at the invitation of the Committee.
The Chairman David Williams, Chairman of the Board also attends meetings of the Committee by David Bamford invitation.
The external auditors have unrestricted access Ann Grant appointed 15 May 2008 to the Committee Chairman.
During the 2008 audit process, Steven McTiernan the Audit Committee Chairman met with Deloittes Audit Clare Spottiswoode Engagement Partner without the presence of management.
Main responsibilities In 2008, the Audit Committee met on four occasions.
The key Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements work undertaken by the Committee was as follows: and formal announcements relating to the Groups Consideration and review of annual and interim financial performance: financial statements Reviewing significant financial reporting issues The Committee met with the external auditors as a part and accounting policies and disclosures in of the interim and final accounts approval process.
financial reports: Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal During this exercise the Committee considered the most control procedures and risk management systems: appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or Considering how the Groups internal audit judgemental matters identified during the audit, as well requirements shall be satisfied and making as any recommendations or observations made by the recommendations to the Board: external auditors.
Making recommendations to the Board on the Audit planning and update on relevant accounting appointment or re-appointment of the Groups developments external auditors: Following the Groups adoption of IFRS in 2004 05, Overseeing the Boards relationship with the external there were limited further regulatory or financial auditors and, where appropriate, the selection of new accounting changes during 2008.
These changes are external auditors: and described in the accounting policies note on page 85.
Ensuring that an effective whistle-blowing procedure is in place.
Consideration and approval of the risk management framework, annual Internal Audit Plan and periodic reports from Internal Audit David Williams, who is Chairman of the Committee, is a The Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access Chartered Accountant and until his retirement in 2006 was and responsibility to the Audit Committee.
His main Finance Director of Bunzl plc.
Currently, he also chairs the responsibilities include: evaluating and developing the audit committees of Meggitt PLC, Mondi plc and DP World Groups overall control environment, operating efficiency Limited and is a member of the audit committee of Taylor and risk identification and management at operating, Wimpey plc.
For the purposes of the Combined Code, regional and corporate levels.
In fulfilling his role, the David Williams is considered by the Board to have recent Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access to the and relevant financial experience.
In addition, the other Committee without reference to executive management.
members of the Committee have a range of financial, During 2008, the Audit Committee Chairman met with the commercial and other relevant experience.
Group Internal Audit Manager without the presence of The Groups external auditors are Deloitte LLP and the management.
The Committee approved the programme Committee closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit of 2008 internal audit work aimed at addressing both services they provide to the Group.
Non-audit services are financial and overall risk management objectives normally limited to assignments that are closely related to identified within the Group.
A number of internal audit the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that reviews were undertaken during 2008 covering a range a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
A policy of financial and business processes in the Groups three for the engagement of external auditors to supply non-audit main business units in London, Dublin and Cape Town.
services was implemented during the year formalising these Detailed results from these reviews were reported to arrangements.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the external management and in summary to the Audit Committee auditors in respect of audit and non-audit work is included during the year.
Recommendations made as a result in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
In addition to of the work of Internal Audit are tracked for timely Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 61 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued implementation and reported to the Audit Committee Nominations Committee periodically.
No significant weaknesses were identified as a result of risk management and internal controls Pat Plunkett, Chairman reviews undertaken by Internal Audit during 2008.
The Group also undertook regular audits of non-operated David Bamford joint ventures under the supervision of business unit Ann Grant appointed 15 May 2008 management and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
Aidan Heavey Steven McTiernan Updated whistle-blowing procedures for the Group were Clare Spottiswoode implemented during the year.
The Committee considers the whistle-blowing procedures to be appropriate for the David Williams size and scale of the Group.
Main responsibilities Review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the During the year, the Audit Committee completed a review Board and making recommendations to the Board of the effectiveness of external audit, internal audit and with regard to any changes required: of the Audit Committee itself through a series of Succession planning for Directors and other questionnaires answered by key stakeholders.
Internal senior executives: Audit co-ordinated the review with results presented to Identifying and nominating, for Board approval, the members of the Audit Committee.
The Committee candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when was considered to be operating effectively and in they arise: accordance with the guidance recommended by the Reviewing annually the time commitment required Smith Committee included in the Combined Code.
of non-executive Directors: and A number of enhancements to current processes were Making recommendations to the Board with regard implemented during 2008 that have improved the to membership of the Audit and Remuneration effectiveness of the Committee further.
The internal Committees in consultation with the Chairman of audit and external audit processes were also each Committee.
considered to be operating effectively.
The Committee comprises all the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive and meets as required.
The Committee met three times in 2008, primarily to review Board and Board Committee composition and succession matters.
The Committee reported in the 2007 Annual Report that it was in the process of interviewing a shortlist of candidates for the role of an additional non-executive Director.
The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board that Ann Grant be appointed.
The appointment was confirmed unanimously by the Board and announced at the 2008 AGM to take effect on 15 May 2008.
On 30 April 2008, Tom Hickey, Chief Financial Officer, announced that he would be stepping down as a member of the Board.
The Committee then embarked on a selection process for a new Chief Financial Officer.
It was assisted in this search by Spencer Stuart who drew up a list of potential internal and external candidates, from which two were shortlisted to meet all members of the Board.
The Board was unanimous in its decision to appoint Ian Springett as Chief Financial Officer and as a Director of the Company: the appointment being announced on 27 August 2008 to take effect on 1 September 2008.
62 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Remuneration Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Clare Spottiswoode, Chairman Graham Brunton, Head of EHS, Chairman David Bamford Ann Grant, Non-executive Director appointed on Ann Grant appointed 15 May 2008 1 January 2009 Steven McTiernan Paul McDade, Chief Operating Officer Pat Plunkett Kevin Quinn, Business Unit Manager South Asia and South America David Williams Bill Torr, General Manager Cape Town Office Main responsibilities Caragh Whale, EHS Reporting and Communications Determining and agreeing with the Board the Co-ordinator remuneration policy for the Chief Executive Officer, Linda Joseph, Cape Town Office Manager Chairman, Executive Directors and senior executives: Ahlem Gamri, London Staff Representative Approving the design of, and determining targets for, Sharan Dhami, Investor Relations Assistant an annual performance-related pay scheme for the Executive Directors and senior executives: Oliver McCredie, CSR Advisor Reviewing the design of share incentive plans for Main responsibilities approval by the Board and shareholders and Manage the process for submission, assessment and determining the annual award policy to Executive approval of CSR expenditure undertaken by Tullow Directors and senior executives under existing Group-wide: plans: and Consider and propose an annual budget for CSR Within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the activities to the Board: remainder of the remuneration packages principally Evolve and further develop Tullows social and ethical comprising salary and pension for each Executive policies as part of the overall risk management Director and senior executive.
framework of the business: Prepare the annual CSR Report: The Directors remuneration report on pages 66 to 75 Review the internal CSR programme, ensuring contains further details of the role and activities of the co-ordination between internal and external activities Remuneration Committee.
and ensuring that the internal CSR function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Group: and Consider other CSR matters as specified by the Board.
In addition to the three principal Committees, the Board has established a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
This Committee is responsible for managing Tullows social investments.
This includes sponsorships, charitable donations and Working with Communities initiatives.
Tullows CSR strategy aligns social investment with key areas and countries for business development.
Tullows CSR funding is a combination of licence commitments and discretionary spending.
The focus of these projects is on improving education and health standards, developing local enterprises and fulfilling basic human needs, such as potable water.
Projects considered will be mainly recurring, long-term investments where Tullow has established oil and or gas production or is a key country for development.
One-off investments are also undertaken to ensure Tullow generates immediate community development benefits.
Overall, Tullows objective is to make a tangible, positive difference and to foster and support longer-term developments and self-sustaining communities.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 63 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Shareholder relations Internal controls Communication with shareholders is given high priority and The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups there is regular dialogue with institutional investors, as well and the Companys systems of internal control, which are as general presentations to analysts at the time of the release designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure of the annual and interim results.
Throughout 2008, Executive the reliability of financial information for both internal use and Directors and senior management met with institutional external publication and comply with the Turnbull Committee investors in London and across the UK, as well as in Dublin guidance on the Combined Code.
The Groups internal control and several other European cities.
Three roadshows took procedures require technical, financial and Board approval place in North America and attendances at several UK and for all projects.
All major expenditures require senior European conferences provided for comprehensive and management approval at the appropriate stages of each engaging dialogue with shareholders.
Overall control is ensured by a regular detailed Capital Markets Day was hosted for analysts in the UK with reporting system covering both technical progress of projects Tullows Ghanaian operations being the focus of the event.
and the state of the Groups financial affairs.
The Board This annual event is scheduled to be repeated later in 2009. has put in place procedures for identifying, evaluating and The Board receives regular investor relations reports covering managing any significant risks that face the Group.
Risk key investor meetings and activities, as well as shareholder assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the annual and investor feedback.
The Group issues its results and other planning cycle.
Each business unit documents its strategic news releases promptly via the London Stock Exchanges objectives and the significant risks in achieving them and Regulatory News Service and publishes them on the regularly reports on progress against these objectives.
There Investor Relations section of the Companys website: is a comprehensive budgeting and planning system for all www.
Regular updates to record news in items of expenditure with an annual budget approved by relation to the Group and the status of exploration and the Board.
Actual results are reported against budget on a development programmes are also included on the website.
Revised financial forecasts for the year and Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to financial projections for future years are regularly prepared.
receive these news updates by email by registering online The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effectiveness of on the website.
The Chairman is available to meet with the Groups risk management activities and internal control institutional shareholders to discuss any issues and address processes.
Any system of internal control can provide only any concerns in relation to the Companys governance and reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material strategy.
Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of attend meetings with major shareholders and are available failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
The to attend if requested to do so.
Meetings are also held with Boards objective is to ensure Tullow has appropriate systems the corporate governance representatives of institutional in place for the identification and management of risks.
The Board receives reports from business unit and corporate At the AGM, a business presentation is provided for the teams throughout the year to enable them to assess on an benefit of shareholders.
Individual shareholders are given ongoing basis the effectiveness of the system of internal the opportunity to put questions to the Chairman, the controls and risk management.
chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees and to other members of the Board.
In addition, During the year, the Group Internal Audit Manager reviewed a the Board is committed to maintaining strong links with its number of areas of risk and his findings were reported to the significant Irish shareholder base and holds a business Audit Committee.
No significant weaknesses were identified.
presentation in Dublin following the AGM to allow these The Board has confirmed that through its Audit Committee shareholders similar access to the Company.
Notice of the it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before financial, operational and compliance controls and risk the meeting and details of proxy votes for and against each management, and considers that the system of internal resolution, together with votes withheld, are made available controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and after the vote has been dealt with on a show of hands.
up to the date on which the financial statements were signed.
All shareholders are offered the choice of receiving shareholder documentation, including the Annual Report, electronically or in paper format as well as the choice of submitting proxy votes either electronically or by post.
64 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Going concern The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk.
Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in commodity prices and different production rates from the Groups portfolio of producing fields.
The Group normally seeks to ensure that it has a minimum ongoing capacity of 200 million for a period of at least 12 months to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Following the equity placing announced in January 2009 and securing the US$2 billion financing in March 2009, the Groups forecasts and projections show that there is significant capacity and financial flexibility for the 12 months from the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Although there is considerable economic uncertainty at the present time, after taking account of the above, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Further information which is relevant to the application of the going concern assumption is provided in Notes 16 and 17 to the Financial Statements and the sections related to funding within the Business Review.
Pat Plunkett Chairman 10 March 2009 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 65
