47 Corporate governance statement Introduction The Board of UBM is responsible for the Groups policy on corporate governance.
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of financial reporting, transparency and business integrity in all the Groups undertakings.
This statement explains how UBM has applied the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
The directors consider that during 2008 UBM complied with all provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code, with the exception of Section C. 3.1 composition of the Audit Committee, which is explained on page 51.
In June 2008, UBMs shareholders approved a scheme of arrangement the Scheme which replaced the existing parent company United Business Media plc UBM plc with a Jersey-incorporated company United Business Media Limited UBML.
As a company with its shares listed on the London Stock Exchange, UBML is subject to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and voluntarily complies with the provisions of the Code and relevant institutional shareholder guidelines as described in this statement.
Although UBML is not subject to UK companies legislation, the Board considers it appropriate to provide shareholder safeguards which are similar to those that would have applied to UBM plc and are consistent with the relevant provisions of the UK Companies Acts.
The Board members of UBM plc immediately prior to the Scheme becoming effective and those of UBML immediately afterwards are the same.
References in this statement to the Board are deemed to be references to the boards of UBM plc and or UBML as appropriate.
The Board The Board has overall responsibility to shareholders for the management of the Group.
The primary function of the Board is to set the Groups strategy and to oversee the effective implementation of that strategy.
A formal schedule of matters to be considered by the Board is in place and is reviewed annually.
Other responsibilities reserved to the Board include: Approval of the annual budget including capital expenditure and Treasury policy: Approval of the interim and annual financial statements: Succession planning: Dividend policy: Major acquisitions and disposals and substantial property transactions: and The Groups system of internal controls.
Decisions on operational matters are delegated to the executive directors and to divisional boards under formally documented authorities.
There is an established agenda of items to be considered at Board meetings, which provides regular updates on the Groups finances, operations, strategy and development.
Presentations are made by executive directors and by divisional management and other senior executives on specific issues.
The Board receives monthly management accounts and other financial information.
The Board has six scheduled meetings per annum and meetings may be convened at other times as and when necessary: as a result of the high level of corporate activity in 2008, 11 Board meetings were held during the year.
Four meetings were held in Dublin, four at UBM events and facilities worldwide in the USA, France and Hong Kong, and three meetings of UBM plc were held in the UK prior to the Scheme becoming effective.
Given the large number of unscheduled meetings, it was not possible for all directors to be present on all occasions.
Details of individual attendance by directors at Board and committee meetings in 2008 are set out below.
Remuneration Nomination Director Board Audit Committee Committee Committee attendance is shown only for committee members John Botts 10 3 1 David Levin 10 Nigel Wilson 11 Alan Gillespie 10 of 10 1 of 1 1 Christopher Hyman 1 of 3 1 of 1 Pradeep Kar 11 4 Sandy Leitch 2 of 3 3 of 3 Jonathan Newcomb 11 3 2 of 4 1 Karen Thomson 72 Adair Turner 3 of 3 1 of 1 2 of 3 Non-executive directors are encouraged to visit the Groups businesses around the world and to meet informally with senior executives.
Their wide experience in a range of industries and geographies also enables them to provide advice and assistance to senior management on specific projects.
During 2008 non-executive directors visited CMP Asias largest trade show, the Hong Kong Jewellery and Watch Show, and UBM Lives IFSEC, a leading fire and security exhibition in Birmingham, as well as visiting the offices of CMPMedicas Paris-based healthcare business and PRNs new editorial offices in Cleveland, Ohio.
48 Corporate governance statement continued Board committees The Board is assisted in fulfilling its responsibilities by three principal committees, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Details of the activities of the Audit Committee are set out in a separate report on page 51 while those of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 46.
The terms of reference for all committees may be viewed on the Companys website and copies can be obtained from the Company Secretary, who acts as secretary to all three committees.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by John Botts and its other members are Jonathan Newcomb and Alan Gillespie.
Sandy Leitch was a member of the committee until May 2008.
The Company Secretary and Chief Executive customarily attend the committees meetings.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to ensure an appropriate balance of experience and abilities on the Board, by reviewing the size and composition of the Board and recommending any proposed changes.
The committee met formally once during 2008.
During the year, committee members were engaged in selecting and briefing external search consultants who were retained to assist in recruiting additional non-executive directors, and in considering and interviewing candidates.
One new non-executive director, Alan Gillespie, was appointed during 2008.
The process to recruit additional non-executive directors continues during 2009.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Board balance and independence At the date of this statement there are seven Board members, comprising the Chairman part-time, two executive and four non-executive directors.
Three other non-executive directors, Sandy Leitch, Adair Turner and Christopher Hyman, also served during the year and retired from the Board at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Sandy Leitch was the senior independent non-executive director, and he has been succeeded in that role by Alan Gillespie.
The Board believes that a strong presence of non-executive directors is a key aspect of effective corporate governance.
The Board assesses and periodically reviews the independence of its non-executive directors: in doing so it has regard to the personal qualities demonstrated by each director, particularly the nature and effectiveness of their contribution to debate at Board and committee meetings.
The Board considers all its non-executive directors who served during 2008 to be independent.
Non-executive directors appointments are reviewed every three years.
Biographies of all the directors currently in office are set out on pages 38 and 39 and illustrate their range of experience.
During 2008 the Board established a process to address possible conflicts of interest of directors.
Any relevant conflicts and potential conflicts that arise will be required to be disclosed at the next Board meeting for consideration and, if appropriate, approval by relevant Board members.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, at each Annual General Meeting any director then in office who has been appointed by the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting and any director who at the date of the notice convening the meeting had held office for more than 30 months since he was last appointed or re-appointed by the Company in general meeting shall retire from office but is eligible for re-appointment.
All directors in office at 3 March 2009 have been elected or re-elected by shareholders within the last two years.
The continued appointment of all directors to the Board of UBML was confirmed by UBMLs shareholders at the time that company was established and accordingly none of the directors will retire at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
In future, directors will continue to retire and stand for re-election at successive Annual General Meetings pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association, in accordance with the established timetable for retirement by rotation.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, and a summary of their respective responsibilities is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for overseeing the operation of the Board but takes no part in the day to day running of the business.
John Botts is also a managing director of Allen & Company in London.
His other directorships include Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.
49 Board evaluation Following the formal review of Board and committee performance and effectiveness in 2007 which was conducted by external consultants, it was decided to revert to an internal process for the 2008 review.
This was carried out by means of confidential questionnaires which were completed by all Board directors and the results collated by the Company Secretary.
A separate questionnaire was completed in respect of the Chairmans performance and the results collated by the Senior Independent Director.
Areas covered by the review included the roles and processes of the Board and its main committees: Board and committee dynamics and culture: succession planning: corporate governance: and risk management and control.
The review concluded that the Board and its committees continue to operate effectively.
Evaluation of the performance of individual non-executive directors is carried out by the Chairman with input from the Senior Independent Director and Chief Executive: the Chief Executives performance is evaluated by the Chairman and the Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers performance is evaluated by the Chief Executive.
The non-executive directors met without executives present to discuss Board processes and management succession.
Information and professional development A procedure exists whereby directors may seek independent professional advice if they consider it appropriate to do so in the furtherance of their duties.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who has primary responsibility for keeping directors updated and informed of general developments which may be of relevance to their responsibilities.
The Company Secretary is not a Board director.
All directors are offered the opportunity to further their professional development by means of attendance at seminars and briefings.
An induction process is in place for all directors on appointment: this includes discussions with the Chairman and executive directors as well as one to one briefings and presentations from other directors and senior management on matters relating to the Groups businesses and procedures.
As a result of feedback received during the Board review, the induction process will be reviewed in 2009 in order to ensure that it continues to provide new directors with the information necessary to facilitate their full participation in Board discussions.
Relations with shareholders The Companys shareholders are kept informed about the activities and progress of the Group primarily by means of the annual and interim report and interim management statements, and by the publication of updated trading information prior to the start of each close period and at the Annual General Meeting.
Financial and other information about the Company is published on its website, which has links to the websites of other businesses in the Group.
The Company also maintains an ongoing dialogue with its major institutional shareholders by means of a scheduled programme of meetings, which are generally undertaken by the Chief Executive and Deputy CEO and Chief Financial Officer, and may be attended if appropriate by the Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the views of shareholders are communicated to other directors.
Feedback from investor meetings is provided to all directors, as are analysts and brokers reports.
The Senior Independent Director is available for consultation by shareholders in the event that they have concerns which are inappropriate to raise with the Chairman.
No such concerns were raised during 2008.
Consultation is undertaken with investors and with bodies representing shareholders interests on matters which the Company considers appropriate.
During 2008 the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consulted with a number of the Companys largest institutional investors, and with the ABI and RREV, regarding issues relating to executive remuneration.
All shareholders are welcome at the Annual General Meeting where they are able to ask questions of all the directors, including the Chairman, as well as the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The 2008 Annual General Meeting was held in Birmingham and shareholders were invited to take the opportunity to learn at first hand about one of the Groups businesses by visiting IFSEC, a leading fire and security exhibition which is organised by UBM Live and held at the NEC.
Voting at the Annual General Meeting takes place by poll and the results are notified via a regulatory information service and displayed on the Companys website as soon as practicable following the meeting.
50 Corporate governance statement continued Internal control The Board is responsible for maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of such systems.
The system is intended to enable the Group to identify and manage the risks inherent in its business and accordingly can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
A formal process is in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the key financial, operating and compliance risks faced by the Group.
This risk mapping process, which was in place throughout 2008 and continues in force, accords with the Turnbull guidance issued in September 1999 and is reviewed annually by the Board.
The process aims to identify and evaluate risks which are specific to each of the Groups businesses.
Following the changes introduced during 2008 whereby three of the Groups divisions were restructured into eleven smaller businesses, each business has prepared its own analysis of the major commercial and financial risks which it faces and of the controls in place to mitigate those risks.
The risk maps and associated action plans are compiled by the respective management teams, reviewed centrally by UBM executive management, and considered by the Audit Committee, which in turn reports to the Board.
The Groups system of internal controls includes the following: All staff are required to comply with a formal system of delegated authorities which is in place for all divisions and head office.
Further guidance on Group policies and procedures is set out in various manuals including the financial policies and procedures manual, Group policy manual and employee handbooks.
An anti-malpractice policy is in place throughout the Group which provides a mechanism for confidential reporting by staff of possible concerns about financial or other matters.
The Group has a comprehensive financial reporting system, with the annual budget being approved by the Board and monthly trading results, balance sheets and cashflow summaries recorded against corresponding figures for the budget and the previous year.
The Chief Executive and Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for certifying the Companys annual financial statements, which process is supported by certification for the individual businesses from divisional CEOs and finance directors.
Established procedures are in place for the evaluation of potential acquisitions and their integration into the Group.
Monitoring of post-acquisition performance against detailed business plans is conducted on an ongoing basis by the internal audit department and reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
The internal audit department undertakes periodic reviews of individual businesses to assess their control status and makes recommendations to the Audit Committee.
The work of the internal audit department is prioritised to concentrate on the areas of greatest risk as identified through the Group risk management process.
The Head of Internal Audit attends meetings of the Audit Committee, which oversees the role and structure of the internal audit department and makes recommendations to management.
51 Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Jonathan Newcomb and its other members are John Botts and Karen Thomson.
As Chairman of the Board, John Botts is not considered to be independent under the Code but, in view of his financial skills and experience it is considered appropriate that he should remain a member of the Committee.
A review of Board and Committee membership will be carried out during 2009 following the recruitment of additional non-executive directors.
Other individuals who served on the Audit Committee during 2008 are Adair Turner, who chaired the committee until he retired from the Board at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, and Christopher Hyman.
Members of the Committee have broad financial experience which has been gained in a variety of disciplines, and which the Board considers appropriate to enable the Committee to carry out its responsibilities.
The Committee met on three occasions during 2008 and details of individual attendance are set out in the table on page 47.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee provides a verbal report to the Board following each Committee meeting and the minutes of Committee meetings are made available to other Board members.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee and others invited to attend Committee meetings include the Deputy CEO and Chief Financial Officer, deputy CFO, Head of Internal Audit, Head of Taxation, Treasurer and external auditors.
The Committee also meets at least once a year with external auditors without management present.
The Committee operates within written terms of reference, which are reviewed periodically.
These terms of reference may be viewed on the Companys website.
To assist in ensuring auditor objectivity and independence, the Audit Committee has established a formal procedure regarding the undertaking of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Appointment of the external auditor for non-audit services may only be made with the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
Approval for projects with anticipated fees not exceeding specified limits is delegated to the Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer or deputy CFO and is reported to the Committee.
The Audit Committee has a structured schedule of matters for consideration which is aligned with the Groups financial calendar.
During 2008 the committees work included the following: Reviewed the preliminary results announcement and considered reports from the external auditors identifying any significant issues of accounting policy or matters of judgmental difference requiring its attention: Reviewed the Operating and Financial Review section of the 2007 annual report with specific reference to the description of key performance indicators and principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group: Reviewed the interim results announcement and considered reports from the external auditors identifying any significant financial reporting issues or matters of judgmental difference requiring its attention: Reviewed the Groups risk mapping process and considered specific areas of risk identified through that process and the action plans proposed: Considered and approved audit plans from internal and external auditors: Reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process: Reviewed the composition of the committee and its own performance: Received reports from the internal audit department on the outcome of reviews conducted by it: Considered post-acquisition reviews conducted in respect of businesses acquired by the Group: Reviewed the performance of a number of major projects being implemented within the Groups divisions.
In accordance with the Companys policy, the Audit Committee reviewed its external audit arrangements during 2008 and conducted a tender process, as a result of which Ernst & Young LLP were retained as external auditors.
A resolution for their re-appointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in May 2009.
