Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings As at 27 February 2009, the Company has been notified that the following hold, either directly or indirectly, 3 per cent or more of the Companys voting rights: Percentage of ordinary Number of 5p Nature of holding share capital ordinary shares Schroders plc Indirect 6.6 4,501,053 F&C Asset Management Indirect 5.8 3,971,335 Legal & General Group plc Direct and indirect 5.2 3,539,587 Prudential plc Group of Companies Direct 5.2 3,538,294 Standard Life Investments Ltd Direct and indirect 4.9 3,354,657 Aegon UK Plc Group of Companies Direct and indirect 4.4 2,964,838 As at 27 February 2009, under DTR5, the Company had received notification that Baillie Gifford & Co holds less than 5 per cent of the Companys voting rights.
Charitable and political contributions The Group contributed 66,000 2007: 62,000 to charities and made no contributions for political purposes in either year.
Supplier payment policy Individual operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which they conduct business transactions with their suppliers.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
Trade payable days of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008 were 61 days 2007: 53 days, based on the ratio of Group trade payables at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by suppliers.
The Company had no trade payables at either year end.
Capital structure Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 26.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions either on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
Details of employee share schemes are also set out in note 26.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Main Board Terms of Reference, copies of which are available on request, and the Corporate Governance Statement on page 34.
Annual General Meeting Explanation of special business resolutions is given below: Resolution 10 This resolution authorises the Directors to allot shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,135,540 representing approximately one third of the allotted and fully paid up share capital of the Company as at 27 February 2009, being the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of AGM.
In addition, in accordance with guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers, this resolution authorises the Directors to allot further shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,135,540, representing approximately one third of the allotted and fully paid up share capital of the Company as at 27 February 2009, being the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of AGM.
This additional authority may be only applied to fully pre-emptive rights issues.
As at 27 February 2009, being the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of AGM, there are no treasury shares in issue in the Company.
This authority expires on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Directors do not have any present intention of exercising the authorities conferred by this resolution but they consider it desirable that the specified amount of authorised but unissued share capital is available for issue so that they can more readily take advantage of possible opportunities.
32 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Directors report continued Resolution 11 This resolution authorises the Directors to allot shares for cash, without first having offered to allot such shares to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings, in respect of approximately 5% of the total issued share capital of the company.
The resolution complies with the latest issued guidelines of the Association of British Insurers, and is similar to authorities given previously.
TREASURY SHARES REGULATIONS The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as amended Treasury Shares Regulations give flexibility concerning what the Company can do with any of its ordinary shares that it may buy back.
The Company may now hold such shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for cash rather than simply cancelling them.
The Treasury Shares Regulations require such sales to be on a pre-emptive, pro-rata basis to existing shareholders unless shareholders agree by special resolution to disapply such pre-emption rights.
Accordingly, in addition to giving the Directors power to allot unissued ordinary shares on a non pre-emptive basis, this resolution also gives Directors power to sell ordinary shares held in treasury on a non pre-emptive basis, subject always to the limitations noted above.
The Directors consider that the power proposed to be granted by this resolution is necessary to retain flexibility, although they do not have any intention at the present time of exercising such power.
Resolution 12 This resolution authorises the Directors to purchase up to a total of 3,406,621 of the Companys shares, representing approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 27 February 2009, being the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of AGM.
Shares so purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
This authority expires on the earlier of 12 months from the date of passing this resolution or the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The Directors will use the share purchase authority with discretion.
In reaching a decision to purchase shares of the Company, the Directors would take account of the Companys business and any impact on earnings per share and net tangible assets per share.
The decision as to whether any such shares bought back will be cancelled or held in treasury will be made by the Directors on the same basis at the time of the purchase.
The Directors have no current intention to exercise the authority sought by this resolution, except for employee share option schemes.
The minimum price that can be paid for an ordinary share is 5p being the nominal value of an ordinary share.
The maximum price that can be paid is 5% over the average of the middle market prices for an ordinary share, derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, for the five business days immediately before the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased.
As at 27 February 2009, being the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of AGM, there were outstanding options under the Companys discretionary share incentive plans and employee share savings schemes in respect of 1,216,799 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, representing approximately 1.79% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares were exercised in full, such options would represent 1.88% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
Resolution 13 This resolution is required to reflect the proposed implementation in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The regulation implementing this Directive will increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so after August 2009, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
This resolution seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Auditors Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: 1 So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and 2 The Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of S234ZA of The Companies Act 1985.
By order of the Board, D. Jeffcoat Company Secretary 27 February 2009 Registered Office: 417 Bridport Road, Greenford, Middlesex UB6 8UA Registered Number: 2830397 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 33 Corporate governance Corporate governance Combined code compliance This section describes how the Group has applied the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published in June 2006 the Code.
During the year ended 31 December 2008 the Group complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Code with some exceptions, details of which are given in the following sections.
Main Board The Board deals with the important aspects of the Groups affairs including setting and monitoring strategy, reviewing performance, ensuring that the Group has adequate financial resources and reporting to shareholders.
The Board has established Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, to which certain key responsibilities are delegated.
These responsibilities, which are in line with the recommendations of the Code, are set out below.
Ultras Board structure and composition was revised during 2008 following the resignation of Frank Hope, an executive Director.
It now comprises the Chairman, three independent non-executive Directors and three executive Directors and is therefore compliant with the recommendations of the Code.
The Chairman, Dr Julian Blogh, is also non-executive Chairman of Gooch and Housego plc.
As senior independent non-executive Director, Andrew Walker has particular responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for safeguarding the provisions of the Code on corporate governance, and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Company Secretary has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Mr Walker has announced his decision to retire at the April 2009 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Following this, Christopher Bailey will become senior independent non-executive Director.
Ian Griffiths will continue in his role as an independent non-executive Director.
Sir Robert Walmsley joined the Board in January 2009 to replace Mr Walker as an independent non-executive Director.
Sir Robert had a long career in the UK Royal Navy and, following his retirement from the Navy, he was Chief of Defence Procurement for the UK Ministry of Defence.
He is Chairman of the Board of the Major Projects Association, a non-executive Director of Cohort plc and of the General Dynamics Corporation.
He is also a senior advisor at Morgan Stanley International plc.
Sir Robert will be standing for formal election to the Board at the AGM.
David Jeffcoat, who was appointed to the Board in 2000, is both Finance Director and Company Secretary.
He reports to the Chief Executive in his role of Finance Director and to the Chairman in his capacity of Company Secretary.
Mr Jeffcoat has announced his intention to retire at the AGM after which the roles of Finance Director and Company Secretary will be separated, in line with best governance practice.
The Board is proposing that Mr Jeffcoats replacement as Finance Director be Paul Dean.
Mr Dean is a qualified accountant who has had a long and successful career in financial management with major British companies including Burmah Castrol plc and Foseco plc.
He is standing for election to the Board at the AGM.
David Garbett-Edwards, a qualified accountant who has been a senior financial manager within Ultra for many years, will be appointed as Company Secretary following the AGM.
The main Board met ten times during the year.
Details of the individual Directors attendance at these meetings and those of the Board sub-committees are set out in the table below.
Meeting attendance Main Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 10 42 3 C. Bailey 10 42 3 J. Blogh 10 -2 - D. Caster 10 -2 - I. Griffiths 10 42 3 A. Hamment 10 -- - 2 F. Hope 5- - - 1 D. Jeffcoat 10 41 3 A. Walker 10 42 3 1 Mr Jeffcoat is secretary to the Board and all three sub-committees.
He attends all Committee meetings in that capacity.
Details of those matters reserved for the Board can be found in the investors section of the Group website at www.
Key decisions that are delegated to the Chief Executive include the approval of budgeted capital investments below 500,000 in value, the terms of major contract bids below 100m, the appointment and dismissal of business unit Managing Directors and Presidents, together with their remuneration levels, and the granting of charitable donations.
Decisions on charitable donations are made with the advice of an internal charities committee.
34 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Conflicts of interest In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Group introduced changes to its Articles of Association that were approved by shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
The Board has been briefed on the implications of these changes and each Director is aware of his responsibility to bring any situational or transactional conflicts to the attention of the Board.
In order to recognise pre-existing conflicts at the time that the new legislation became active, each Director completed a conflicts questionnaire.
Situational conflicts that were identified were brought to the attention of the Board for its consideration and, where appropriate, were duly authorised.
The same process applies to new Directors, who are required to complete a conflicts questionnaire in order that any identified conflicts can be considered by the Board.
A review of conflicts will be carried out annually to ensure that they have all been brought to the attention of the Board.
Audit Committee The Board has overall responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control procedures that are in place throughout Ultras operations.
The Board is supported in this capacity by the Audit Committee, which monitors the internal financial control procedures that are operated by the Group.
During 2008 the Audit Committee consisted of Andrew Walker, Committee Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director, Ian Griffiths and Christopher Bailey.
Christopher Bailey has recent and relevant experience in a senior financial executive role.
He was Group Finance Director of Aggregate Industries plc until 2004.
Mr Walker has been a member of the Audit Committee for more than ten years and has served on the Audit Committees of several other quoted companies of which he has been a director.
Christopher Bailey will succeed Andrew Walker as Chairman of the Committee when Mr Walker leaves the Board after the AGM.
The Committee met four times during the year.
The main topics considered during the meetings were: a agreeing the strategy and scope of the internal and external audits: b reviewing the outcome of the audits and agreeing upon the necessary actions: c monitoring Ultras financial results and the formal external announcements relating to them: d ensuring that the internal and external audit functions, which are carried out by professional accounting firms on behalf of the Group, remain both independent and effective: e assessing the risk that Ultras financial statements are materially misstated as a result of fraud: f endorsing the Groups public interest disclosure policy, which provides an independent point of contact for all employees, and the arrangements for its application: and g considering the recommendation to the shareholders of a preferred firm of external auditors.
The Committee has recently reviewed the public interest disclosure policy and has recommended a further strengthening of the process through the engagement of an independent party to provide a point of contact for employees, and to refer employee concerns directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
This appointment will be made shortly.
It is the policy of the Group that non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP, Ultras external auditors, are restricted to regulatory reporting, consultancy services associated with financial restructuring and responding to new reporting requirements, due diligence assessments of potential acquisitions and other attestation work.
In connection with due diligence work and consultancy, the Board believes that the auditors familiarity with Ultras accounting practices and the techniques that are involved in Ultras long-term contracting activities serves them well in carrying out such work.
The audit partner employed by Deloitte LLP on the Ultra audit is subject to a strict policy of regular rotation such that there is a change in this role at least once every five years.
This is in accordance with professional practice guidelines.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
The key responsibility of the Committee is to review all main Board and sub-committee appointments.
During 2008 the Committee, which is chaired by Julian Blogh, met twice.
Following the announcements of the planned retirements of Andrew Walker and David Jeffcoat, the Committee met to agree the process to identify their replacements.
After considering alternative candidates, the Committee recommended that Sir Robert Walmsley be appointed as a non-executive Director and as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The Committee also recommended that the roles of Finance Director and Company Secretary, currently undertaken by David Jeffcoat, should be split.
Following an external search process carried out by external consultants, the Committee is recommending the appointment at the AGM of Paul Dean as Finance Director.
It has also been determined that David Garbett-Edwards should be appointed as Company Secretary at the same time.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 35 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Andrew Walker, Christopher Bailey and Ian Griffiths.
During 2008, the committee, which is chaired by Andrew Walker, met three times.
Sir Robert Walmsley joined the Committee with effect from February 2009.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance of the executive Directors, including the Chief Executive, and for setting their levels of remuneration.
It also meets without the Group Chairman being present to agree his remuneration.
The Directors remuneration report is included on page 40, together with details of the Directors pension entitlements, long-term incentive share awards and shareholdings.
It will be presented for approval by the shareholders at the AGM.
Evaluation of Board and Committee effectiveness Following the recommendations of the Code, the Board operates an evaluation process in which the effectiveness of the Board, its sub-committees and each individual Director are assessed over a rolling two-year period.
The Chairman is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for overseeing this process, which is facilitated by an independent external consultant.
He is supported in this regard by the Company Secretary.
In 2007 the contribution of each individual Director was assessed by the rest of the Board.
This involved a questionnaire that was completed independently by each individual Director.
The results of this survey were processed and fed back separately to each individual and in total to the Chairman.
In 2008, the main Board and its subcommittees were reviewed, again using a questionnaire that was completed independently by all members of the Board.
The scope of the review covered the Board structure, processes and administration, together with the distribution of information.
Its results were communicated to the Directors in a written report, considered at a subsequent meeting in a discussion facilitated by the external consultant, and a number of actions were agreed as a result.
This review cycle is repeated every two years.
Directors re-election All Directors are subject to re-election at least once every three years.
Douglas Caster, Chief Executive, and Andrew Hamment, executive Director, are retiring by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and are standing for re-election.
Sir Robert Walmsley, who joined the Board in January 2009, is standing for election for the first time.
Paul Dean will also be standing for election as Finance Director as outlined above.
Succession planning The Group operates a well defined succession planning process which encompasses the executive Directors, other senior executives, business management teams, and other key individuals with special skills, knowledge or experience.
This annual process starts at the business unit level and is addressed first by Managing Directors and Presidents, then by Divisional Managing Directors, and finally by the Chief Executive.
The Group Human Resources Director is involved in each stage of this process.
The Board discusses the succession plans for the executive Directors and Divisional Managing Directors.
Directors induction and training New Directors are provided with a detailed introduction to the Group to facilitate their understanding of the Group structure and the complex nature of the diverse range of products and services provided by the businesses.
Directors are encouraged to visit the Groups businesses regularly, and Board meetings are held at different Ultra sites in order to facilitate this.
Non-executive Directors are encouraged to meet senior managers to gain a different perspective on the key issues being addressed at each business unit.
Directors are provided with training on points of specific relevance to their roles, including an annual corporate governance update, and specialised help on complex areas such as pensions legislation.
Internal controls The Code states that Directors should review the effectiveness of the Groups entire system of internal controls, covering business risks associated with strategic, operational and financial matters, together with those associated with Ultras information technology infrastructure.
Ultras internal controls are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
In this context, such controls can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The key features of the internal control system that operated during the year are described below.
Control environment Ultras organisational structure has clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated authorities, which are reviewed regularly by the Board to ensure that they are still relevant given the Groups current size and structure.
Appropriate ethical values and the need to maintain effective controls are communicated to managers and staff in specially designed development and training programmes.
36 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Control environment continued All businesses are required to maintain written operating procedure manuals that are consistent with the control principles and policies set out in Ultras Group Operating Manual.
Acquisitions, major capital investments and contract bids above a defined value require main Board approval, with smaller investment decisions delegated to the Chief Executive.
Risk management Management is responsible for identifying the risks facing Ultras businesses and for putting procedures in place to recognise and mitigate such risks.
Strategic risks are assessed formally each year by the Board during the strategic planning process and steps are taken subsequently to ensure that such risks are minimised at all times.
Operational risks are monitored as part of the Groups monthly business performance review process.
Business units are required to report on all key areas of risk, highlighting situations where normal controls have failed to be fully effective and explaining what remedial actions have been taken.
Such situations are then monitored regularly until a satisfactory conclusion is reached.
The Chief Executive reports all significant deviations twice a year to the Board.
The Board maintains an internal audit process, carried out by Ernst & Young LLP, to review financial and information systems control procedures throughout the Group.
All significant business units are audited at least once every two years.
In addition, all newly acquired free-standing businesses are audited within a year of their acquisition date.
The leading partner of Ernst & Young reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and presents the findings of his team twice annually to the Audit Committee.
Progress reports on follow-up remedial actions are reported regularly to the Committee.
Ernst & Young confirms whether appropriate action has been taken to address the risks when they next visit the business concerned.
The executive Directors take an active role in identifying and assessing potential risks inherent in all aspects of Ultras activities.
This is achieved both through the normal monthly business review process and also through day-to-day management contact.
The Managing Directors, Presidents and finance heads of all business units are required to give a formal written representation to the Board every year, confirming that they accept responsibility for maintaining effective internal controls and that they have disclosed full details of any fraud or suspected fraud within their businesses, either in their monthly internal compliance statements or separately if appropriate.
In summary, the Board accepts overall responsibility for reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework on a regular basis.
Internal procedures are reviewed and updated where necessary.
The Board has performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report, including the work of Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Financial reporting systems The Group has a comprehensive system of financial reporting covering key performance indicators such as order cover, revenues, profit and cash flow.
The five year strategic plan and annual budget for each business unit are approved by the executive Directors.
The Board approves the Groups consolidated plan and budget.
The actual performance of the Group and the key variances against budget are reported monthly to the Board, normally during the third week of the following month.
Revised forecasts for the half-year and full-year are prepared monthly for each business unit, and for the Group as a whole, and presented to the Board.
Shareholder communication The Group encourages two-way communications with both institutional and private investors and endeavours to respond promptly to queries received.
Ultras website provides detailed financial and business information about the Group.
Meetings between the executive Directors, institutional shareholders, analysts and other market professionals are held regularly as a part of Ultras investor relations programme.
Shareholders are invited to attend Annual General Meetings, to ask questions during the meeting and to meet individual Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
Documentation relevant to Ultras governance framework will be available for inspection before the AGM, including the terms of reference of the Board and its sub-committees and the Directors individual contracts of employment.
The terms of reference can also be found on the Groups website at www.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 37 Corporate governance
