Report of the Directors Report of the Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Unilever Boards in one year, and recommended to the Boards the reappointment of fullling their oversight responsibilities regarding the integrity of the external auditors.
On the recommendation of the Audit Unilevers financial statements, risk management and internal Committee, the Directors will be proposing the reappointment of control, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the  at the AGMs in May 2009 see pages external auditors performance, qualications and independence, 146 and 151. and the performance of the internal audit function.
During the year ended 31 December 2008 the principal activities of the Both Unilever and the auditors have for many years had safeguards Committee were as follows: in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
The Committee reviewed the report from  on the actions Financial statements The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their officer on the quarterly and annual financial statements, including other financial statements and disclosures prior to their independence from Unilever.
publication and issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee.
They also reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, other audit, tax and other services provided by , and Report on Form 20-F prior to publication.
compliance with Unilevers policy, which prescribes in detail the types of engagements for which the external auditors can and Audit of the Annual Accounts cannot be used: , Unilevers external auditors, reported in depth to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual statutory audit services as detailed above, including audit of audit, including their audit of internal control over financial subsidiaries: reporting as required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley other audit services work which regulations or agreements Act of 2002.
Their reports included accounting matters, with third parties require the auditors to undertake e. g. in governance and control, and accounting developments.
connection with borrowings and shareholder services: other services statutory auditors may carry out work that they Risk management and internal control arrangements are best placed to undertake, including internal control reviews: The Committee reviewed Unilever's overall approach to risk acquisition and disposal services where the auditors are best management and control, and its processes, outcomes and placed to do this work: disclosure, including specically: tax services all significant tax consulting work is put to tender, except where the auditors are best placed to do this: and review of level of disclosure in quarterly financial results general consulting external auditors may not tender for announcements: general consulting work.
review of accounting principles and judgements with respect to financial statements, including the annual impairment review All engagements over 100 000 require specic advance approval of goodwill and intangibles: of the Audit Committee Chairman.
The overall policy is regularly review of the analysis supporting the going concern judgement reviewed and, where necessary, updated in the light of internal of the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts: developments, external developments and best practice.
Corporate Audits interim and year-end reports on the Status of Risk Management and Control, and managements response: The Committee held independent meetings with the external annual report from the Chief Financial officer on business risks auditors during the year.
and positive assurance on operating controls and corporate policies: and a quarterly review of business risks and safeguards: Internal audit function the interim and year-end reports from the Code of Business The Committee reviewed the Corporate Audit departments audit Principles Compliance Committee: plan for the year, and agreed its budget and resource monitoring the resolution of complaints received through the requirements.
The Committee carried out a formal evaluation of global Ethics hotline including procedures for handling the performance of the internal audit function which included a complaints and concerns relating to accounting, internal control review of a report by an external assessor and confirmed that they and auditing matters: were satisfied with the effectiveness of the function.
The quarterly review of progress of the application of the Committee held independent meetings with the Chief Auditor requirements under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act during the year.
of 2002 with respect to internal controls over financial reporting: Audit Committee terms of reference review of the application of information and communication The Audit Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually technology: a review of the annual pension report and the impact of by the Committee taking into account relevant legislation and financial volatility on pensions: recommended good practice.
The terms of reference can be annual review of anti-fraud arrangements: viewed on Unilevers website at a review of tax planning policy: www.
com investorrelations corp governance or supplied review of treasury policies, including debt issuance and on request.
hedging: review of the annual financial plan: and Board Assessment of the Audit Committee review of the revised dividend policy The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and the Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance.
External auditors The Audit Committee conducted a formal evaluation of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Committee has Kees Storm Chairman of the Audit Committee approved the extension of the current external audit contract by Wim Dik Charles Golden Byron Grote 74 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008
