Report of the Directors Corporate governance Introduction Unilever policies The implementation of and compliance with our governance Unilever aspires to high standards of corporate governance.
structure is facilitated through a business-orientated policy We keep our corporate governance arrangements under constant framework.
Unilever policies are universally applicable within the review.
NV and PLC are subject to various corporate governance Unilever Group.
They are mandatory and have been developed to requirements and best practice codes, the most relevant being ensure consistency in all material respects amongst worldwide those in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United operations in key areas.
They cover operational and functional States.
It is Unilevers practice to comply, where practicable, with matters, and govern how we run our business, in order to comply the highest level of these codes and respond to developments with applicable laws and regulations.
Our internal risk management and control systems are described on The Unilever Group page 28.
Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC are the two parent companies of the Unilever Group.
Together with their respective group Developments in corporate governance companies, NV and PLC operate effectively as a single economic Patrick Cescau retired from Unilever at the end of 2008 and, entity.
This is achieved by a series of agreements between NV and following his appointment as a Director in October 2008, Paul PLC the Foundation Agreements, see page 51, together with Polman succeeded Patrick Cescau as Chief Executive officer in special provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC.
Paul Polman is the first Chief Executive officer and PLC have the same Directors and adopt the same accounting appointed from outside the Unilever Group.
Shareholders of both companies receive dividends on an equalised basis.
NV and PLC and their group companies The text that follows describes the corporate governance constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting arrangements operating within Unilever and the changes anticipated consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever in 2009.
More information on our corporate governance Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective arrangements is set out in the document entitled The Governance consolidated accounts.
of Unilever, the Boards statement of their internal arrangements, which can be found at NV and PLC have agreed to co-operate in all areas and ensure www.
com investorrelations corp governance that all group companies act accordingly.
NV and PLC are holding and service companies, and the business activity of Unilever is The Boards carried out by their subsidiaries around the world.
Shares in group The Boards of NV and PLC comprise the same Directors and have companies may ultimately be held wholly by either NV or PLC or the same Chairman.
This ensures unity of governance and by the two companies in varying proportions.
management by ensuring that all matters are considered by the Boards as a single intellect, reaching the same conclusions on the NV was incorporated under the name Naamlooze Vennootschap same set of facts, save where specic local factors apply.
Margarine Unie in the Netherlands in 1927.
Its objects and purposes are set out in Article 2 of its Articles of Association.
The Boards are one-tier boards, comprising Executive Directors and, PLC was incorporated under the name Lever Brothers Limited in in a majority, Non-Executive Directors.
The Boards have ultimate England and Wales in 1894.
Its objects and purposes can be responsibility for the management, general affairs, direction and found in Clause 3 of its Memorandum of Association.
performance of our business as a whole.
The responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking into account their respective roles as Unilever PLCs Memorandum of Association and Unilever N. V. s Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Articles of Association contain, among other things, the objects Directors have additional responsibilities for the operation of our clause which sets out the scope of the activities that PLC and NV business as determined by the Boards and the Chief Executive are authorised to undertake.
The Memorandum of Association officer.
and Articles of Association are drafted to give a wide scope and provide that the primary objectives are: to carry on business as a Our Directors have set out a number of areas of responsibility which holding company, to manage any companies in which it has an are reserved to the Boards and other areas for which matters are interest and to operate and carry into effect the Equalisation delegated to the Chief Executive officer and committees whose Agreement see page 51. actions are regularly reported to and monitored by the Boards.
These are described on pages 48 and 49.
Further details of how our The two companies have different shareholder constituencies and Boards effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares of one delegate their authorities are set out in the document entitled The company for shares of the other.
NV is listed in Amsterdam and Governance of Unilever, which can be found at New York.
PLC is listed in London and New York.
com investorrelations corp governance 44 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Appointment of Directors convening of shareholders meetings: Directors are normally appointed by shareholders at the AGMs.
nominations for Board appointments: In order to facilitate the transition from Patrick Cescau to Paul approval of Board remuneration policy: and Polman, Paul was appointed as an Executive Director at separately review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees.
convened shareholder meetings of PLC and NV held on 28 and 29 October 2008 respectively.
All existing Directors, unless they The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Board are retiring, submit themselves for re-election every year and meetings for the year ended 31 December 2008.
If Directors are shareholders can remove any of them by a simple majority vote.
unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity before the For a list of our current Directors and the periods during which meeting to discuss with the Chairman any agenda items or Board they have served as such, please see pages 18 and 19. papers: Name Attendance In order to seek to ensure that NV and PLC have the same Directors, the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain Michael Treschow 8 of 8 Patrick Cescau to 31 December 2008 8 of 8 provisions which are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC Paul Polman from 29 October 2008 2 of 2 shareholders are presented with the same candidates for election James Lawrence from 15 May 2008 3 of 3 as Directors.
This is achieved through a nomination procedure Kees van der Graaf to 15 May 2008 3 of 3 operated by the Boards of NV and PLC through Unilevers Ralph Kugler to 15 May 2008 3 of 3 Genevive Berger to 30 June 2008 3 of 3 Nomination Committee.
Leon Brittan 8 of 8 WimDik 8of8 Based on the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and its Charles Golden 8 of 8 individual members, the Nomination Committee recommends to Byron Grote 8 of 8 the Boards a list of candidates for nomination at the AGMs of Narayana Murthy 7 of 8 Hixonia Nyasulu 8 of 8 both NV and PLC.
In addition, since 2006 shareholders of the David Simon 8 of 8 companies have been able to nominate Directors and to do so Kees Storm 8 of 8 they must put a resolution to both meetings in line with local Jeroen van der Veer 6 of 8 requirements.
In order to ensure that the Boards remain identical, Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of anyone being elected as a Director of NV must also be elected as number eligible to attend.
a Director of PLC and vice versa.
If an individual fails to be elected Executive Director to both companies then he or she will be unable to take their place on the Boards.
Board meetings are normally held either in London or Rotterdam, with one or two off site Board meetings a year.
The Chairman is The provisions in the Articles of Association for appointing assisted by the Group Secretary, who ensures that the Boards are Directors cannot be changed without the permission, in the case supplied with all the information necessary for their deliberations.
of NV, of the holders of the special ordinary shares numbered The Chairman and the Group Secretary involve the Senior 1 - 2400 inclusive and, in the case of PLC, of the holders of Independent Director see page 47 in the arrangements for Board PLC's deferred stock.
The NV special ordinary shares may only be meetings.
transferred to one or more other holders of such shares.
The joint holders of both the NV special ordinary shares and the Board induction and training PLC deferred stock are N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited, Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors which are joint subsidiaries of NV and PLC.
The boards of N. V. Manual and are briefed thoroughly on their responsibilities and Elma and United Holdings Limited comprise the members of the our business.
Updates on corporate governance developments Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee comprises and investor relations matters are frequent agenda items at Board Non-Executive Directors of Unilever only.
Ongoing training is provided for Directors by way of site visits, presentations, circulated updates, teach-ins at Board or Board meetings Board committee meetings on, among other things, Unilevers Our Boards meet at least seven times a year to consider important business, environmental, social and corporate governance, corporate events and actions, such as: regulatory developments and investor relations matters.
In 2008, Board meetings were held at the ofces of Hindustan Unilever in approval of corporate strategy: Mumbai which included a visit to local retail outlets and the approval of the corporate Annual Plan: Bangalore Research and Development Centre and in Unilevers oversight of the performance of the business: operations in New York which included trade visits and a visit to review of risks and controls: the New Jersey Customer Insight and Innovation Centre.
authorisation of major transactions: preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts: Board evaluation declaration of dividends: The evaluation process of our Boards consists of an internal threeagreement of quarterly results announcements: year cycle with an independent third-party evaluation carried out if the Boards consider appropriate.
The last time an independent third-party evaluation was carried out was in 2006.
In 2007 and Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued 2008 the Chairman, in conjunction with the Senior Independent Chairman and Chief Executive officer Director, conducted the internal evaluation process.
An extensive Unilever has a separate independent Non-Executive Chairman and questionnaire for all Board members formed part of the Chief Executive officer.
There is a clear division of responsibilities evaluation process.
In addition, the Chairman conducted a between their roles.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for process of evaluating the performance of each individual Board leadership of the Boards, ensuring their effectiveness and setting member, including an interview with each.
The evaluation of the their agendas.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the Boards performance of the Chairman was led by the Senior Independent receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Chief Executive officer has been entrusted, within the Committees of the Boards evaluate themselves under supervision parameters set out in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC of their respective chairmen taking into account the views of and in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever, with respective committee members and the Boards.
all the Boards powers, authorities and discretions in relation to the operational management of Unilever.
The Chief Executive The results of the various evaluations were discussed by the officer has the authority to determine which duties regarding the Boards and changes were made in respect of Board practices and operational management of the companies and their business processes where considered necessary.
enterprises will be carried out under his responsibility by one or more Executive Directors or by one or more other persons.
This Board support provides a basis for the Unilever Executive team UEx that is The Group Secretary is available to advise all Directors and ensure chaired by and reports to the Chief Executive officer.
For UEx that Board procedures are complied with.
The Boards have the members biographies see page 58.
For our business structure, power to appoint and remove the Group Secretary.
please refer to About Unilever on pages 21 and 22.
A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, to Executive Directors seek independent professional advice at Unilevers expense.
All Executive Directors are members of the UEx.
Board changes The Executive Directors are full-time employees of Unilever.
The current Directors, with their biographies, are shown on Information about their remuneration can be found in the report pages 18 and 19. of the Remuneration Committee on pages 60 to 73 and on our website at www.
com investorrelations corp governance Genevive Berger, Leon Brittan, Wim Dik, Charles Golden, Byron Grote, Narayana Murthy, Hixonia Nyasulu, David Simon, Kees The Remuneration Committee takes the view that the entitlement Storm, Michael Treschow and Jeroen van der Veer were re-elected of the Executive Directors to the security of twelve months notice as Non-Executive Directors of NV and PLC at the 2008 AGMs.
of termination of employment is in line with both the practice of many comparable companies and the entitlement of other senior On 1 July 2008 Genevive Berger stepped down from the Boards executives within Unilever.
It is our policy to set the level of as a Non-Executive Director to join the Unilever Executive team as severance payments for Executive Directors at no more than one Chief Research and Development officer.
Paul Polman became an years salary, unless the Boards, at the proposal of the Executive Director on 29 October 2008 and, following an orderly Remuneration Committee, nd this unreasonable given the transition, took over from Patrick Cescau on 1 January 2009 as circumstances or unless dictated by applicable law.
The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at the At the 2008 AGMs, Kees van der Graaf and Ralph Kugler stepped AGMs each year.
The Nomination Committee carefully considers down from the Boards, and Jim Lawrence was appointed an each nomination for reappointment.
Executive Director to those Boards following his appointment as Chief Financial officer in September 2007.
Executive Directors stop holding executive ofce on ceasing to be Directors.
Executive Directors retire between the ages of 60 and At the 2009 AGMs all current Executive and Non-Executive 65, as decided by either them or Unilever.
Directors will be nominated for re-election, except David Simon who will be retiring as a Non-Executive Director at the end of our We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans or 2009 AGMs after three terms of three years.
During that time he guarantees.
has served as our Vice Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of our Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
There are no family relationships between any of our Executive It is intended that David will be succeeded in those roles by Directors, other key management personnel or Non-Executive Jeroen van der Veer, with effect from the conclusion of the 2009 Directors.
None of our Executive Directors or other key AGMs.
management personnel are elected or appointed under any arrangement or understanding, either with any major shareholder, customer, supplier or otherwise.
46 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Outside Appointments Senior Independent Director Unilever recognises the benefit to the individual and to the Group Our Non-Executive Directors have appointed David Simon as of involvement by Unilever Executives acting as directors of other Senior Independent Director.
He acts as their spokesman.
The companies outside the Unilever Group, broadening their Senior Independent Director is consulted by the Chairman on experience and knowledge.
The number of outside directorships the agenda and arrangements for Board meetings.
He is also, of listed companies is generally limited to one per individual.
In in appropriate cases, a point of contact for shareholders and the case of publicly listed companies approval is required from the other stakeholders.
Upon Davids retirement, it is intended that he Chairman.
Outside directorships must not involve an excessive will be succeeded by Jeroen van der Veer, with effect from the commitment or conict of interest.
Unilever Executives must at all conclusion of the 2009 AGMs.
times ensure that their time commitment to Unilever takes precedence over any outside directorship.
Fees paid in connection Tenure with an outside directorship may be retained by the individual, Our Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election reecting that any outside directorship is for the responsibility of each year at the AGMs.
Their nomination for re-election is subject the individual and that Unilever takes no responsibility in this to continued good performance which is evaluated by the Boards, regard.
based on the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee carefully considers each nomination Non-Executive Directors for reappointment.
The Non-Executive Directors normally serve for The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility for the execution a maximum of nine years.
of the Boards duties, taking into account their specic responsibilities, which are essentially supervisory.
In particular, Remuneration they comprise the principal external presence in the governance The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by of Unilever, and provide a strong independent element.
See the Boards, within the overall limit set by the shareholders at the pages 18 and 19 for their biographies.
AGMs in 2007, and it is reported on page 72.
We do not grant our Non-Executive Directors any personal loans or guarantees nor Role and Responsibility are they entitled to any severance payments.
Details of the The key elements of the role and responsibilities of our Nonengagement of our Non-Executive Directors can be seen on the Executive Directors are: Unilever website at www.
com investorrelations corp governance supervision of and advice to the Chief Executive officer: developing strategy with the Chief Executive officer: Other appointments scrutiny of performance of the business and Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors may serve on boards of other companies, officer: provided such service does not involve a conict of interest or oversight of risks and controls: restrict their ability to discharge their duties to Unilever.
reporting of performance: remuneration of and succession planning for Executive Independence Directors: and Taking into account the role of Non-Executive Directors, which is governance and compliance.
essentially supervisory, and the fact that they make up the key Committees of the Boards, it is important that our Non-Executive Our Non-Executive Directors are chosen for their broad and Directors can be considered to be independent.
relevant experience and international outlook, as well as their independence.
They form the Audit Committee, the Nomination Our denition of independence for Directors is set out in the Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate document entitled The Governance of Unilever.
It is derived from Responsibility and Reputation Committee.
The roles and the applicable denitions in use in the Netherlands, the UK and membership of these key Board committees are described the US.
All our current Non-Executive Directors are considered to on pages 48 and 49.
The prole set by the Boards for the be independent of Unilever.
Our Boards reached this conclusion Non-Executive Directors and the schedule used for orderly after conducting a thorough review of all relevant relationships of succession planning can be found on our website at the Non-Executive Directors, and their related or connected www.
com investorrelations corp governance persons.
Leon Brittan has served on the Boards since 2000.
The length of tenure under the Dutch Corporate Governance Code is Meetings set at a maximum of twelve years for non-executive directors.
The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the Executive Directors present, under the leadership of the However, the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance Chairman.
In addition, the Nonsuggests that length of tenure is a factor to consider when Executive Directors including the Chairman usually meet before determining independence of a non-executive director.
The UK each Board meeting with the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Combined Code also provides that a non-executive director who Financial officer, other senior executives and the Group Secretary.
serves more than nine years should be subject to annual reelection and subject to particularly rigorous review.
It is our standard practice for all Directors to seek re-election annually.
Moreover, our annual performance review has concluded that Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Leon Brittan continues to demonstrate the essential characteristics The Audit Committee assists the Boards in fullling their oversight of independence expected by the Boards.
His length of service, responsibilities in respect of the integrity of Unilevers financial and his resulting experience and knowledge of Unilever, is viewed statements: risk management and internal control arrangements: by the Boards as being especially valuable, particularly given the compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: the extent of the changes to the Boards in recent years.
performance, qualications and independence of the external auditors: and the performance of the internal audit function.
The A number of relationships, such as non-executive directorships, Audit Committee is directly responsible, subject to local laws exist between various of our Non-Executive Directors and regarding shareholder approval, for the nomination, companies that provide banking, insurance or financial advisory compensation and oversight of the external auditors.
Our Boards considered in each case the number of other companies that also provide or could readily The Audit Committee is compliant with the rules regarding audit provide such services to Unilever, the signicance to those committees applicable in the Netherlands, the UK and the US.
The companies of the services they provide to Unilever, the roles Audit Committee is supplied with all information necessary for of the Non-Executive Directors within those companies and the performance of its duties by the Chief Auditor, Chief Financial the signicance of those roles to our Non-Executive Directors.
Both the Chief Auditor and the external auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee It concluded that none of these relationships impact the separately from management.
independence of the Non-Executive Directors concerned.
The Boards have formed the view that the fact that David Simon is a The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Audit senior adviser of Morgan Stanley International is not material.
The Committee meetings for the year ended 31 December 2008: Boards have satisfied themselves that the services provided by Name Attendance Paton Tupper Associates Pty Limited and Barloworld Limited, of which Hixonia Nyasulu is a director and shareholder and director Kees Storm Chairman 6 of 6 WimDik 6of6 respectively, to Unilever South Africa is not material.
The Boards Charles Golden 6 of 6 further concluded that Narayana Murthys directorship of HSBC Byron Grote 6 of 6 Holdings plc, one of Unilevers preferred banks, is not impacted by Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of the banking relationship and therefore that he should be number eligible to attend.
The Boards have also satisfied themselves that Leon Brittans position at UBS Investment Bank See page 74 for the Report of the Audit Committee to the and UBS Securities Company Limited does not involve him in any shareholders.
way in its broking relationship with Unilever.
Nomination Committee None of our Non-Executive Directors are elected or appointed The Nomination Committee recommends to the Boards under any arrangement or understanding, either with any major candidates for the positions of Director.
It also has responsibilities shareholder, customer, supplier or otherwise.
for succession planning and oversight of corporate governance matters.
It is supplied with information by the Group Secretary.
Committees The document entitled The Governance of Unilever sets out that Board Committees the Nomination Committee comprises two independent NonThe Boards have established the committees described below, all Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Nomination formally set up by Board resolutions with carefully dened remits.
Committee is chaired by David Simon and its other members are They are made up solely of Non-Executive Directors and report Michael Treschow and Jeroen van der Veer.
Following Davids regularly to the Boards.
For all committees, if Directors are unable retirement at the end of the 2009 AGMs, it is intended that to attend a meeting, they are given the opportunity before the Jeroen van der Veer will succeed him as Chairman of the meeting to discuss with the Chairman of the committee any Nomination Committee.
agenda items or committee papers.
All committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
The terms of The following table shows the attendance of Directors at reference for each committee can be found on our website at Nomination Committee meetings for the year ended www.
com investorrelations corp governance 31 December 2008: Audit Committee Name Attendance The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent NonDavid Simon Chairman 6 of 6 Executive Directors with a minimum requirement of three such Michael Treschow from 6 February 2008 5 of 5 members.
It is chaired by Kees Storm, and its other members are Jeroen van der Veer 4 of 6 Wim Dik, Charles Golden and Byron Grote.
The Boards have Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of satisfied themselves that all the current members of the Audit number eligible to attend.
Committee are competent in financial matters and have recent and relevant experience and that, for the purposes of the US See page 59 for the Report of the Nomination Committee Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Kees Storm is the Audit Committees to the shareholders.
The Audit Committees meetings are attended, by invitation, by the Chief Financial officer, the Chief Legal officer, the Group Controller, the Chief Auditor and our external auditors.
48 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee Routine business committees The Remuneration Committee reviews Directors remuneration Committees are also set up to conduct routine business as and and is responsible for the executive share-based incentive plans.
They comprise any two of the Directors It determines, within the parameters set by our shareholders, and certain senior executives and ofcers.
They administer or specic remuneration arrangements for each of the Executive implement certain matters previously agreed by our Boards or the Directors, the remuneration scales and arrangements for NonChief Executive officer.
The Group Secretary is responsible for the Executive Directors and the policy for the remuneration of the tier operation of these committees.
of management directly below the Boards.
The Committee is advised by the Group Secretary on matters of corporate Disclosure Committee governance.
The Boards have set up a Disclosure Committee which is responsible for helping the Boards ensure that financial and The document entitled The Governance of Unilever sets out that other information required to be disclosed publicly is disclosed in a the Committee comprises a minimum of three independent Nontimely manner and that the information that is disclosed Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by is complete and accurate in all material aspects.
The Committee David Simon and its other members are Jeroen van der Veer and comprises the Group Controller, the Group Secretary, the Chief Michael Treschow.
Following Davids retirement at the end of the Legal officer and the Group Treasurer.
2009 AGMs, it is intended that Jeroen van der Veer will succeed him as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Director matters The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Conicts of interest Remuneration Committee meetings for the year ended We attach special importance to avoiding conicts of interest 31 December 2008: between NV and PLC and their Directors.
The Boards are responsible for ensuring that there are rules in place to avoid Name Attendance conicts of interest by Board members.
Conicts of interest are David Simon Chairman 5 of 5 understood not to include transactions and other activities Michael Treschow from 6 February 2008 4 of 4 between companies in the Unilever Group.
Jeroen van der Veer 3 of 5 Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of At the 2008 AGM shareholders approved amendments to Unilever number eligible to attend.
PLCs Articles of Association to reect certain provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 relating to conicts of interest that came into The detailed report of the Remuneration Committee to the force on 1 October 2008, enabling the Board to authorise conicts shareholders on Directors remuneration is on pages 60 to 73. or potential conicts of interest.
Following the change of law, the interests of Directors and their connected persons were reviewed Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee by the Boards.
Authorisation of situational conicts was given by The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee has the Boards to the relevant Director in accordance with the Articles responsibility for the oversight of Unilevers conduct with regard of Association of PLC.
The authorisation included conditions to its corporate and societal obligations and its reputation as a relating to keeping Unilever information condential and to the responsible corporate citizen.
It comprises a minimum of three exclusion from receiving and discussing relevant information at Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by Leon Brittan and its other Board meetings.
Situational conicts will be reviewed annually by members are Narayana Murthy and Hixonia Nyasulu.
Ralph Kugler the Boards as part of the determination of Director independence.
and Genevive Berger stepped down as members of the In between those reviews Directors have a duty to inform the Committee on 15 May 2008 and 30 June 2008 respectively.
Boards of any relevant changes to the situation.
The procedures that Unilever has put in place to deal with conicts of interest The following table shows the attendance of Directors at have operated effectively.
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee meetings for the year ended 31 December 2008: Various formal matters The borrowing powers of NV Directors on behalf of NV are not Name Attendance limited by the Articles of Association of NV.
PLC Directors have the Leon Brittan Chairman 4 of 4 power to borrow on behalf of PLC up to three times the adjusted Genevive Berger to 30 June 2008 2 of 2 capital and reserves of PLC, as dened in its Articles of Ralph Kugler to 15 May 2008 2 of 2 Association, without the approval of shareholders any exceptions Narayana Murthy 2 of 4 requiring an ordinary resolution.
Hixonia Nyasulu 4 of 4 Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require Directors number eligible to attend.
of NV or Directors of PLC to hold shares in NV or PLC.
However, the remuneration arrangements applicable to our Executive See page 75 for the Report of the Corporate Responsibility and Directors require them to build and retain a personal shareholding Reputation Committee to shareholders.
in Unilever equal to at least 150% of their annual base pay.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued indemnification General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held at Directors indemnification, including the terms thereof, is provided times and places decided by our Boards.
NV meetings are for in Article 19 of NVs Articles of Association.
The power to normally held in Rotterdam and PLC meetings are normally held indemnify Directors is provided for in PLCs Articles of Association in London, on consecutive days.
The notices calling the meetings and deeds of indemnity have been issued to all PLC Directors.
normally go out more than 30 days prior to the meetings and Appropriate Directors and Ofcers liability insurance is in place include further information on how to gain access to the AGMs for all Unilever Directors.
Shareholder matters We welcome our external auditors to the AGMs and they are entitled to address the meetings.
Relations with shareholders and other investors We believe it is important both to explain our business Electronic communication developments and financial results to investors and to understand We are committed to efforts to continue more effective ways their objectives.
of communication with our shareholders around the AGMs.
Electronic communication is already an important and established The Chief Financial officer has lead responsibility for investor medium for shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder relations, with the active involvement of the Chief Executive information and reports, and for voting purposes.
They are supported by our Investor Relations department which organises presentations for analysts and investors.
Such NV was one of the founders of the Dutch Shareholders presentations are generally made available on our website.
NV shareholders participating in the Briengs on quarterly results are given via teleconference and are Channel are able to appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their accessible by telephone or via our website.
For further behalf at the NV AGM and NV shareholders who wish to information visit our website at participate should contact their bank or broker.
com investorrelations Shareholders of PLC can choose to receive electronic notication The Boards are briefed on reactions to quarterly results that the Annual Review, Annual Report and Accounts and Notice announcements.
They, or the relevant Board Committee, are of AGMs have been published on our website, instead of briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are relevant to receiving printed copies, and can also electronically appoint a their responsibilities.
proxy to vote on their behalf at the AGM.
Our shareholders can, and do, raise issues directly with the Registration for electronic communication by shareholders of PLC relevant Executive Director or the Chairman and, if appropriate, can be made at www.
com shareholderservices The UK a relevant Non-Executive Director or the Senior Independent Companies Act 2006 contains provisions facilitating Director.
communications between companies and their shareholders electronically and PLC has established such a facility after Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective shareholders consulting with its shareholders in 2007 to offer them the at the AGMs as well as responding to their questions and opportunity to review their method of receiving shareholder enquiries during the course of the year.
We take the views of our communications in the future.
shareholders into account and, in accordance with all applicable legislation and regulations, may consult them in an appropriate Voting rights way before putting proposals to our AGMs.
To be entitled to attend and vote at NV General Meetings shareholders must hold their NV shares on the record date, which General Meetings of shareholders is set by the Board of NV at a date not more than 30 days before The business to be conducted at the AGMs of NV and PLC is set the meeting.
Shareholders do not need to block their shares.
NV out in the separate Notices of AGM for NV and PLC.
It typically shareholders can cast one vote for each 0.16 nominal capital includes approval consideration of the Annual Report and that they hold.
This means that they can cast one vote for each Accounts, appointment of Directors, remuneration framework, NV ordinary share, or NV New York Registry Share.
Shareholders appointment of external auditors, approval of changes to the can vote in person or by proxy.
Similar arrangements apply to Articles of Association, and authorisation for the Boards to allot holders of depositary receipts issued for NV shares and the and repurchase shares, and to restrict pre-emptive rights of holders of NV preference shares see page 54. shareholders.
1 PLC shareholders can cast one vote for each 3 9p nominal capital At the AGMs, a review is given of the progress of the business that they hold.
This means shareholders can cast one vote for over the last year and there is a discussion of current issues.
each PLC ordinary share, or PLC American Depositary Receipt of Shareholders are encouraged to attend the meetings and ask shares.
Shareholders can vote in person at the meeting or by questions, and the question-and-answer sessions form an proxy.
Proxies should be submitted at least 48 hours before the important part of the meetings.
General Meeting to the Registrars, whose details can be found on page 159.
50 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found resolution.
Proposals to alter the provisions in the Articles of in NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the respective Association of NV and PLC respectively relating to the unity of Notices of Meetings.
management require the prior approval of meetings of the holders of the NV special shares and the PLC deferred stock.
The Holders of NV New York Registry Shares or PLC American Articles of Association of NV and the Memorandum and Articles Depositary Receipts of shares will receive a proxy form enabling of Association of PLC can be found on our website at them to authorise and instruct a notary public or Citibank, N. A. www.
com investorrelations corp governance respectively to vote on their behalf at the General Meeting of NV or PLC.
Right to hold shares Unilever places no limitations on the right to hold NV and PLC N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited the holders of NVs special shares.
shares, other group companies of NV which hold ordinary or preference shares, and United Holdings Limited, which owns half Foundation Agreements of PLCs deferred stock, are not permitted to vote at General Meetings.
Equalisation Agreement The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the Voting on each of the resolutions contained in the Notice of shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if they AGMs is conducted by poll.
The final vote is published at the held shares in a single company.
The Equalisation Agreement meetings and the outcome of the votes, including the proxy regulates the mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
votes, is put on Unilevers website.
Under the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the same financial periods and accounting policies.
Dividends are paid Shareholder proposed resolutions in accordance with a formula relating to the nominal values of Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually or NVs and PLCs issued share capital.
together hold 1% of NVs issued capital in the form of shares or depositary receipts for shares, or if they individually or together Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic hold shares or depositary receipts worth or representing the interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
market value in shares as set in respect thereto by or pursuant to the law currently 50 million.
They must submit these requests We pay ordinary dividends for NV and PLC on the same day.
at least 60 days before the date of the General Meeting, and the NV and PLC allocate funds for the dividend from their parts of request will be honoured unless, in the opinion of the Boards, it is our current profits and free reserves.
We pay the same amount against a substantive interest of the Company.
Shareholders who on each NV share as on one PLC share calculated at the relevant together represent at least 10% of the issued capital of NV can exchange rate.
For interim dividends this exchange rate is the also requisition Extraordinary General Meetings to deal with average rate for the quarter before we declare the dividend.
final dividends it is the average rate for the year.
In arriving at the equalised amount we include any tax payable by the Company in Shareholders who together hold shares representing at least 5% respect of the dividend, but calculate it before any tax deductible of the total voting rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who hold by the Company from the dividend.
on average 100 each in nominal value of PLC capital, can require PLC to propose a resolution at a general meeting.
The Equalisation Agreement provides that if one company had PLC shareholders holding in aggregate 10% of the issued PLC losses, or was unable to pay its preference dividends, the loss or ordinary shares are able to convene a general meeting of PLC.
shortfall would be made up out of: Required majorities the current profits of the other company after it has paid its Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder own preference shareholders : meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are then its own free reserves: and other requirements under the applicable laws or NVs or PLCs then the free reserves of the other company.
For example, there are special requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of the If either company could not pay its ordinary dividends, we would Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the follow the same procedure, except that the current profits of the alteration of the Equalisation Agreement see below.
other company would only be used after it had paid its own ordinary shareholders and if the Directors thought this more A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only appropriate than, for example, using its own free reserves.
A proposal to alter the Memorandum and Articles of Association of PLC can be made So far, NV and PLC have always been able to pay their own either by the Board of PLC or by shareholders in the manner dividends, so we have never had to follow this procedure.
If we permitted under the UK Companies Acts.
Unless expressly did, the payment from one company to the other would be specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of PLC, subject to any United Kingdom and Dutch tax and exchange PLCs Articles of Association may be amended by a special control laws applicable at that time.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Under the Equalisation Agreement, the two companies are General Meeting can decide to alter or terminate the Equalisation permitted to pay different dividends in the following exceptional Agreement at the proposal of the Board.
The necessary approval circumstances: of the General Meeting is then that at least one half of the total issued ordinary capital must be represented at an ordinary If the average annual sterling euro exchange rate changed shareholders meeting, where the majority must vote in favour: so substantially from one year to the next that to pay equal and if they would be disadvantaged or the agreement is to be dividends at the current exchange rates, either NV or PLC terminated, at least two-thirds of the total issued preference would have to pay a dividend that was unreasonable that is to share capital must be represented at a preference shareholders say, substantially larger or smaller in its own currency than the meeting, where at least three-quarters of them must vote in dividend it paid in the previous year : or favour.
For PLC, the necessary approval must be given by the holders of a majority of all issued shares voting at a General The governments of the Netherlands or the United Kingdom Meeting and the holders of the ordinary shares, by a simple could in some circumstances place restrictions on the majority voting at a General Meeting where the majority of the proportion of a companys profits which can be paid out as ordinary shares in issue are represented.
This could mean that in order to pay equal dividends one company would have to pay out an amount which would In addition, Article 3 of the PLC Articles of Association states that breach the limitations in place at the time, or that the other PLCs Board must carry out the Equalisation Agreement and that company would have to pay a smaller dividend.
the other provisions of the Articles of Association are subject to it.
In either of these rare cases, NV and PLC could pay different We are advised by counsel that these provisions oblige our Boards amounts of dividend if the Boards thought it appropriate.
The to carry out the Equalisation Agreement, unless it is amended or company paying less than the equalised dividend would put the terminated with the required approval of the shareholders of both difference between the dividends into a reserve: an equalisation companies.
If the Boards fail to enforce the Agreement, reserve in the case of exchange rate uctuations, or a dividend shareholders can compel them to do so under Dutch and UK law.
reserve in the case of a government restriction.
The reserves would be paid out to its shareholders when it became possible or As announced on 5 February 2009, at the 2009 AGMs and at reasonable to do so, which would ensure that the shareholders of separate Meetings of Ordinary Shareholders we will be proposing both companies would ultimately be treated the same.
resolutions to authorise the Directors to modify the Equalisation Agreement to facilitate the payment of quarterly dividends from If both companies were to go into liquidation, NV and PLC would 2010 onwards.
This will allow us to change to a simpler and more each use any funds legally available to pay the prior claims of transparent dividend practice for the Unilever group.
These their own preference shareholders.
Then they would use any changes will result in more frequent payments to shareholders, surplus to pay each others preference shareholders, if necessary.
and better align with the cash ow generation of the business.
After these claims had been met, they would pay out any equalisation or dividend reserve to their own shareholders before The Equalisation Agreement can be found on our website at pooling the remaining surplus.
This would be distributed to the www.
com investorrelations corp governance ordinary shareholders of both companies on an equal basis.
If one company were to go into liquidation, we would apply the The Deed of Mutual Covenants same principles as if both had gone into liquidation The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and simultaneously.
their respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way for the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
In principle, issues of bonus shares and rights offerings can only They shall exchange all relevant information about their respective be made in ordinary shares.
Again, we would ensure that businesses the intention being to create and maintain a shareholders of NV and PLC received shares in equal proportions.
common operating platform for the Unilever Group throughout The subscription price for one new NV share would have to be the world.
The Deed illustrates some of the information which the same, at the prevailing exchange rate, as the price for one makes up this common platform, such as the mutual exchange new PLC share.
Neither company can issue or reduce capital and free use of know-how, patents, trade marks and all other without the consent of the other.
The Articles of Association of NV establish that any payment The Deed contains provisions which allow the Directors of NV and under the Equalisation Agreement will be credited or debited to PLC to take any actions to ensure that the dividend-generating capacity of each of NV and PLC is aligned with the economic the income statement for the financial year in question.
interests of their respective shareholders.
These provisions also allow assets to be transferred between NV and PLC and their Under Article 2 of the Articles of Association of NV and Clause 3 associated companies as dened in the Deed to ensure that of the Memorandum of Association of PLC, each company is assets are allocated in the most efficient manner.
These required to carry out the Equalisation Agreement with the other.
arrangements are designed to create a balance between Both documents state that the Agreement cannot be changed or the two parent companies and the funds generated by them, terminated without the approval of shareholders.
For NV, the for the benefit of their respective sets of shareholders.
52 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued The Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing on the understanding that this authority is limited to 10% of the Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing issued share capital of the Company, plus an additional 10% of between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, the issued share capital of the Company in connection with or on guarantee the borrowings of the other.
The two companies also the occasion of mergers and acquisitions.
jointly guarantee the borrowings of their subsidiaries.
These arrangements are used, as a matter of financial policy, for certain At the 2008 AGM the Board of NV was authorised, in accordance significant public borrowings.
They enable lenders to rely on our with Article 98 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, until combined financial strength.
15 November 2009 to cause the Company to buy back its own shares and depositary receipts thereof, within the limits set by Share capital matters law, either through purchase on a stock exchange or otherwise, at a price, excluding expenses, not lower than the nominal value Combined earnings per share of the shares and not higher than 10% above the average of the We calculate earnings per share on a combined basis.
In our closing price of the shares on Eurolist by Euronext Amsterdam for combined earnings per share calculation, we assume that both the five business days before the day on which the purchase is companies will be able to pay their dividends out of their part of made.
The Board agreed at the AGM that it would use the our profits.
This has always been the case in the past, but if we authority to purchase more than 10% of the Companys issued did have to make a payment from one to the other it could result share capital.
in additional taxes, and reduce our combined earnings per share.
The above mentioned authorities are renewed annually.
Further information about the calculation of earnings per share, including the calculation on a diluted basis, can be found in note PLCs issued share capital on 31 December 2008 was made up of: 7 on page 96.
1 40 760 420 split into 1 310 156 361 ordinary shares of 3 9p Share capital each: and NVs issued share capital on 31 December 2008 was made up of: 100 000 of deferred stock.
274 356 432 split into 1 714 727 700 ordinary shares of The total number of voting rights attached to PLCs outstanding 0.16 each: shares are shown hereunder: 1 028 568 split into 2 400 ordinary shares numbered 1 to Total number of votes % of issued capital 2 400, known as special shares: and 113 599 014 split into several classes 4%, 6% and 7% of a 1 310 156 361 ordinary shares 1 310 156 361 99.76 cumulative preference shares nancing preference shares.
100 000 deferred stock 3 214 285 0.24 a Of which 26 696 994 shares were held by PLC in treasury and The voting rights attached to NV's outstanding shares are split as 31 887 851 shares were held by NV group companies or by follows: share trusts as at 31 December 2008.
These shares are not Total number of votes % of issued capital voted on.
a 1 714 727 700 ordinary shares 1 714 727 700 70.53 The Board of PLC under sections 80 and 89 of the UK Companies 2 400 special shares 6 428 550 0.26 750 000 4% cumulative Act 1985 may, subject to the passing of the appropriate preference shares 200 906 250 8.26 resolutions at a meeting of shareholders, issue shares within the 161 060 6% cumulative limits prescribed within the resolutions.
At the 2008 AGM the preference shares 431 409 276 17.75 Directors were authorised to issue new shares pursuant to section 29 000 7% cumulative 80 of that Act, limited to a maximum of 13 450 000 nominal preference shares 77 678 312 3.20 value, which at the time represented approximately 33% of the a Of which 141 560 629 shares were held in treasury and Companys issued Ordinary share capital and pursuant to section 35 663 020 shares were held in connection with share-based 89 of that Act, to disapply pre-emption rights up to approximately payments as at 31 December 2008.
These shares are not voted on.
5% of PLCs issued ordinary share capital.
These authorities are renewed annually.
NV may issue shares not yet issued and grant rights to subscribe for shares only pursuant to a resolution of the General Meeting At the 2008 AGM the Board of PLC was authorised in accordance of Shareholders or of another corporate body designated for such with its Articles of Association to make market purchases of its purpose by a resolution of the General Meeting.
At the AGM held ordinary shares representing just under 10% of the Companys on 15 May 2008 the Board was designated, in accordance with issued capital and within the limits prescribed within the Articles 96 and 96a of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, as resolution until the earlier of the 15-month anniversary after the the corporate body authorised until 15 November 2009 to resolve passing of the resolution or the conclusion of the 2009 AGM.
on the issue of or on the granting of rights to subscribe for shares not yet issued and to restrict or exclude the statutory preemption rights that accrue to shareholders upon issue of shares, Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 53 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Margarine Union 1930 Limited: Conversion Rights Voting by the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofce The first Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company Shares for which the Foundation has not granted voting proxies which became PLC.
When he died in 1925, he left in his will a or for which it has not received voting instructions are voted large number of PLC shares in various trusts.
on by the Foundation in such a way as it deems to be in the interests of the holders of the depositary receipts.
This voting When the will trusts were varied in 1983, the interests of the policy is laid down in the Conditions of Administration that beneciaries of his will were also preserved.
Four classes of special apply to the depositary receipts.
shares were created in Margarine Union 1930 Limited, a subsidiary of PLC.
One of these classes can be converted at the Specic provisions apply in the event that a meeting of holders of end of the year 2038 into 70 875 000 PLC ordinary shares of NV 7% cumulative preference shares is convened.
This currently represents 5.4% of PLCs issued ordinary capital.
These convertible shares replicate the rights which the If a change to shareholders rights is proposed, the Foundation descendants of the first Viscount would have had under his will.
will let shareholders know if it intends to vote, at least 14 days This class of the special shares only has a right to dividends in in advance if possible.
specified circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid.
PLC guarantees the dividend and conversion rights of the Hitherto the majority of votes cast by ordinary shareholders at special shares.
NV meetings have been cast by the Foundation.
Unilever and the Foundation have a policy of actively encouraging holders Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofce of depositary receipts to exercise their voting rights in As at 27 February 2009, around 73% of NVs ordinary shares and NV meetings.
around 34% of NVs 7% cumulative preference shares were held by the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofce Stichting Unilever considers the arrangements of the Foundation Administratiekantoor Unilever N. V., a trust ofce with a board appropriate and in the interest of NV and its shareholders given independent of Unilever.
As part of its corporate objects, the the size of the voting rights attached to the nancing preference Foundation issues depositary receipts in exchange for these shares and the relatively low attendance of holders of ordinary shares.
These depositary receipts are listed on Euronext shares in its AGMs.
Amsterdam, as are the NV ordinary and 7% preference shares themselves.
Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofces shareholding Foundation NV Trust Ofces shareholding uctuates daily its Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances holdings on 27 February 2009 were: exchange their depositary receipts for the underlying shares and vice versa.
NV ordinary shares of 0.16: 1 247 992 862 72.78% : and NV 7% cumulative preference shares of 428.57: 9 776 Holders of depositary receipts are entitled to dividends and all 33.71% : economic benets on the underlying shares held by the Foundation.
Further information on the Foundation, including its Articles of Association and Conditions of Administration, can be found on its The members of the board at the foundation are Mr J H Schraven website at www.
nl chairman, Mr P P fide Koning, Prof Dr L Koopmans and Mr A A Olijslager.
Requirements and compliance general Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the The Foundation reports periodically on its activities.
Netherlands, the UK and as a foreign private issuer in the US.
In this section we report on our compliance with the corporate Voting by holders of depositary receipts governance regulations and best practice codes applicable in the Although the depositary receipts themselves do not formally have Netherlands and the UK and we also describe compliance with voting rights, holders of depositary receipts are in practice corporate governance standards in the US.
They can attend all NVs General Meetings, either personally or by proxy, and also have right of Under the UK Companies Act 2006 and rules of the US Securities speech.
The holders of the depositary receipts will then and Exchange Commission, we are required to provide automatically, without limitation and under all circumstances, information on contracts and other arrangements essential or receive a voting proxy on behalf of the Foundation to vote on the material to the business of the Group.
We believe we do not have underlying shares.
any such contracts or arrangements.
The Foundation is obliged to follow voting instructions of holders of depositary receipts.
The same applies to the voting instructions of holders of depositary receipts not attending a shareholders meeting and who issue voting instructions to the Foundation via the Dutch Shareholders Communication Channel.
54 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Our governance arrangements are designed and structured to Requirements the Netherlands promote and further the interests of our companies and their shareholders.
The Boards reserve the right, in cases where they General decide such to be conducive to the interests of the companies NV is required to state in its Annual Report and Accounts whether and the enterprise connected therewith or our shareholders, to it complies or will comply with the Principles P and best depart from that which is set out in the present and previous practice provisions bpp of the Dutch Corporate Governance sections in relation to our corporate governance.
Further changes Code the Dutch Code and, if it does not comply, to explain the will be reported in future Annual Reports and Accounts and, reasons for this.
As will be clear from the description of our when necessary, through changes to the relevant documents governance arrangements, NV complies with almost all of the published on our website.
As appropriate, proposals for change principles and best practice provisions of the Dutch Code, a copy will be put to our shareholders for approval.
of which is available at www.
nl The text that follows sets out certain statements that the Dutch Further information can be found on our website and in the Code invites us to make to our shareholders that are not included document entitled The Governance of Unilever.
This describes elsewhere in this Annual Report and Accounts as well as areas of the terms of reference of our Board Committees, including their non-compliance.
It will be kept up to date with changes in our internal constitutional arrangements that our Boards may make On 10 December 2008 the Dutch Corporate Governance Code from time to time and it is available on our website at Compliance Committee published a revised version of the Code, www.
com Investorrelations corp governance which is intended to become applicable to our annual reporting over 2009 and we therefore intend to report compliance under Requirements European Union the revised Code in our Annual Report and Accounts 2009.
Following implementation of the EU Takeover Directive, certain information is required to be disclosed in relation to control and Board and Committee structures share structures and interests of NV and PLC.
Such disclosures, NV has a one-tier board, consisting of both Executive and, as a which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual Report, include majority, Non-Executive Directors.
We achieve compliance of our the following: board arrangements with the Dutch Code, which is for the most part based on the customary two-tier structure in the there are no requirements to obtain the approval of NV or PLC, Netherlands, by, as far as is possible and practicable, applying the or of other holders of securities in NV or PLC, for a transfer of provisions of the Dutch Code relating to members of a such securities: management board to our Executive Directors and by applying the provisions relating to members of a supervisory board to our there are no arrangements by which, with NV or PLC's coNon-Executive Directors.
Management tasks not capable of operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a delegation are performed by the Board as a whole.
Reference is person other than the holder of such securities: made to Ps II and III and corresponding bpps.
Reference is also made to the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance, NV and PLC are not aware of any agreements between holders which is fully tailored to the one-tier board model see page 44. of securities which may result in restrictions on the transfer of such securities or on voting rights: Risk management and control Reference is made to the description of Unilevers principal risks neither NV or PLC are parties to any significant agreement on pages 25 to 27 and risk management, internal controls and which include provisions that take effect, alter or terminate disclosure controls and procedures on page 28. such agreement upon a change of control following a takeover bid: The Board considers that the internal risk management and control systems are appropriate for our business and in NV and PLC do not have any agreements with any Director or compliance with best practice provision II.
1.3. employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a takeover except that most of In best practice provision II.
1.4 the Dutch Code invites our Board Unilever's share schemes contain provisions which operate in to make a statement on our internal risk management and the event of a takeover of Unilever, which provisions may for control systems.
In its reports published in 2005 and 2007 the instance cause options or awards granted to employees under Dutch Corporate Governance Code Monitoring Committee has such schemes to vest after a takeover or be exchanged into made recommendations concerning the application of this best new awards for shares in another entity: and practice provision.
In accordance with its recommendations and in light of the above, the Board believes that as regards financial the Trustees of the PLC employee share trusts may vote or reporting risks: abstain in any way they think t and in doing so may take into account both financial and non-financial interests of the the risk management and control systems provide reasonable beneciaries of the employee share trusts or their dependents.
assurance that the financial statements do not contain any Historically the Trustees tend not to exercise this right.
material inaccuracies: the risk management and control systems have worked properly in 2008: there are no indications that the risk management and control systems will not work properly in 2009: Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 55 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued no material failings in the risk management and control systems does not under Dutch law preclude in all circumstances the were discovered in the year under review or the current year up continued right of the Board of the company to exercise its powers.
to the date of signing these accounts: Provision of information and, as regards operational, strategic, legislative, financial and We consider it important to comply with all applicable statutory regulatory risks, no material failings in the risk management and regulations on the equal treatment of shareholders and provision control systems were discovered in the year under review.
of information and communication with shareholders and other parties P IV.
The aforesaid statements are not statements in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act Meetings of analysts and presentations to investors 2002.
We have extensive procedures for handling relations with and communicating with shareholders, investors, analysts and the Retention period of shares media also see page 50.
The important presentations and The Dutch Code recommends that shares granted to executive meetings are conducted as far as practicable in accordance with directors must be retained for a period of at least five years bpp bpp IV.
Due to their large number and overlap in information, II.
Our shareholder approved remuneration policy requires however, some of the less important ones are not announced in Executive Directors to build and retain a personal shareholding in advance, made accessible to everyone or put on our website.
Unilever equal to at least 150% of their annual base pay.
The Board believes that this is in line with the spirit of the Dutch Requirements the United Kingdom Code.
PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the UK and listed on the London Stock Exchange, to state how it has applied Severance pay the principles and how far it has complied with the provisions set It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Directors out in Section 1 of the 2006 UK Combined Code on Corporate at no more than one years salary, unless the Board, at the Governance the Combined Code, a copy of which is available proposal of the Remuneration Committee, nds this manifestly at www.
uk unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated by applicable law bpp II.
In the preceding pages we have described how we have applied the principles and the provisions in the Combined Code.
In 2008, Regulations for transactions in securities in other Unilever complied with the Combined Code except in the companies following areas: The Dutch Code recommends that a director shall give periodic notice of any changes in his holding of securities in other Dutch The Remuneration Committee currently has two independent listed companies bpp II.
We are a Non-Executive Directors on its membership.
Michael Treschow multinational company operating all over the world and our was appointed a member of the Remuneration Committee in Directors come from a wide variety of countries.
The Committee and the Board are working to have a broader and more general requirement for our Directors, seek a new Non-Executive Director appointment for that requiring them, upon request, to disclose to the Group Secretary Committee, and the membership of the Committee will be their holdings and transactions in securities in any listed company.
reviewed again in light of David Simons forthcoming retirement.
Conicts of interest In the event of a potential conict of interest, the provisions of Due to the requirement for Unilever to hold two AGMs for its the Dutch Code P II.
Conicts of interest respective companies on consecutive days, it may not always be are not understood to include transactions and other activities possible for all Directors, and possibly the Chairmen of the between companies in the Unilever Group.
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, to be present at both meetings.
The Chairman ensures that a majority Financing preference shares of Directors attend both meetings and that at least one NV issued 4%, 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares member of each Committee attends each AGM.
Their voting rights are based on their nominal value, as prescribed by Dutch law.
The Dutch Code Risk management and control recommends that the voting rights on such shares should, in any Reference is made to the description of Unilevers principal risks event when they are newly issued, be based on their economic on pages 25 to 27 and risk management, internal controls and value rather than on their nominal value bpp IV.
NV agrees disclosure controls and procedures on page 28. with this principle but cannot unilaterally reduce voting rights of its outstanding preference shares.
Our procedures cover financial, operational, social, strategic and environmental risks and regulatory matters.
They are in line with Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company the recommendations of Internal Control Revised Guidance for With reference to bpp IV.
3.9, NV confirms that it has no antiDirectors on the UK Combined Code, published by the Internal takeover constructions, in the sense of constructions that are Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants intended solely, or primarily, to block future hostile public offers for in England & Wales in October 2005 The Turnbull Guidance.
Nor does NV have any constructions whose specic purpose is to prevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital, from appointing or dismissing members of the Board and subsequently altering the Articles of Association.
The acquisition through a public offer of a majority of the shares in a company 56 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Requirements the United States Risk management and control Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and Reference is made to the description of Unilevers risks on pages must therefore comply with such of the requirements of US 25 to 27 and risk management, internal controls and disclosure legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, regulations controls and procedures on page 28. enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Standards of the New York Stock Exchange as are applicable to foreign private Based on an evaluation by the Boards, the Chief Executive officer issuers.
In some cases the requirements are mandatory and in and the Chief Financial officer concluded that the design and other cases the obligation is to comply or explain.
operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures, including those dened in United States Securities Exchange Act We have complied with the requirements concerning corporate of 1934 - Rule 13a 15 e, as at 31 December 2008 were governance that were in force during 2008.
Attention is drawn effective, and that subsequently until the date of the approval of in particular to the remit of the Audit Committee on page 48 the Annual Report by the Board, there have been no significant and the Report of the Audit Committee on page 74. changes in the Groups internal controls, or in other factors that could signicantly affect those controls.
Actions already taken to ensure compliance that are not specically disclosed elsewhere or otherwise clear from reading Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act this document include: of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
This requirement will be reported on the issuance of a Code of Ethics for senior financial ofcers: separately and will form part of Unilevers Annual Report on Form the issuance of instructions restricting the employment of 20-F. former employees of the audit rm: and the establishment of a policy on reporting requirements under SEC rules relating to standards of professional conduct for US attorneys.
In each of these cases, existing practices were revised and or documented in such a way as to conform to the new requirements.
The Code of Ethics applies to the senior executive, financial and accounting ofcers and comprises the standards prescribed by the SEC, and a copy has been posted on our website at www.
com investorrelations corp governance The Code of Ethics comprises an extract of the relevant provisions of Unilevers Code of Business Principles and the more detailed rules of conduct that implement it.
The only amendment to these preexisting provisions and rules that was made in preparing the Code of Ethics was made at the request of the Audit Committee and consisted of a strengthening of the explicit requirement to keep proper accounting records.
No waiver from any provision of the Code of Ethics was granted to any of the persons falling within the scope of the SEC requirement in 2008.
We are required by US securities laws and the Listing Standards of the New York Stock Exchange to have an Audit Committee that satisfies Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and the Listing Standards of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
We are compliant with these requirements.
We are also required to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices differ from those typically followed by US companies listed on the NYSE.
In addition to the information we have given you in this document about our corporate governance arrangements, further details are provided in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever, which is on our website at www.
com investorrelations corp governance We are compliant with the Listing Standards of the New York Stock Exchange applicable to foreign private issuers.
Our corporate governance practices do not signicantly differ from those required of US companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
We also confirm that our shareholders have the opportunity to vote on equity compensation plans.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 57 Report of the Directors Corporate governance Biographical details The Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Executive Directors and NonJames Lawrence Executive Directors of NV and PLC are shown below.
Please refer Chief Financial officer to pages 18 and 19 for their biographical details and their see details on page 18 responsibilities in connection with Board committees.
Harish Manwani Chairman President Asia, Africa, Central & Eastern Europe Michael Treschow Nationality: Indian.
Appointed to UEx April 2005 as President Asia Africa.
Appointed President Asia, Africa, Central & Vice-Chairman Eastern Europe in May 2008.
He is also The Lord Simon of Highbury CBE Non-Executive Chairman, Hindustan Lever.
Previous posts include: Business Group President, Home and Personal Care, North Executive Directors America 2004. Business Group President, Home and Personal Paul Polman Chief Executive officer Care, Latin America 2001 and Senior Vice President, Hair Care James Lawrence Chief Financial officer and Oral Care 2000.
Non-Executive Directors Sandy Ogg The Rt Hon The Lord Brittan of Spennithorne QC DL Chief Human Resources officer Professor Wim Dik Nationality: American.
Appointed Chief HR officer April Charles Golden 2005.
Previous posts include: SVP Human Byron Grote Resources, Foods 2003.
Prior to joining Unilever he worked for Narayana Murthy Motorola as SVP, Leadership, Learning and Performance Hixonia Nyasulu Management.
Kees Storm Jeroen van der Veer Michael Polk President Americas Unilever Executive UEx Nationality: American.
Previous posts include: Paul Polman President Unilever USA.
Prior to joining in Unilever, he held various Chief Executive officer senior positions at Kraft Foods including President, Biscuits and see details on page 18 Snacks Sector and President, Asia Pacic Region.
External appointments: Director, GS1 Global, Students in Free Enterprise, Doug Baillie and Grocery Manufacturers of America.
President, Western Europe Nationality: British.
Appointed President of Western Europe in May 2008.
Previous posts UEx members are treated as executive ofcers and senior include: CEO, Hindustan Unilever Limited and Group Vice management for US purposes and key management personnel for President, South Asia 2006, Group Vice-President - Africa, Middle IFRS purposes.
All members of the UEx have existing agreements East & Turkey AMET 2005, President, Africa Regional Group with varying terms, however, all agreements include a notice 2004, National Manager, Unilever South Africa, 2000, Managing period of twelve months although local law and practice may Director Lever Pond's South Africa 1997, Vice President, Home sometimes impact these provisions.
Details of the remuneration and Personal Care for the Africa Business Group 1994, Sales paid and share awards are shown in aggregate in note 31 on Director 1988. page 135.
Vindi Banga President Foods, Home & Personal Care Nationality: Indian.
Appointed to UEx April 2005 as President Foods.
Appointed President Foods, Home & Personal Care in May 2008.
Previous posts include: Business Group President Home and Personal Care, Asia 2004 in addition to Non-Executive Chairman, Hindustan Lever 2004-2005.
Chairman and Managing Director, Hindustan Lever 2000-2004.
Professor Genevive Berger Chief Research and Development officer Nationality: French.
Professor and Hospital Practitioner, Medical University Teaching Hospital, Paris 2003-2008.
Member, Technical Committee, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE.
Chairman, Advisory Board, Health for the European Commission.
Director, Biotech and Agri-Food Department 1998-2000 and Director of Technology 2000, the French Ministry for Education.
Director General, National Centre for scientific Research CNRS, France 2000-2003.
Previously Non-Executive Director of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC 2007-2008.
58 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008
