28 29 Corporate Governance statement Statement of compliance with the code of best practice The Company is committed to the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Combined Code and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year except for the following matters: A.
4.6 A Nominations Committee has not been established because the full Board carries out all activities of a Nominations Committee: A.
7.2 Two Non-Executive Directors who served during the year of whom, one has since retired do not have contracts of employment for a specic term due to their appointment being prior to the issue of the 2003 Combined Code: and C. 3.1 The Company joined the FTSE 350 in December 2006 and ceased to be considered a small company for Corporate Governance purposes at that point.
Therefore, the Company was required to have an Audit Committee with at least three members.
The Board has complied with this requirement since the appointment of Jonathan Brooks to the Board in July 2007.
The Company has applied these Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, including both the main principles and supporting principles, by complying with the Combined Code as noted above.
Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Directors remuneration report.
Composition and operation of the Board The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three Non-Executive Directors, including the Senior Independent Director, and two Executive Directors being the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
On 12 July 2007 and 7 January 2008 respectively, Jonathan Brooks and Philip Dayer were appointed as Non-Executive Directors, both of whom were considered by the Board to be independent on appointment.
On 31 March 2008, Colin Garrett retired from the Board.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are distinct and the division of responsibility between these roles has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board and ensuring that it meets its obligations and responsibilities.
The Chief Executive is responsible for providing overall leadership, providing management to the Group and for the execution of the Groups strategic and operating plans.
Brief biographical details of all Board members are set out on page 23.
The membership of all Board Committees is set out below: Board Audit Remuneration Nick Prest Chairman Chairman Member David Mann Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Member Member Chairman Colin Garrett Independent Non-Executive Director Member Chairman Member Jonathan Brooks Independent Non-Executive Director Member Chairman Member Philip Dayer Independent Non-Executive Director Member Member Member Richard Longdon Chief Executive Member Paul Taylor Finance Director Member to 31 March 2008 from 1 April 2008 The Board has considered the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and believes that all are currently independent of management and free from any material business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
David Mann is the Senior Independent Director and he will have served nine years as a Non-Executive Director in June 2008.
Notwithstanding this, the Board believes that he remains independent and continues to be effective in his role.
David Mann has never had any business relationship with the Group, has never been an employee and has never participated in any share option plan or been a member of the Groups pension schemes.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
There is a formal schedule of matters specically reserved for the Boards decision that covers key areas of the Groups affairs, which includes overall responsibility for the strategy of the Group, Corporate Governance, review of trading performance and forecasts, risk management, Board membership, communications with shareholders, the approval of major transactions including mergers and acquisitions, the approval of the financial statements and annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
The Board met ten times during the year and the Board also conducted a full days strategy meeting, receiving presentations from senior management.
The Board delegates the day to day responsibility for managing the Group to the Executive Directors.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information.
Brieng papers are distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors in advance of Board meetings and all members of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee respectively prior to meetings of such Committees.
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors' report 30 31 Corporate Governance statement continued Composition and operation of the Board continued The attendance of individual Directors at Board meetings and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the table below: Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings attended attended attended Number of meetings held 10 2 2 Nick Prest 10 2 David Mann 10 2 2 Colin Garrett 10 2 2 Jonathan Brooks 6 1 1 Philip Dayer 3 1 Richard Longdon 10 Paul Taylor 9 from date of appointment The full Board carries out the activities of the Nominations Committee which includes nomination, selection and appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors, succession planning and the composition of the Board, particularly in the relation to the diversity of skills and experience.
Therefore, a Nominations Committee has not been established.
During the year the Board considered the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepared a description of the role and capabilities required for two new Non-Executive Directors.
The Board was assisted by an external search consultancy Hanson Green in this process and to help identify potential candidates.
The Board reviewed the shortlist of candidates and the Chairman and Chief Executive were nominated to conduct the initial interviews.
The Chairman and Chief Executive recommended a candidate for each position to the Board and the Board then jointly agreed the appointments.
This resulted in the appointment of Jonathan Brooks and Philip Dayer to the Board as Non-Executive Directors on 12 July 2007 and 7 January 2008 respectively.
The Board believes that Jonathan Brooks brings significant skills, commercial and international experience and understanding of high growth markets to the Group through his experience with other technology businesses and that Philip Dayer brings significant skills and strategic advice to the Group through his work with related businesses.
Both Non-Executive Directors received a formal induction to the Group which involved meetings with fellow Directors and senior management, and presentations from Research and Development, Business Strategy, Finance and Sales.
In addition, where appropriate, meetings with advisers to the Group and the Board were arranged to assist in brieng the Directors on appointment.
Jonathan Brooks and Philip Dayer are available for dialogue with shareholders and will attend the Annual General Meeting on 10 July 2008.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to undertake training in furtherance of their specic roles and general duties as a Non-Executive Director.
Meetings were held between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors during the year without the Executives being present, to discuss appropriate matters as necessary.
The Combined Code requires that the Board undertake a formal annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Chairman conducted a review of both the structure and skills of the Board generally and the individuals involved.
This included discussions with fellow Board members and covered Board structure, effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, information and communication.
The Chairmans performance was assessed by the Senior Independent Director, having consulted with the other Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairmans conclusions, which were accepted by the Board, were that the Board and its Committees are operating effectively.
A formal evaluation of the performance of the Executive Directors, Richard Longdon and Paul Taylor was also carried out by the Remuneration Committee as part of the process for determining their remuneration for the year.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of the performance of their duties in their capacity as Directors to the Company.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent the Director is proven to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has maintained Directors and ofcers liability insurance cover throughout the year.
The Chairman ensures that the Directors take independent professional advice where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors at the Groups expense in the appropriate circumstances.
All members of the Board have access to the advice of the Company Secretary.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, all Directors are required to retire and submit themselves for re-election at least every three years by rotation, and also following their appointment.
David Mann is subject to re-election and, given his length of service, annual re-election under the Combined Code.
Jonathan Brooks and Philip Dayer are subject to election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors' report 30 31 Composition and operation of the Board continued Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years with the exception of David Mann and Colin Garrett who do not have specic terms of appointment.
However, as noted above, Colin Garrett retired on 31 March 2008.
Both were appointed prior to the issue of the 2003 Combined Code.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours and will be available for inspection on the day of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board has two Committees: Audit and Remuneration.
All Non-Executive Directors are members of both Committees.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the duties of the Committees are set out in formal terms of reference.
They are available on request from the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours and are available on the Companys website at www.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy for Executive remuneration and determines the individual remuneration packages on behalf of the Board for the Executive Directors of the Group.
The Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation, except when the Chief Executives own remuneration package is being discussed.
The Committee has access to professional advice, both inside and outside the Company, in the furtherance of its duties.
The Directors remuneration report sets out in more detail the Remuneration Committees policies and practices on Executive remuneration.
Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee which met twice during the year, were Colin Garrett, David Mann, Jonathan Brooks and Philip Dayer.
The Chairman of the Committee during the year was Colin Garrett who was deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
He is a Chartered Accountant and has held a number of senior financial roles in his career.
Jonathan Brooks and Philip Dayer joined the Audit Committee on their appointment to the Board.
Jonathan Brooks attended the Audit Committee meeting in November 2007, the purpose of which was to approve the interim results.
There have been no meetings of the Audit Committee since then up to 31 March 2008 and therefore Philip Dayer did not attend any meetings up to the year end but informal discussions did take place between the members.
Subsequent to the year end, an Audit Committee meeting was held to approve the annual results which was attended by all members.
Jonathan Brooks was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee from 1 April 2008 following the retirement of Colin Garrett and he is deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience, being a Chartered Management Accountant and having held a number of senior financial positions.
The Audit Committee met twice during the year to review the scope of the audit and the audit procedures, the format and content of the audited financial statements and interim reports, including the notes and the accounting principles applied.
The Audit Committee also reviews any proposed change in accounting policies and any recommendations from the Groups auditors regarding improvements to internal controls and the adequacy of resources within the Groups finance function.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with external auditors.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Controls in place to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditors are not compromised include monitoring of the independence and effectiveness of the audit, and a review of the scope, fee and performance of the external auditors.
In addition, audit partners are rotated every five years and a formal statement of independence is received from the auditors each year.
The Board and the Audit Committee are satisfied that the independence of the auditors has been maintained.
The Audit Committee monitors fees paid to the auditors for non-audit work.
During the year there was limited non-audit work performed by the auditors and an analysis of non-audit fees is provided in note 7 to the financial statements.
The Group engages other independent rms of accountants to perform tax consulting work and other consulting engagements to ensure that the independence of the auditors is not compromised.
There is a formal whistle-blowing policy which has been communicated to employees.
This policy provides information on the process to follow in the event any employee feels it appropriate to make a disclosure.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the policy provides an adequate basis for employees to make representations in confidence to the Group and for appropriate and proportionate investigations.
The Board and the Audit Committee have considered the requirement to have an internal audit function and given the Groups relative size, does not consider one necessary at this point but will continue to monitor this annually.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders Communication with shareholders is given high priority by the Board.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director have meetings with representatives of institutional shareholders and analysts at least twice a year, following the announcement of the interim and full year results, but also at other times during the year as necessary.
The Chairman also met with certain shareholders during the year to discuss strategy and performance of the business.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, David Mann, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or if such contact would be inappropriate.
The Company also held an investor day in January 2008 when a number of shareholders visited the Head Ofce in Cambridge and received presentations from senior management.
These meetings seek to build a mutual understanding of objectives with its major shareholders by discussing long-term strategy and obtaining feedback.
The Board also receives formal feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders through the Companys public relations adviser and financial adviser.
The Board is also appraised of discussions with major shareholders to ensure that Executive and Non-Executive Directors consider any matter raised by shareholders and to enable all Directors to understand shareholder views.
The Chairman, Senior Independent and Non-Executive Directors are available for dialogue with shareholders at any time and attend together with the other members of the Board the Annual General Meeting, but are not routinely involved in investor relations or shareholder communications.
Corporate information is also available on the Companys website, www.
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors' report 32 33 Corporate Governance statement continued Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with investors and all shareholders are encouraged to participate.
The Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions.
Internal control and risk management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure and by its very nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, which have been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report and believes that it is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
The key elements of the systems of internal controls currently include: there is an Executive Board comprising the Group Executive Directors, Head of Sales, Head of Business Strategy, Head of Research and Development and Head of Human Resources.
Each member has responsibility for specic aspects of the Groups operations.
They meet on a regular basis and are responsible for the operational strategy, reviewing operating results, identication and mitigation of risks, and communicating and application of the Groups policies and procedures.
Where appropriate, matters are reported to the Board: the Board receive regular reports from the Executive Directors, Head of Sales, Head of Human Resources, Regional Sales Managers and Head of Research and Development on key developments, financial performance and operational issues in the business: operational and financial controls and procedures which include authorisation limits for expenditure, sales contracts and capital expenditure, signing authorities, organisation structure, Group policies, segregation of duties and reviews by management: there is an annual budget process which is reviewed and approved by the Board: the Executive Board has regular meetings with the Regional Sales managers and with Research and Development managers to discuss actual performance against forecast, budget and prior years.
The operating results are reported on a monthly basis to the Board and compared to the budget and the latest forecast as appropriate: and insurance cover is maintained to insure all major risk areas of the Group based on the scale of the risk and availability of the cover in the external market.
The Boards monitoring covers all material controls, including financial, non-financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identied, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specic assessment for the purpose of this Annual report.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors' report
