Report of the Directors Report of the Nomination Committee Terms of Reference Activities of the Committee during the year The Nomination Committee comprises two Independent NonThe Committee met six times in 2008.
The meetings were fully Executive Directors and the Chairman.
It is chaired by David attended by David Simon and Michael Treschow.
Jeroen van der Simon, Vice Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Its other Veer attended four meetings.
The members also regularly met members are Michael Treschow and Jeroen van der Veer.
The outside of formal Committee meetings to discuss succession Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for drawing up The Committee proposed the nomination of all Directors offering selection criteria and appointment procedures for Directors.
themselves for re-election at the 2008 AGMs.
During 2008, the Under Unilevers corporate governance arrangements Executive Committee also proposed the nominations of two new Executive and Non-Executive Directors offer themselves for election each Directors.
year at the Annual General Meetings.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for recommending candidates for nomination as Jim Lawrence was appointed as an Executive Director at the Executive Directors, including Chief Executive officer, and NonAGMs in May 2008, following his appointment as Chief Financial Executive Directors each year based on the process of evaluations officer in September 2007. referred to below.
After Directors have been appointed by shareholders the Committee recommends to the Board candidates During 2008 the Committee conducted an extensive search for a for election as Chairman and Vice-Chairman.
The Committee also new Chief Executive officer to succeed Patrick Cescau who retired has responsibility for supervising the policy of the Chief Executive on 31 December 2008.
The Committee was supported by an officer on the selection criteria and appointment procedures for outside executive search rm engaged to identify suitable senior management and it keeps oversight of all matters relating candidates for the role.
The process resulted in the Committees to corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of recommendation to the Boards to nominate Paul Polman as the Boards.
The Committees Terms of Reference are available on Patrick Cescaus successor.
The Committee is pleased to have our website www.
com investorrelations corp governance identied an excellent candidate, whose competencies match the prole of role and task required.
Paul Polman was nominated by the Committee for election as an Executive Director at Process for the appointment of Directors shareholders meetings held in October 2008.
He became Chief Unilever has formal procedures for evaluation of the Boards, the Executive officer with effect from 1 January 2009.
Board Committees and the individual Directors.
The results of the evaluations are provided to the Committee when it discusses the The Committee reviewed and agreed the terms of appointment of nominations for re-election as Directors.
the new Executive Directors in line with best practice.
Where a vacancy arises on the Boards, the Committee seeks the At the AGMs in May 2008, Kees van der Graaf and Ralph Kugler services of specialist recruitment rms and other external experts retired as Executive Directors.
to assist in nding individuals with the appropriate skills and expertise.
In June 2008 Professor Genevive Berger resigned as a NonExecutive Director, to take up the position of Chief Research & In nominating Directors, the Committee follows the agreed Board Development officer as a member of the Unilever Executive Prole of potential Non-Executive Directors, which takes into reporting to the Chief Executive officer.
account the roles of Non-Executive Directors set out in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the UK Combined Code on The Committee, along with the Boards, reviewed the diversity Corporate Governance.
Under the terms of the Governance of within the Group and agreed with management that gender Unilever the Boards should comprise a majority of Non-Executive diversity is an opportunity, especially at the higher levels where Directors and the prole provides that three of these have strong female representation is relatively small.
financial experience, and staff the Audit Committee.
To represent Unilevers areas of interest, the prole also indicates there should Following the appointment of an outside consultant to support be a strong representation from Developing and Emerging the 2006 evaluation process, internal reviews were undertaken markets as well as from Europe and North America.
Nonduring 2007 and 2008 in relation to the evaluation of the Boards, Executive Directors should be independent of Unilever and free the Chairman, the individual Directors and the Board Committees from any conicts of interest.
The prole looks at diversity in based on the completion of a questionnaire and interviews.
The terms of nationality, race, gender and relevant expertise and Committee has also carried out a self-assessment of its directs that, wherever possible, the Boards should reect performance.
David Simon Chairman of the Nomination Committee Michael Treschow Jeroen van der Veer Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 59
