indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions governance corporate Governance report IntroductIon The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved The Board of Vedanta Resources plc believes that high for its consideration to ensure that it is in a position to standards of corporate governance are critical to maintaining deliver its strategic objectives, monitor performance and investor confidence and the integrity of the Group.
maintain effective controls whilst delegating operational The Board also believes that its corporate governance management to the Executive Committee and the framework must reflect the changing nature of the businesses.
Such matters reserved to the Board include, Groups businesses.
but are not limited to, approving Group strategy and annual budgets, major capital expenditure, major acquisitions The objective of this report is to provide details of the and disposals.
Groups governance policies, processes and structures and its compliance with the principles of the Combined Code on There are five Board Committees: Executive, Remuneration, Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Audit, Nominations and Health, Safety and Environment.
Each has its own clearly defined terms of reference and reports directly to the Board.
Additional information on Statement of complIance wIth code provISIonS the Executive, Remuneration, Audit and Nominations With the exception of the following matters, the Company Committees is given later in this report and, in the case has throughout the year fully complied with the principles of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee, in the set out in Section 1 of the UK Financial Reporting Councils Sustainable Development Report on pages 62 to 73.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted in June 2006.
Board Balance and Independence The Board comprises the following members: First, as previously reported, the Executive Chairman, Mr Anil Agarwal, did not meet the independence criteria Mr AK Agarwal Executive Chairman on appointment because he was previously the Chief Mr N Agarwal Deputy Executive Chairman Executive of the Company and, through Volcan Investments Mr KK Kaura Chief Executive Ltd Volcan, he and his family have a controlling interest Mr N Chandra Non-executive Director and in the Company Code Provision A.
Senior Independent Director Mr A Mehta Non-executive Director As the founder of Vedanta, Mr Agarwal has built the Group Dr SK Tamotia Non-executive Director since its inception in 1976.
The Board considers that Mr ER Macdonald Non-executive Director Mr Agarwal has made a major contribution to the Companys phenomenal growth and development into a All four Non-executive Directors served throughout the FTSE 100 company and that he has been responsible for year ended 31 March 2008 and up to the date of this report.
leading the Group to strong profitability and cash flows.
There have been no new appointments to the Board during Mr Agarwals appointment in March 2005 as Executive the year.
Chairman allowed him to step back from operational management and focus on turning new opportunities into Brief biographies of all of the Directors are set out on value-creating projects, thereby extending the Groups page 74. exceptional growth pipeline into the future.
The Board is unanimously of the opinion that his continued involvement The Board considers that all of the Non-executive Directors in an executive capacity is vitally important to the success are independent of the Group as defined by Code Provision of the Group.
In making its assessment, the Board has considered the fact that Mr Mehta and Mr Macdonald have held Second, pursuant to the Relationship Agreement and as previous senior management positions within subsidiary disclosed at the time of listing, Volcan will be consulted on companies of HSBC Holdings plc which acted as the joint all appointments to the Board.
The Nominations global co-ordinator and book runner when the Company Committee therefore works collaboratively with Volcan listed in 2003.
At the time of their appointments, the Board over making appointments to the Board and, to this extent, considered that neither Mr Mehtas nor Mr Macdonalds the Board appointment process differs from that set out in previous employments included the provision of corporate Code Provision A.
4.1. finance services in London by the HSBC Group and thus they had no involvement with the Group prior to their the Board appointment and that the value of the business transacted role and reSponSIBIlItIeS of the Board between the Company and the HSBC Group was less than The role of the Board is to provide leadership to the Group 1.0% of the turnover of either organisation.
The Board in a manner which maximises opportunities to develop its therefore remains of the view that these circumstances portfolio of businesses profitably whilst assessing and will not affect the judgement exercised by either Mr Mehta managing the associated risks.
The Board assesses the or Mr MacDonald and therefore considers them to be strategic objectives of each business, monitors independent.
performance, ensures the availability of financial, management and other resources required to meet the objectives, sets Group standards of conduct and ensures that effective controls are in place to manage risk and that the interests of investors and other stakeholders are taken into consideration.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 77 Job: 10808 VED 08 middle AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions corporate Governance report CONTiNUED Mr Naresh Chandra is the Senior Independent Director SID.
His primary responsibilities are to lead discussions at meetings of the Non-executive Directors, provide an effective channel of communication between the Chairman and Non-executive Directors, ensure that the views of the Non-executive Directors are given due consideration and provide a point of contact for any shareholder who wishes to raise concerns which the normal channels of communication through the Chairman and Chief Executive have failed to resolve, or for which contact is inappropriate.
During the year, the Chairman held regular meetings with Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
Board meetInGS and attendance The Board met four times during the year in the ordinary course of business and maintains close dialogue between meetings.
Board committees are appointed to deal with the execution of specific projects requiring Board approval.
The Board is updated regularly by these committees on the development of these projects.
The terms of reference of Board committees are reviewed from time to time in order to enhance the decision-making process.
Each member of the Board receives information comparing the performance of each business and of the Group with the annual budget each quarter and is given sufficient briefing materials with the agenda in advance of each Board meeting to enable informed decisions to be made.
In addition to these formal processes, Directors are in regular communication with the senior executives.
The Chief Financial Officer, Mr DD Jalan, attends all Board meetings to represent the finance function and act as a conduit between the Board and the Executive Committee.
Directors attendance at Board and committee meetings during the year.
Health, Safety & Environment Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Committee 1 2 Director A B A B A B A B A B AK Agarwal 4 4 3 3 N Agarwal 4 4 KK Kaura 4 4 3 3 N Chandra 4 4 4 4 3 3 3 3 A Mehta 4 4 4 4 3 3 SK Tamotia 4 4 3 3 3 3 ER Macdonald 4 4 4 4 3 3 3 3 Notes: 1.
A Maximum number of meetings the Directors could have attended.
Only members of a Board committee are entitled to attend the relevant committee meetings, although other Directors may attend Board committees at the invitation of the relevant committee chairman.
There were no changes to the membership of the Board during the year.
The Board, chaired by Mr Anil Agarwal, has seven Directors comprising the Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and four independent Non-executive Directors.
The Non-executive Directors possess a range of experience and are of sufficiently high calibre to bring to bear independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance and resources that are vital to the success of the Group.
Based on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Board in its meeting on 21 March 2008 decided that Kuldip Kaura, Chief Executive Officer, will retire on 30 September 2008 and will be succeeded by Mahendra S Mehta, currently the Chief Executive of Hindustan Zinc Limited.
Mr Mehta joined Sterlite Industries India Limited in April 2000.
Prior to assuming his current role at Hindustan Zinc, he worked in the management team of Sterlites Copper business and as Head of Group Marketing.
During the past two years, Mr Mehta has made a significant contribution to the rapid growth of Hindustan Zinc.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Job: 10808 VED 08 middle AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions governance chaIrman and chIef executIve dIrectorS dealInGS In ShareS There is a clear division of the responsibilities between The Company has a policy based on the Model Code the running of the Board and executive responsibility for published in the Listing Rules, which covers dealings in running the business, so that no one person has unfettered securities and applies to Directors and senior powers of decision-making.
The Board has an established management.
A comprehensive insider list is maintained policy which sets out the key responsibilities of the and all participants are notified of close periods.
Executive Chairman and Chief Executive.
A clear separation is maintained between the responsibility of the Chairman InductIon and contInuInG profeSSIonal development and the Chief Executive, as detailed below: Appropriate induction is provided to all Directors on appointment to the Board and programmes of continuing Chairman professional development are arranged as required, taking Setting a vision for Vedanta, formulating its into consideration the individual qualifications and strategy and creating a growth pipeline of profitable experience of the Directors.
Directors undertake visits to business opportunities operations and have discussions with local management.
Providing leadership to the Board and ensuring its effectiveness All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Ensuring that there is effective communication Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for with shareholders ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
Facilitating the effective contribution of Non-executive Directors All Directors have access to the Companys professional Overseeing corporate governance arrangements advisers whom they can consult where they find it in compliance with the Code necessary in order to better discharge their responsibilities.
No Director took such professional advice during the year.
Chief Executive The Directors attend other update briefings in order to Developing the executive team familiarise themselves with new regulatory requirements.
Supporting the Executive Chairman in the delivery and implementation of strategy performance evaluatIon Optimising the Groups assets and management and During the year, the performance of the Board, its main allocation of resources committees and the individual Directors were formally and Supporting the Executive Chairman in effective rigorously evaluated under the leadership and direction of communication with various stakeholders the Chairman.
A questionnaire was circulated to Directors Creating and maintaining a sound control environment concerning their individual performance and that of the Board as a whole and its main committees.
Responses relatIonShIp aGreement were collated and summarised, open and frank Board At the time of listing, the Company and Volcan, the majority discussions held concerning the results and issues raised shareholder, entered into an agreement the Relationship were addressed.
Agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship between them.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement The evaluation process concluded that the Board as a is to ensure that the Group is able to carry on business whole and its main committees had functioned effectively independently of Volcan, the Agarwal family and their during the year and that the individuals had also performed associates.
Under the terms of the Relationship well, with each member making a significant contribution Agreement, the Board and Nominations Committee will at to the Company.
The mix of skills and experience on the all times consist of a majority of Directors who are Board was felt to be appropriate.
independent of Volcan and the Agarwal family, whilst the Remuneration and Audit Committees shall at all times As in previous years, the Non-executive Directors, led by comprise only Non-executive Directors.
Volcan is entitled the Senior Independent Director, considered as part of the to nominate for appointment as Director such number of evaluation process the performance of the Chairman and persons as is one less than the number of Directors who provided him with feedback.
are independent of Volcan, the Agarwal family and their associates.
The Board considers these to be adequate safeguards in that independent Non-executive Directors make up a majority of the Board and Vedantas ability to operate independently of Volcan is protected by the Relationship Agreement.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 79 Job: 10808 VED 08 middle AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions corporate Governance report CONTiNUED Board commItteeS The Companys articles require that at every AGM, executIve commIttee one-third of the Directors or, if their number is not three or The Executive Committee, comprising the Executive a multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third, shall Directors and the senior management within the Group retire from office.
The Directors to retire by rotation shall who head the Groups principal businesses and corporate be those who have been longest in office since appointment functions, meets on a monthly basis to consider the or re-appointment.
Accordingly, Mr N Agarwal and Mr operating performance of each of the principal Kaura must offer themselves for re-election, having been subsidiaries.
Mr Navin Agarwal chairs the Executive elected at the 2005 AGM following their appointment to the Committee.
The Boards role is to set the Companys values and Following the performance appraisal referred to above, standards, determine its strategic objectives and monitor the Board was satisfied that the performance of operational performance.
The Executive Committee Messrs Mehta, Tamotia, Kaura, Macdonald, Chandra and supports the Board in fulfilling this role and is essentially Navin Agarwal continues to be effective and that each one responsible for the operational performance of the Group of them continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
including: Accordingly, the Board recommends their re-election at 1.
Implementing and delivering the strategic plans the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Monitoring operational and financial performance: A copy of the Nomination Committees terms of reference 3.
Prioritising and allocating resources: is available on request from the Company Secretary.
Developing and reviewing objectives and budgets with subsidiary company boards to ensure that these fall remuneratIon commIttee within agreed targets and parameters set by the Board: The Remuneration Committee consists of Mr Chandra 5.
Approval of capital expenditure: and chairman, Mr Mehta and Mr Macdonald, all of whom are 6. Review of the Human Resources Policy and independent Non-executive Directors.
Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for setting the remuneration policy and remuneration nomInatIonS commIttee packages for the Executive Directors and for maintaining The Nominations Committee consists of Mr Anil Agarwal an awareness of the overall remuneration of the key chairman, Mr Chandra, Dr Tamotia and Mr Macdonald.
operational and financial heads within the Group the The Committee is responsible for succession planning for Senior Management Group.
the Board, making recommendations concerning candidates for appointment as Executive or Non-executive The Remuneration Report, which is presented on pages Directors of the Company.
The selection process will 83 to 89, sets out the remuneration policy and other generally involve benchmarking and interviews with a disclosures concerning the remuneration of the Executive selection of candidates, In addition, the Committee makes Directors.
The Remuneration Report will be submitted for recommendations concerning the structure, size and approval at the forthcoming AGM.
A copy of the Remuneration Committees terms of The Combined Code requires that all directors be reference is available on request from the Company re-elected at intervals of no more than three years and Secretary.
that Non-executive directors should be appointed for specific terms.
In November 2007, Mr Mehtas and Dr Tamotias audIt commIttee and audItorS contracts expired and were renewed for a further The Audit Committee consists of Mr Mehta chairman, period of two years.
Mr Macdonalds three-year contract Mr Chandra and Mr Macdonald, all of whom are independent was renewed in March 2008.
All three are therefore Non-executive Directors.
The Board considers that required to stand for re-election in terms of the Mr Mehta has the relevant financial experience by virtue of Companys articles: his previous full time role at HSBC Bank and through his 2.
Mr Chandra, who is engaged on a contract renewable experience on the audit committees of other international every 12 months, was re-appointed in June 2007 and companies.
Mr Chandra, who chaired the Government of will again stand for re-election this year.
Indias Committee on Corporate Governance, has a deep understanding of corporate governance issues in general and of the Indian environment in particular.
During his career, Mr Macdonald has held senior positions in banking and financial services companies.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Job: 10808 VED 08 middle AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions governance audItor Independence The activities of the Audit Committee are summarised The Audit Committee and the Board place great emphasis below.
In addition, the Groups main subsidiaries, a number on the objectivity of the Groups auditor, Deloitte & Touche of which are listed on stock exchanges in India, have their LLP Deloitte, in their reporting to shareholders.
The own audit committees in accordance with local corporate audit partner and senior manager are present at Audit governance requirements.
By monitoring their discussions Committee meetings to ensure full communication of and findings, the Audit Committee gains further insights matters relating to the audit.
The overall performance of into the quality of financial reporting and internal control.
the auditor is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and The Audit Committee reviews the Groups arrangement for feedback is provided to senior members of Deloitte its employees to raise concerns through whistleblowing unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of policy in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial Deloittes own system of quality control.
The Audit reporting or other matters.
The Committee ensures that Committee also has discussions with the auditor, without these arrangements allow proportionate and independent management being present, on the adequacy of controls investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up and on any judgmental areas.
The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by the Audit During the year, the Audit Committees activities included: Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Audit formally reviewing the Companys draft preliminary Committee after discussions between the businesses and announcement, the Annual Report and half-year report: Deloitte and are then referred to the Board for approval.
reviewing the Companys risk matrix: considering accounting issues and related disclosures Rotation of the audit partners responsibilities within in relation to the disposal of Sterlite Gold and the Deloitte is required by their professions ethical standards.
acquisition of Sesa Goa and integration of Sesa Goas There is also rotation of key members within the audit accounting processes into the Groups reporting team.
Accordingly, the current signing partner of the firm framework: is being rotated from next year.
in consultation with the external auditor, determining the most appropriate accounting treatment of Sterlites The Committee has a policy for the provision of non-audit US ADR listing: services by the auditors.
Under this policy, the Audit reviewing the internal audit reports of the Company: Committee has agreed a scope of services which the approving the internal audit plan for 200809, which external auditors are permitted to deliver to the Group.
The includes the review of Management Assurance Service policy also specifies which services are prohibited in order function: to safeguard the ongoing independence of the external review fraud or misappropriation cases if any: auditors.
An analysis of the non-audit fees can be found in evaluating the performance and effectiveness of the note 8 to the financial statements.
This was done using a detailed questionnaire, the results of which have been Other than audit, the Chief Financial Officer is required to considered by the Committee and which formed the give prior approval of work carried out by Deloitte and its basis of the Committees recommendation to the Board associates in excess of a predetermined threshold.
Part of to recommend the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche this review is to determine that other potential providers of LLP as the Companys auditors for the year ending the services have been adequately considered.
These 31 March 2009: controls provide the Audit Committee with confidence in reviewing the external audit engagement, scope and the independence of Deloitte in their reporting on the audit strategy: and of the Group.
review of the Groups whistleblowing policy and regular update on the Groups preparation for future SarbanesfInancIal reportInG SyStemS Oxley compliance requirements.
The Group has a comprehensive financial reporting system, which is reviewed and modified as circumstances A copy of the Audit Committees terms of reference is require.
Procedures include: preparing operational available on request from the Company Secretary.
budgets for the forthcoming year for review and approval by the Board: preparing budgets and forecasts using conservative and consistent assumptions, which are continuously reviewed: monitoring performance against key performance indicators throughout the financial year and updating forecasts with reference to information on key risk areas.
In addition, monthly management reports are prepared both on a divisional and consolidated basis.
These are presented to the Executive Committee.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 81 Job: 10808 VED 08 middle AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions corporate Governance report CONTiNUED Internal control and rISk manaGement This process is designed to manage rather than eliminate The Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the risk of failing to achieve the Groups business the Group maintains a robust system of internal control to objectives.
As such, the process can only provide provide them with reasonable assurance that all reasonable rather than absolute assurance against information used within the business and for external material misstatement or loss.
This includes financial, operational and compliance control and risk management, to ensure relatIonS wIth ShareholderS that shareholders interests and the Companys assets are dIaloGue wIth InStItutIonal ShareholderS safeguarded.
In line with best practice, the Board has The Board recognises that meetings with analysts and reviewed the internal control system in place during the shareholders constitute an important element of the year and up to the date of the approval of this report.
This Companys investor relations programme.
A number of review ensures that the internal control system remains meetings were held with the Companys principal effective.
Where weaknesses are identified as a result of institutional shareholders during the year as well as with the review, new procedures are put in place to strengthen financial analysts and brokers, including a successful visit controls and these are in turn reviewed at regular by a group of analysts to the Groups operations in India intervals.
During the course of its review of the system of and Zambia.
These meetings are initiated either by the internal control, the Board has not identified nor been Company or analysts and investors and are managed at advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has Group level through Mr Sumanth Cidambi, Associate determined to be significant.
Director Investor Relations, who also briefs the Board on the Companys relationships with its shareholders.
The The Groups internal audit activity is managed through the main channels of communication with the investment Management Assurance Services MAS function and is community are through the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, an important element of the overall process by which the Chief Executive Officer and Associate Director of Investor Board obtains the assurance it requires to ensure that Relations.
The Senior Independent Director and Nonrisks are properly identified, evaluated and managed.
This executive Directors are also available as appropriate.
process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of signing of this report.
It also provides The Group attends investor seminars which provide assurance on the effectiveness of relevant internal opportunities for two-way communication with investors controls.
The scope of work, authority and resources of and analysts and feedback is provided to the Board.
MAS are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and its work is supported by the services of leading international The Company announces its annual and half-year results accountancy firms but specifically not including the to the London Stock Exchange and the press in advance Groups external auditors.
The Audit Committee has, of the publication of the annual and half-year reports.
during the year, reviewed the level of internal audit Summary reports are also published for the first and third resources within the Group and believes that it is quarters.
Other price-sensitive information is announced appropriate to the Groups size.
as and when appropriate and the Board has adopted a communications policy to ensure that this is done in a Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has in place timely and considered manner.
Presentations are made to procedures to ensure that sufficient internal controls are analysts and the press by the Chairman, Deputy Chairman maintained.
These procedures include a monthly meeting and Chief Executive Officer and CFO following the release of the relevant management committee and a quarterly of the interim and preliminary announcements.
meeting of the audit committee of that subsidiary.
These committees are appointed by the board of directors of each The half-year and annual reports are the primary means of relevant subsidiary and the minutes of their proceedings communicating with all shareholders.
Financial reports, are reviewed by the Company Secretary.
Any adverse press releases and other information about Vedanta are findings are reported to the Audit Committee.
available on the website www.
The responsibilities of MAS include recommending conStructIve uSe of the annual General meetInG improvements in the control environment and ensuring This years AGM will be held on 31 July 2008 at 3.00pm, compliance with the Groups procedures and policies.
at the Institution of Civil Engineers, One Great George Street, Westminster, London SW1P 3AA.
The Notice of The planning of internal audit is approached from a risk Meeting will be circulated at least 20 working days perspective.
For internal audit purposes, the Group is before the meeting.
Shareholders will be given the divided into three auditable groupings, namely: opportunity to ask questions at the AGM.
The Company will manufacturing operating entities, special projects and announce the numbers of proxy votes cast for, against or other entities.
In preparing an internal audit plan, abstaining for each resolution and will make the chairmen reference is made to the Groups risk matrix, inputs are of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees sought from senior management and project managers available to answer questions from shareholders.
and audit committee members and reference is made to past audit experience and financial analysis.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
