Leading Gas Production in the Southern North Sea Dramatic growth in Ventures gas business means that gas now represents 65% of production: the result of a strong track record of field development over the last four years added to several significant successes in 2008.
From three fields and one export route in 2004, Venture now has ten Venture is well positioned to take advantage of these positive growth factors.
producing fields, two exporting routes, two production hubs and 17 Existing assets will again contribute the majority of production, supplemented development opportunities.
Production is up almost five fold from 37 with a full year contribution from Stamford as well as the Eris and Ceres MMscfpd to 180 MMscfpd, underpinned by 661 Bcf of 2P reserves and development later in 2009.
Our success in the 2008 25th Licensing Round up to 1,131 Bcf of 3P reserves at the end of 2008, with further substantial has provided us with an additional nine SNS gas licences to be explored over exploration opportunities.
the next few years: including four which contain wells where gas has already been discovered.
The currently producing fields are grouped into two hubs A Fields and the Greater Markham Area GMA, which maximise existing infrastructure and With high levels of development and drilling activity set to continue in 2009, exploit Ventures detailed technical knowledge of the SNS.
Today, Venture gas remains a key element in Ventures growth strategy.
is one of the largest and most active players in the region and produces Source Lambert Energy Associates.
enough gas to power over one million homes.
Looking forward, the demand for gas in the UK is set to continue growing to meet both domestic and commercial needs, despite the economic slowdown.
Although short term price volatility is expected, medium term forecasts show a robust upward curve in prices.
Household numbers are steadily increasing and market conditions will favour gas fired power generators with a lower carbon footprint to meet emissions targets.
The UK is already a net importer of gas and import dependency is set to increase from 30% today to 60% in 2015, making security of supply a key driver for domestic production.
Our reserves 65% 35% Gas Oil underpin our Leading Gas Production in the Southern North Sea Dramatic growth in Ventures gas business means that gas now represents 65% of production: the result of a strong track record of field development over the last four future in uncert ain times years added to several significant successes in 2008.
Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 Leading Gas Production in the Southern North Sea Dramatic growth in Ventures gas business means that gas now represents 65% of production: the result of a strong track record of field development over the last four years added to several significant successes in 2008.
Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 Business and Finance Review Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Outlook Mike Wagstaff 1 Mike Wagstaff 47 Chief Executive 5 John Morgan 64 Chairman Overall, during 2008 Venture made excellent progress in a challenging Chief Executive Member of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee and member of the operating environment and difficult global economic conditions with the Mike Wagstaff took over as Chief Executive in September 2004, having Remuneration Committee Group benefiting from record cash flow from production operations and joined Venture as Finance Director in June 1999, and he was appointed John Morgan was appointed a Director of Venture on 7 September 1998. a strong balance sheet.
He began his career with Shell as He worked for BP for over 30 years and held senior positions in that company a Petroleum Engineer based in various locations in Western Europe.
including Head of South East Asia Exploration Office, North Sea Commercial While global oil prices fell significantly during the second half of 2008, From 1988 to 1999, he was employed by Schroders in its Corporate Manager, General Manager North Sea Operations and President BP the majority of Ventures production was gas, thereby lessening the Finance department, based in London and New York, where he Exploration Alaska.
He is also a Director of John Wood Group PLC.
impact of oil prices on Ventures financial performance.
While UK gas provided corporate finance advice to a wide range of energy prices have weakened recently and we anticipate short term volatility, 6 Mark Nicholls 59 Independent companies including Venture.
the longer term fundamentals and overall outlook for gas pricing remains Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, Chairman favourable.
In addition, we already have commodity price hedging in 2 Jon Murphy 53 Chief Operating Officer of the Audit Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee place which will protect a significant proportion of our production Jon Murphy joined Venture in March 1999 and was appointed a Director and Nomination Committee during 2009 and 2010. on 16 August 1999.
He is a geologist by profession and, prior to joining Mark Nicholls was appointed a Director of Venture on 15 January 2004.
Venture, he spent over ten years with LASMO.
His positions within LASMO Having qualified as a Solicitor, he spent most of his career with SG Ventures balance sheet remains strong, with cash and cash equivalents included Chief Geologist in Indonesia and New Business Manager in Warburg, becoming Head of Corporate Finance and a main board of approximately 200 million at year end and a fully committed Pakistan.
Prior to joining LASMO, he served in several senior technical Director of the SG Warburg Group.
More recently his broad knowledge 365.0 million syndicated corporate bank facility which is as yet undrawn, Peter Turner positions for Conoco, Texas Eastern and Thomson North Sea.
of the financial market place was applied at the Royal Bank of Scotland apart from letters of credit.
Finance Director Group where he was Managing Director of the private equity group.
3 Peter Turner 38 Finance Director Currently he is Non-Executive Chairman of EcoSecurities Group plc Our 2009 capital expenditure programme, excluding acquisitions, Peter Turner was appointed to the Board on 6 December 2007 as Finance and a Non-Executive Director of Nationwide Building Society, Northern is expected to total approximately 300 million and, based on the Director.
He was previously at The BOC Group plc, prior to its acquisition Investors Company plc and Evolution Group plc.
current commodity price outlook, is anticipated to be predominately by Linde AG, where he held a number of senior financial positions funded out of operating cash flow.
including Director of Taxation and Treasury and Finance Director of the 7 Alan Jones 64 Independent Groups largest division, Industrial and Special Products.
Peter qualified Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, member of the Audit 2009 has started well and we are seeing the impact of our 2008 as a Chartered Accountant whilst working at  Committee and Nomination Committee development projects and the continuing strong underlying performance and has a degree in chemistry from Oxford University.
Alan Jones was appointed a Director of Venture on 28 April 2005. of our core fields.
During 2009, we also anticipate additional production In his 35 year career with BP he gained extensive experience, both contributions from the second Chestnut production well and the Eris and 4 Rod Begbie 42 Corporate Development Director internationally and in the North Sea in major oil field developments Ceres gas fields.
As a result, in aggregate we expect modest production Rod Begbie joined Venture in August 2002 and was appointed a Director and in operational management.
He was responsible for managing growth in 2009 over 2008 levels.
He has 17 years experience in corporate finance and the successful $6 billion development of BPs Cuisiana and Cupiagua private equity and spent the early part of his career as a management fields in Colombia.
Alan retired from BP in 2000 after three years as The Board is mindful of the very challenging and volatile external consultant, before moving into a Group Corporate Strategy role at the regional President of BP in Scotland, during which time he was a economic conditions and remains focused on preserving flexibility Royal Bank of Scotland.
Latterly he was a Director of ING Barings panmember of the Government task force examining the future of the to respond as external circumstances change.
However, as a result European private equity business, a position that followed four years UK oil and gas industry.
of the strong operating performance of our business, combined with Jon Murphy of successful investing as an Assistant Director within the private equity our financial position, the Board remains confident of the outlook for Chief Operating Officer arm of RBS.
Having spent his early life in Aberdeen, he returned in 2002, Ventures business in 2009 and beyond.
after completing an MBA at INSEAD.
Mike Wagstaff Chief Executive Peter Turner Finance Director Jon Murphy Chief Operating Officer Rod Begbie Corporate Development Director 16 March 2009 The Rod Begbie Corporate Development Director business 5 6 1 2 5 6 world faces 3 4 7 36 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33 Governance 8 Tom Ehret 57 Independent 10 Andrew Carr-Locke 55 Independent Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee Tom Ehret was appointed a Director of Venture on 16 March 2006.
Andrew Carr-Locke was appointed a Director of Venture on 3 March He trained as a mechanical engineer and in his 33 year career has held 2008.
He was Finance Director of George Wimpey PLC for six years a variety of both technical and commercial positions in several leading until June 2007 when the Company merged with Taylor Woodrow.
offshore engineering and construction companies.
During this period A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Cost and Management Accountants, he has been instrumental in several industry shaping moves, including Andrew has extensive experience of working at a senior level in a number the turnaround of the loss-making Stena Offshore, its acquisition of of high profile roles.
Before joining George Wimpey he was Group Finance Santa Fes pipelay business and the merger between Stena Offshore and Director of Courtaulds Textiles plc, prior to which he was European Finance Coflexip, the leading company at that time in the subsea sector.
Following Director at United Distillers and Vintners.
Andrew was also a Non-Executive his success as Chief Executive Officer of Stena Offshore subsequently Director of the utility company AWG plc from 2003 until it was successfully Coflexip-Stena Offshore, CSO, Tom became Group Vice-Chairman sold and delisted in 2007.
He joined the Board of Royal Mail Holdings Plc and President of the offshore branch of Technip following its acquisition with effect from 1 September 2008. of CSO.
He was latterly the Chief Executive Officer of Acergy SA, a leading 11 Larry Kinch 55 offshore contractor to the oil and gas industry, from March 2003 until his Larry Kinch is a founder of Venture and was appointed a Director on retirement in April 2008.
He continued as an Executive Board Member 1 November 1996.
He is a Petroleum Engineer by profession and his until 30 June 2008, at which time he became a Non-Executive Director.
previous experience was with Schlumberger, Shell and BP as an Engineer.
Tom is also a Director of Dockwise Ltd, listed in Oslo, and in May 2008 In 1985, Larry co-founded Petroleum Engineering Services, an Aberdeen was appointed to the Supervisory Board of SBM Offshore N. V. a Dutch based oilfield equipment and services company, which was acquired public company.
by Halliburton Company in February 2000.
He also established Energy 9 Tom Blades 52 Independent Development Partners, of which he is Chairman.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Tom Blades was appointed a Director of Venture on 16 March 2006.
12 Robb Turner 46 Robb Turner was appointed a Director of Venture on 12 September 2007.
A qualified Chartered Electrical Engineer, he spent most of his formative He is a co-founder of ArcLight Capital Partners and has 19 years of energy years with Schlumberger, the majority of these in managerial positions finance, corporate finance, and public and private equity investment worldwide.
Since then he has led Numar Corporation through its rapid experience.
Prior to forming ArcLight in 2000, Robb founded and built post-IPO growth, and following its acquisition, briefly became Executive Berenson Minella & Companys energy advisory practice.
From 1990 to Vice-President of Halliburton.
As President and Chief Executive Officer 1998, he held senior positions at Smith Barney, Schroders, Wasserstein of Spectro, a specialised manufacturer in the global analytical instruments Perella and Kidder, and Peabody & Co. where he was responsible industry, he restructured the company and implemented a programme for advising on buyouts, corporate finance structures, and mergers of fundamental change.
Tom was the Chief Executive Officer of Choren and acquisitions.
Robb earned a Bachelor of Science in Engineering Industries, a German technology company, which he transformed to from the US Military Academy at West Point and a Master of Business become the world leader in the conversion of biomass to synthetic Administration from Harvard Business School.
transport fuels for five years until 31 December 2008.
He was appointed as CEO of Siemens Energy Sectors Oil and Gas Division on 1 January 13 Graeme Sword 40 2009.
He is also a Director of Twister B. V. Graeme Sword was appointed a Director of Venture on 24 October 2007 and is a Partner with 3i as well as Head of 3is Oil, Gas & Power business unit.
He started his career in brand management with Unilever before joining 3i in 1995.
Graeme was appointed a Partner with 3i in 2001 and took up his current position in 2002.
In his career he has led a number of high profile transactions in the exploration and production and oil service sectors including Petrofac, Vetco, Dockwise and Delta Hydrocarbons.
Graeme also serves on the Boards of Energy Development Partners and Delta Hydrocarbons.
Graeme holds an MA from the University of Dundee.
8 9 10 9 10 11 11 12 13 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited accounts of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Principal Activities The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings is oil and gas production.
Its specific focus is on the exploitation of discovered but undeveloped fields, known as stranded reserves, through the application of modern technology and oilfield operating practices.
Business Review In accordance with section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and in line with guidance provided by the Accounting Standards Board, a review of the development and performance of the business of the Group including the financial performance during the year, an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, key performance indicators, a description of principal risks and uncertainties and forward looking statements can be found in the following sections of this report: Chairmans Statement on page 10.
Key Performance Indicators on page 4.
The Business and Finance Review which incorporates the Finance Review, Principal Risks and Uncertainties, and Corporate and Social Responsibility on pages 11 to 33.
Corporate Governance Report on pages 41 to 47.
The information in all of these sections, which fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Results and Dividend The Groups profit for the year ended 31 December 2008 amounted to 76.7 million 2007: 48.2 million, which will be transferred to reserves.
The Directors have proposed an ordinary final dividend of 13.0 pence per share 2007: 12.0 pence to be paid on 28 May 2009 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 24 April 2009.
Dividends have been waived on the holdings of Venture Production Employee Benefit Trust the Trust.
Dividend Policy In utilising free cash flow generated by the business, the Board has determined the following priorities: firstly, re-investment back into its business through acquisitions or other internally generated investment opportunities: second, management of the Companys outstanding debt to sustainable long term levels and third, the return of capital to shareholders that is surplus to anticipated near term investment requirements.
This will be achieved through dividends or other capital return mechanisms.
This flexible policy will continue, allowing Venture to manage the purchase of acquisitions, which are an important but unpredictable part of Ventures growth.
Charitable and Political Donations During the year, the Group made charitable donations amounting to 18,419 2007: 18,162.
A Social Investment Policy has been approved by the Board and is based around our employees links in the local communities.
The Group operates an informal Employee Matched Funding Scheme within pre-determined social and financial criteria.
Further details of the Companys activities in this area are set out on page 31 of the Business and Finance Review.
No political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred during the year.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Group and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
At 31 December 2008, the Group had an average of 39 days purchases outstanding 2007: 40 days.
Directors The current Directors of the Company and their biographical details are contained on pages 36 and 37, and their interests, including share options in the Companys share capital, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 55.
On 3 March 2008, Andrew Carr-Locke joined the Board as an additional independent Non-Executive Director.
On 12 March 2009, it was announced that Jon Murphy would be stepping down from his role as Chief Operating Officer with effect from 14 May 2009.
He will be replaced by Jonathan Roger who is currently General Manager Producing Assets.
Jon Murphy is the Companys longest serving employee, having joined the Company in March 1999, and has made a very important contribution to Ventures development and success over this period, and he will remain employed until 31 December 2009.
The Companys Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors must submit themselves for re-election each year by rotation.
Additionally, newly appointed Directors will submit themselves for election at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
However, the Board has initiated a policy over the past few years of requiring all the Directors to retire by rotation on an annual basis.
38 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Governance No Director was or is materially interested in any contract which was significant in relation to the Groups business, other than his service contract, where appropriate, during or at the end of the period.
Details of service contracts are set out on page 53.
During the year, the Company maintained insurance for its Directors and Officers and details of Directors indemnities and insurance are explained below.
An evaluation has been carried out of each Directors performance during the year and it has been concluded that each Director continues to be effective and demonstrates a strong commitment to the role.
Further details of the evaluation process are provided on pages 44 to 45.
The Companies Audit Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 came into force in April 2005 and amended the provisions of section 310 of the Companies Act 1985 to give companies the power to extend indemnities to Directors against liability to third parties, excluding criminal and regulatory penalties, and to pay Directors legal costs as they are incurred.
If judgement is given against a Director, or if the individual is convicted, the Director is liable to reimburse the Company in relation to the legal costs received.
In June 2007, the Company obtained shareholder approval at its AGM to amend the Articles of Association to give it authority to provide funding for Directors defence costs.
Letters of indemnification have been issued to all Directors and will be issued to new Directors to provide an indemnity to the extent permitted by legislation.
The Company also maintains Directors and Officers insurance cover in respect of any legal action taken against the Directors in connection with their duties.
Substantial Shareholdings The disclosure of certain major interests in the share capital of the Company is governed by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR made by the UK Financial Services Authority.
As at 10 March 2009, we have received notification under DTR 5 that the following hold 3% or more of the voting rights of the issued share capital of the Company: % Schroders Investment Management 11.63 Aberdeen Asset Management plc 11.46 LW Kinch 7.38 ArcLight Capital Partners, LLC 5.42 3i Group plc 5.41 Legal & General Group Plc 4.34 Larry Kinchs holding includes 2.96% of the Companys ordinary shares held by IFG Trust Jersey Limited as trustee of the Larry Kinch Life Interest Trust.
Share Capital The share capital and the changes during the year are described in Note 23 on page 86.
Corporate Governance Statements The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and full details of compliance with the Combined Code are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 41 to 47.
Annual General Meeting AGM The Companys AGM will be held on 14 May 2009 at The Marcliffe Hotel and Spa, North Deeside Road, Pitfodels, Aberdeen AB15 9YA, and the Notice of Meeting has been circulated separately to shareholders with this report.
Authority to Purchase Shares The authority given at last years AGM, held on 14 May 2008, for the Company to purchase in the market up to 14,322,178 of its ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital, expires on 14 May 2009.
Shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority at the AGM in 2009.
No shares have been purchased under the authority granted at the AGM in 2008.
Employee Benefit Trust EBT During the year, the EBT purchased 988,166 ordinary shares in the market.
The shares held by the EBT are used to satisfy share-based incentive compensation schemes for management and employees, together with the issue of additional new shares, as appropriate.
Employees and Employment Practices Employees are encouraged to become involved in the Groups operating performance and in all matters that affect them.
Regular performance updates are provided by the Executive team and also on employment related matters such as appraisal training, stress counselling workshops and winter driver training.
A significant proportion of the employee bonus arrangements are linked to overall Group performance and employee involvement in key targets is encouraged through appropriate incentive schemes.
Employees are also actively encouraged to participate in the Companys Share Incentive Plan SIP, which all UK based employees are eligible to join after six months service.
As at the year end, 99% of those employees eligible to join were members of the SIP.
Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39
