st 1 Business and Finance Review Continued Oil and Gas Reserves The following table shows estimates of proven and probable reserves prepared by the Companys engineers in accordance with the UK Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Oil Industry Accounting Committee July 2001.
For total reserves, natural gas is converted to barrels of oil equivalent using a conversion factor of six thousand cubic feet of natural gas per barrel.
Venture First Venture was the first to commission the use of a cylindrical production vessel in the North Sea.
Sevans Hummingbird vessel is in use in the Chestnut field.
28 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business and Finance Review Reserves Movements Corporate and Social Responsibility On the basis of UK SORP, Ventures total net proven and probable Ventures aim is to cause no harm to people or the environment.
We reserves at the end of 2008 were 214.0 MMboe, an increase of 5.4% consider HSE management as an integral part of our business and our compared to the end of year 2007. duty as a corporate citizen.
We believe that the discipline needed and the motivation that inevitably results from achieving and maintaining high HSE Ventures net reserves additions and revisions during 2008 included standards will contribute directly to the commercial success of the Company.
7.0 MMboe relating to the drilling and testing of the Ceres field that proved economic gas reserves, as well as the acquisition of 19.5 MMboe Our Approach relating to the purchase of interests in five fields in the UK and Dutch Venture views Corporate Responsibility CR as being about balancing sectors of the SNS.
Additional positive reserves revisions reflect improved its own competitive interests against the voluntary actions it chooses performance from the Goosander oil field and the Chiswick, Annabel and to take over and above compliance with minimum legal requirements Saturn gas fields, as well as the recent development well drilled on the to manage its operations.
We believe that these voluntary actions must Chestnut oil field.
Minor downward revisions during 2008 occurred as a address the expectations of our key stakeholders, as well as being for our consequence of field performance in the Birch oil field and Audrey gas mutual benefit, and be for the longer term.
We also believe CR is about field as well as the work over on an Ann field gas well.
Venture continues creating opportunities through alliances to build a sustainable Company to report its equity-accounted reserves holding in TDNEL which this year and about taking a structured, business approach to build trust with accounts for 5.1 MMboe of proven and probable reserves.
stakeholders whilst accepting responsibility for our critical impacts.
Ventures total resource base, including possible reserves, contingent and Ventures business model is to acquire, develop and produce from unrisked prospective resources, amounts to 669.0 MMboe.
This has made Venture a successful oil and gas production business.
The business is fast growing and has created jobs, Reserves Assessment and Reporting returned profits to shareholders and through employment, expenditure in the community and taxation contributed to the economic health of the The Companys technical staff are highly skilled with average industry experience of over 15 years.
The Company relies primarily on its internal nation.
We invest for the long term and recognise the need to extract oil and gas in the safest and most environmentally responsible and efficient technical expertise, augmented by third party engineers, to ensure objective estimates of the Companys reserves.
We also recognise that there are a variety of perspectives existing with regard to our industry and we encourage regular engagement with the risks associated with reserve estimation through the adherence to a Company wide reserves policy and procedure that outlines the process a broad range of stakeholders, and we proactively engage with those we consider to be key.
transparently from technical staff to senior management.
One of the main constituents of the procedure is that 100% of the Companys total Our approach to our corporate responsibilities therefore reflects our reserves are reviewed annually.
business objectives and our culture direct, disciplined and commercially focused.
We recognise that we have an impact on our environment, on In addition to the reserves estimation carried out by the Companys engineers, an independent engineer conducts a report on the proven the working lives of our people and on our local communities.
Equally important is the way in which we conduct our business, and this has and probable reserves annually.
In 2008, Venture engaged DeGolyer and MacNaughton to undertake an estimation of the total resource a direct impact on our reputation and our licence to operate.
base of the Company, including contingent and prospective resources, Venture works closely with other members of its industry to build a in accordance with the 2007 SPE WPC AAPG SPEE Petroleum pragmatic legislative framework.
Jon Murphy is a Board member of Management System SPE PRMS.
The results of this analysis showed Oil & Gas UK, the organisation that represents the UK offshore oil and that on a proven plus probable basis, the volumes determined by gas industry to government and regulatory bodies.
The role of Chief DeGolyer and MacNaughton were within 3% of those determined by Operating Officer is the Venture Board Director with Health, Safety and Ventures engineers.
In total, DeGolyer and MacNaughton estimate Environmental responsibility.
Ventures net total reserves and resource base unrisked to be 751.0 MMboe.
We believe that being a responsible operator should be one of our core objectives and that we should look to implement initiatives and Venture has separately engaged RPS Energy in 2008 to provide an programmes to improve our positive impacts, not just minimise any independent third party review of the Companys procedures and negative impacts.
Through the business risk process we believe we methods for reserves estimation.
The purpose of the review was to are currently managing our major CR exposures.
What we have not verify that the reserves estimates prepared by the Companys technical done is to fully identify and assess the complete range of CR risks and staff are in accordance with the guidelines and definitions of the SPE opportunities we face.
PRMS reserves classification March 2007 using accepted engineering principles.
A variety of assets in various stages of development were Our aim is therefore to complete a full CR risk assessment in the first half evaluated and RPS Energy confirmed that the procedures and methods of 2009.
We will then progressively manage the full range of CR risks and utilised by the Companys technical staff were appropriate and met the opportunities in a manner and timescale that is aligned with the overall SPE PRMS guidelines.
business strategy, and in a way that reflects the continuing growth in the Company and the expectations of stakeholders whilst gaining tangible, business benefits.
Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29
