OUR ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.4 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION 3.6 FOREIGN CURRENCIES CONTINUED The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the c Net investment in foreign operations Company its subsidiaries.
Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entitys net investment in a foreign operation entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included are recognised in the income statement in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the foreign operation in the Group Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
In the consolidated Group financial statements such exchange differences are initially recognised in Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line translation reserves as a separate component of equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement on disposal of with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis.
All intra-Group the net investment.
transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups interest therein.
3.7 REVENUE RECOGNITION Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest customers, after deducting sales allowances and value-added taxes.
Revenue is recognised when the risk of loss transfers to the in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding customer, depending on individual customer terms at the time of despatch, delivery or upon formal customer acceptance.
obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
3.5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 3.8 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type.
aggregate of the fair values, at the date of acquisition, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The a Defined contribution pension plans acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, Business Contributions to the Groups defined contribution plans are recognised as employee benefits expense when they fall due.
Combinations, are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that they result in either a cash refund or a reduction in future are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which payments.
Outstanding contributions are recognised as a liability within accruals.
are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net b Defined benefit pension plans fair value of the recognised identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is recognised as an asset and initially measured The net surplus or net liability recognised in the balance sheet for the Groups defined benefit pension plans is the present at cost.
If the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, less the fair the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group took advantage value of the plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit of the exemption under IFRS 1, First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, not to restate all business method and by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on high quality corporate bonds that have combinations prior to 1 January 2005 in line with the requirements of IFRS 3. terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Any asset recognised in respect of a surplus arising from this calculation is limited to the sum of unrecognised past service costs plus the present value of available refunds and 3.6 FOREIGN CURRENCIES reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the Pension expense for the Groups defined benefit plans is recognised as follows: results and financial position of each entity are translated into pounds sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
i Within trading profit: Current service cost representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the current year: and a Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency Past service cost representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates resulting from employee service in prior periods that arises from changes made to the benefits of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each subsequent balance sheet date: under the plans in the current year.
To the extent that the changes to benefits vest immediately, i Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences past service costs are recognised immediately, otherwise they are recognised on a straight-line arising on the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the income statement: basis over the vesting period.
ii Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated: and ii Within finance costs: Interest cost on the liabilities of the plans calculated by reference to the plan liabilities and discount iii Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the income rate at the beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year.
statement except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses iii Within finance income: Expected return on the assets of the plans calculated by reference to the plan assets and longare recognised directly in equity, in which case any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in term expected rate of return at the beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year.
iv Within the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense: Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the plans.
b Translation from functional currency to presentation currency v Gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments are recognised in the income statement in the same line as the When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Groups presentational currency pounds sterling, its item that gave rise to the settlement or curtailment is recognised or, if material, separately reported as a component of results and financial position are translated into the presentational currency as follows: profit from operations.
i Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date: ii Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such an average rate does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used: and iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity and are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of.
Cookson Group plc 60 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 61 Annual Report 2008 OUR ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.8 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED 3.12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT c Share-based payments Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at The Group operates a number of different share-based payment arrangements for its employees of both the equity-settled cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent costs are capitalised only when it is and cash-settled type.
probable that they will result in future economic benefits flowing to the Group and when they can be measured reliably.
All other Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
date of grant takes account of the effect of market-based conditions, such as the Total Shareholder Return TSR, and is Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life.
Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense when the asset is available for use and is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost less recognised is adjusted for the best estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest and for the effect of other non residual value of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows: market-based vesting conditions, such as growth in headline earnings per share, which are not included in the fair value Asset category Estimated useful life determined at the date of grant.
For grants with market-based conditions attaching to them, fair value is measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model.
For consistency, this method has also been used to value executive share options Freehold property Between 10 and 50 years and stock appreciation rights granted to executives whose options are not subject to the additional market-based Leasehold property The term of the lease performance conditions.
For all other grants, fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes model.
Plant and machinery motor vehicles Between 1 and 5 years For cash-settled share-based payments, the fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense information technology equipment Between 1 and 5 years with a corresponding increase in liabilities.
The fair value of the amount payable is initially measured at grant date using a other Between 5 and 15 years form of stochastic option pricing model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at value of the liability are recognised in the income statement.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to 3.9 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, as described in note 3.15.
Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Gains and losses arising on disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in Expenditure on development activities is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the the income statement.
Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
All other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less 3.13 GOODWILL accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or associate represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or associate recognised 3.10 BORROWING COSTS at the date of acquisition.
Borrowing costs, comprising interest on bank loans and overdrafts, finance lease obligations, the unwinding of the discount on Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment provisions and the costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings, are recognised in the income statement losses.
Impairment testing is carried out annually, as described in notes 3.15, 5.2 and 23.
On disposal of a subsidiary or an using the effective interest rate method.
associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
3.11 TAXATION 3.14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS OTHER THAN GOODWILL The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Intangible assets other than goodwill are recognised on business combinations if they are separable, or if they arise from Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably.
They are amortised over their estimated useful statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes lives, as follows: items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Asset category Estimated useful life Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements Customer relationships 20 years and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability Trade names 20 years method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences Intellectual property rights 10 years can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial Other Between 5 and 10 years recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the associated deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Cookson Group plc 62 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 63 Annual Report 2008 OUR ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.15 IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 3.18 NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its Non-current assets or a collection of assets and liabilities in a disposal group are separately classified as held for sale in the recoverable amount.
balance sheet when their carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of i its fair value less costs to sell and ii its value use.
in use, which is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or cash-generating unit, Immediately prior to being classified as held for sale the measurement of the assets and all assets and liabilities in a disposal discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks group is brought up to date in accordance with applicable IFRS.
Then, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets specific to the asset or cash-generating unit.
and disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
classification as held for sale are included in profit or loss, as are gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
Discontinued operations are those operations that can be clearly distinguished from the rest of the Group, both operationally a Goodwill and for financial reporting purposes, that have either been disposed of or classified as held for sale and which represent a Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
from the synergies of the combination.
The Groups cash-generating units are disclosed in note 23 and represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested 3.19 LEASES for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the cash-generating unit may be impaired.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the resulting ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
a Finance leases An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance b Other tangible and intangible assets sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable to the income statement.
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating b Operating leases unit to which the asset belongs.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the An impairment loss recognised in a prior year for an asset other than goodwill may be reversed where there has been a relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straightchange in the estimates used to measure the assets recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised.
Where line basis over the lease term.
an impairment loss is subsequently reversed, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 3.20 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual years.
A reversal of an impairment loss for tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill is recognised immediately in provisions of the instrument.
a Equity instruments 3.16 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and one or more other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control exists when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the b Derivative financial instruments activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to The Group conducts its joint venture arrangements through jointly controlled entities and accounts for them using the equity manage the effects of its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates on its borrowings.
In accordance method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for under IFRS 5. with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Where the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the gain or loss on remeasurement Groups interest in the joint venture.
to fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged note 4.2.
3.17 INVENTORIES The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet Inventories are stated at the lower of cost using the first-in, first-out method and net realisable value.
date, taking into account current interest rates and the creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in purchasing or manufacturing inventories together with all other costs directly incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition and, where appropriate, attributable production overheads based on normal activity levels.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The amount of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value is recognised as an expense in the year in which the write-down occurs.
In addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group holds precious metals under consignment arrangements, further details of which are given in note 28.
Cookson Group plc 64 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 65 Annual Report 2008 OUR ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.20 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 3.22 USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES CONTINUED c Non-derivative financial instruments e Headline profit before tax Non-derivative financial instruments include investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and Headline profit before tax is calculated as the net total of trading profit, plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
ventures and total net finance costs associated with ordinary activities.
The Directors believe that headline profit before tax Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits and short-term highly liquid investments with provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash f Headline earnings per share management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Group Statement of Cash Headline earnings per share is calculated as the net total of trading profit, plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint Flows.
Loans and borrowings comprise secured and unsecured loans and obligations under finance leases note 3.19. ventures and total net finance costs and income tax costs associated with ordinary activities, less profit attributable to Non-derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
minority interests, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The Directors believe The Groups investments in equity and debt securities are classified as available-for-sale investments.
Subsequent to that headline earnings per share provides an important measure of the underlying earnings capacity of the Group.
initial recognition they are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognised directly in equity.
When an investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
g Free cash flow All other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less Free cash flow, defined as net cash flow from operating activities after net outlays for the purchase and sale of property, plant any impairment losses.
and equipment, dividends from joint ventures and dividends paid to minority shareholders, but before additional funding contributions to Group pension plans, is disclosed on the face of the Group Statement of Cash Flows.
The Directors believe 3.21 PROVISIONS that free cash flow gives an important measure of the underlying cash generation capacity of the Group.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group h Average working capital to sales ratio will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to The average working capital to sales ratio is calculated as the percentage of average working capital balances being settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted inventories, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables for a year to the reported revenue for that year.
The using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects both the current market assessment of the time value of money and the specific risks Directors believe that the average working capital to sales ratio provides an important measure of the underlying associated with the obligation.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised effectiveness with which working capital balances are managed throughout the Group.
as an interest expense note 3.10. i EBITDA 3.22 USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES EBITDA is calculated as the total of trading profit before depreciation charges.
The Directors believe that EBITDA provides an The Company uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice non-GAAP financial measures in addition to important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
those reported in accordance with IFRS.
Because IFRS measures reflect all items which affect reported performance, the Directors believe that certain non-GAAP measures, which reflect what they view as the underlying performance of the Group, are j Net interest important and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures.
The following non-GAAP measures are referred to in this Net interest is calculated as interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable, excluding any item therein considered by annual report.
the Directors to be exceptional.
a Net sales value k Interest cover Net sales value is calculated as the total of revenue less the amount included therein related to any precious metal Interest cover is the ratio of EBITDA to net interest.
The Directors believe that interest cover provides an important measure component.
The Directors believe that net sales value provides an important measure of the underlying sales performance of the underlying financial position of the Group.
of the Groups Precious Metals division.
l Net debt b Return on sales and return on net sales value Net debt comprises the net total of current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings and cash and short-term Return on sales is calculated as trading profit divided by revenue.
Return on net sales value is calculated as trading profit deposits.
The Directors believe that net debt is an important measure as it shows the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to divided by net sales value.
The Directors believe that return on sales provides an important measure of the underlying trading banks and other external financial institutions.
performance of the Group and the Groups Ceramics and Electronics divisions and that return on net sales value provides an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Groups Precious Metals division.
m Net debt to EBITDA Net debt to EBITDA is the ratio of net debt at the year-end to EBITDA for that year.
The Directors believe that net debt to c Underlying revenue growth EBITDA provides an important measure of the underlying financial position of the Group.
Underlying revenue growth measures the organic growth in revenue from one year to the next after eliminating the effects of changes in exchange rates and metals prices and the effects of business acquisitions, disposals and closures.
The Directors n Return on net assets believe that underlying revenue growth gives an important measure of the organic revenue generation capacity of the Group.
Return on net assets RONA is calculated as trading profit plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint-ventures divided by average operating net assets being property, plant and equipment, trade working capital and other operating receivables d Trading profit and payables.
The Directors believe that RONA provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of Trading profit, defined as profit from operations before restructuring and integration costs, inventory fair value adjustments, the Groups divisions.
profits or losses relating to non-current assets, charges relating to the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and curtailment gains or losses relating to employee benefits, is separately disclosed on the face of the Group Income Statement.
o Return on investment The Directors believe that trading profit is an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
Return on investment ROI is calculated as trading profit plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint-ventures divided by invested capital being shareholders funds plus net debt, employee benefits net surpluses and net liabilities and goodwill previously written-off to, or amortised against, reserves.
The Directors believe that ROI provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Cookson Group plc 66 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 67 Annual Report 2008 OUR ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 4.1 FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS 4.2 HEDGING ACTIVITIES CONTINUED a Foreign exchange risk b Cash flow hedges The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from transactions and borrowings that are Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling.
It uses various financial instruments to manage these exposures, as transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity within explained below.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit, or finance costs in i Recognised assets and liabilities the case of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges, in the income statement.
When the forecast transaction that Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a was being hedged is realised and affects profit or loss, the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised asset or liability that are attributable to a particular risk and which could affect profit or loss.
Such forward removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period.
When the forecast transaction foreign exchange contracts are accounted for as fair value hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 a. subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or ii Forecast transactions loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or nonForward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that might financial liability.
arise from the fluctuation of exchange rates in relation to highly probable forecast transactions that are denominated in When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge currencies other than its own functional currencies and which might affect profit or loss.
Such forward foreign exchange relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 b. in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction takes place.
If the hedged transaction iii Net investment hedges is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately within trading Forward foreign exchange contracts and debt denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are both used to profit in the income statement.
hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in the value of its investment in the net assets of its foreign operations that arise from fluctuations in exchange rates.
Such financial instruments are accounted for as net investment hedges in c Net investment hedges accordance with the policy in note 4.2 c. The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity within translation reserves and subsequently recognised in the income b Credit risk statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is At the balance sheet date, the Group had no significant concentrations of credit risk.
recognised immediately within trading profit in the income statement.
c Liquidity risk 4.3 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Group Treasury function ensures that there are sufficient levels of committed facilities, cash and cash equivalents to The Group considers its capital to be equal to the sum of its total equity and net debt.
The Groups objectives when managing its ensure that the Group is at all times able to meet its financial commitments and operate within its financial covenants.
capital are: to ensure that the Group and all of its businesses are able to operate as going concerns: d Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk to maximise shareholder value through maintaining an appropriate balance between the Groups equity and net debt: The Groups interest rate risk arises primarily from its borrowings.
An analysis of the currency and interest rate profiles of to have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver acceptable future the Groups borrowings is shown in note 37. returns to investors: and Borrowings at floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk and borrowings at fixed rates expose the to maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Groups policy is to borrow a mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
From time to time the Group manages its cash flow and fair value interest rate risk by using interest rate swaps, which have the economic effect The Group manages its capital using a number of key performance indicators, including RONA and ROI note 3.22. of changing the interest rate profile of the Groups borrowings.
CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 4.2 HEDGING ACTIVITIES 5.1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT The Group designates certain financial instruments as either: a hedges of the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities that are attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit or loss fair value hedges : b It is Group policy to depreciate its property, plant and equipment assets, except freehold land, on a straight-line basis over their hedges of the exposure to variability in cash flows that are attributable to a particular risk associated with a highly probable estimated useful lives.
This applies an appropriate matching of the revenue earned with the capital costs of production and forecast transaction and could affect profit or loss cash flow hedges : or c hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
delivery of goods and services.
A key element of this policy is the estimate of the useful life applied to each category of property, At the inception of the transaction the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged plant and equipment which, in turn, determines the annual depreciation charge.
Variations in asset lives could significantly item.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the financial impact Group profit through an increase or decrease in the depreciation charge.
instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
5.2 GOODWILL The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill and other capitalised intangible assets have a value a Fair value hedges that will benefit the performance of the Group over future periods.
To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised within trading an assessment, at least annually, of the carrying value of the Groups capitalised goodwill and other intangible assets, using profit in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities that are subject discounted cash flow forecasts to derive the value in use to the Group of the capitalised assets.
In the assessment undertaken in to the hedged risk.
2008, further details of which are given in note 23, value in use was derived from discounted 5-year cash flow projections, using a growth rate of 3% in the years beyond the projection period and pre-tax discount rates.
The projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Groups businesses for this purpose.
Changes to the assumptions and discount rates used in making these forecasts could significantly alter the Directors assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets.
Cookson Group plc 68 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 69 Annual Report 2008 OUR ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 6.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED 6.1 BUSINESS SEGMENTS 5.3 CURRENT ASSET RESERVES For reporting purposes, the Group is organised into three main business segments: Ceramics, Electronics and Precious Metals.
In the course of normal trading activities, and in particular in the current economic environment, judgement is used to establish In addition, corporate costs, being the costs directly related to managing the parent company, are reported separately in the analysis the net realisable value of various elements of working capital, principally inventory and trade receivables.
Reserves are of segment result.
The principal activities of each of these segments are described in the Operating Review on pages 12 to 21. established for obsolete or slow-moving inventories, bad or doubtful debts and product warranties.
Segment revenue represents revenue from external customers inter-segment revenue is not material and segment result is Reserve requirements are based on the facts available at the time and are also determined by using profiles, based on past equivalent to trading profit.
Segment assets exclude cash and short-term deposits, employee benefits surpluses, deferred tax practice, applied to certain aged inventory and receivables categories.
In estimating the collectability of trade receivables, assets, income tax recoverable, investments in joint ventures, assets classified as held for sale and corporate assets that cannot judgement is required in assessing their likely realisation, including the current creditworthiness of each customer and related be allocated on a reasonable basis to a business segment.
These items are shown collectively in the following tables as ageing of the past due balances.
Specific accounts are assessed in situations where a customer may not be able to meet its unallocated assets.
Segment result and segment assets include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those items financial obligations due to deterioration in its financial condition, credit ratings or bankruptcy.
that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
5.4 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Groups financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension and other post- 6.2 SEGMENT REVENUE AND SEGMENT RESULT retirement benefits to current and former employees.
It is the Directors responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining Segment revenue Segment result the key elements of the costs of meeting such future obligations.
These assumptions are set after consultation with the Groups 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m actuaries and include those used to determine regular service costs and the financing elements related to the plans assets and liabilities.
Whilst the Directors believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would affect Ceramics 1,264.3 781.1 167.7 109.4 the Groups profit and financial position.
Electronics 620.3 558.2 51.7 58.0 Precious Metals 317.9 280.2 4.5 9.9 5.5 DEFERRED TAXATION Corporate costs 7.6 7.7 The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other timing differences arising in certain of the Total Group continuing operations 2,202.5 1,619.5 216.3 169.6 Groups businesses, primarily in Europe and South America.
Account has been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values at which these assets are recognised.
If these forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which the losses or timing difference might be recognised, then the value of the Since its acquisition on 4 April 2008, Foseco plc Foseco has contributed 361.4m of revenue and 52.8m of trading profit to deferred tax asset will need to be revised in a future period.
Further information relating to the acquisition of Foseco is given in note 42.
The Group has losses and other timing differences for which no value has been recognised for deferred tax purposes in these financial statements.
These can arise in loss-making subsidiaries where the future economic benefit of these timing differences is not probable.
It can also arise where the timing differences are of such a nature that their value is dependent on only certain 6.3 RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT RESULT TO PROFIT BEFORE TAX types of profit being earned, such as capital profits.
If trading or other appropriate profits are earned in future in these 2008 2007 companies, these losses and other timing differences may yield benefit to the Group in the form of a reduced tax charge.
m m Segment result 216.3 169.6 5.6 ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES Restructuring and integration costs 39.6 5.8 In certain parts of the business, mainly in the US, the Group has obligations to carry out environmental clean-ups at former and Inventory fair value adjustment 2.6 current production sites.
Many of these obligations will not arise for a number of years and the costs are difficult to predict Profit relating to non-current assets 3.4 7.0 accurately.
The Directors use their judgement and experience to make reserves in the financial statements for an appropriate amount for the likely cost of such clean-ups.
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 52.5 Curtailment gains relating to employee benefits 6.0 1.0 5.7 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Profit from operations 131.0 171.8 The Groups financial statements present the results of discontinued operations separately from continuing operations.
Finance costs ordinary activities 85.3 50.9 Discontinued operations include those businesses that have been sold, or are classified as held for sale, and which represented exceptional items 2.2 a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
The Directors exercise their judgement to determine which Finance income 44.5 29.4 of the Groups businesses should have their results presented within discontinued operations.
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 0.7 1.7 Net profit loss on disposal of continuing operations 0.9 0.4 Profit before tax 89.6 151.6 Cookson Group plc 70 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 71 Annual Report 2008 OUR ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
RESTRUCTURING AND INTEGRATION COSTS 6.4 SEGMENT DEPRECIATION AND SEGMENT ASSETS The restructuring and integration costs of 39.6m 2007: 5.8m comprise 17.1m of costs associated with the integration of Depreciation Assets Foseco into the Groups Ceramics division and 22.5m for the cost of a number of initiatives throughout the Group aimed at 2008 2007 2008 2007 reducing the Groups cost base and re-aligning its manufacturing capacity with its customers markets.
The initiatives m m m m implemented included redundancy programmes, the consolidation of facilities, plant closures, the streamlining of manufacturing Ceramics 34.8 22.8 1,761.5 646.4 processes and the rationalisation of product lines.
Of these rationalisation charges, 8.2m 2007: 1.6m was in respect of asset write-downs.
Cash costs of 23.0m were incurred in the year 2007: 14.7m in respect of the restructuring and integration Electronics 9.3 8.9 566.9 449.8 initiatives commenced both in 2008 and in prior years, leaving provisions made but unspent of 19.5m as at 31 December 2008 Precious Metals 3.1 3.2 120.1 137.5 2007: 5.8m.
The net tax credit attributable to these restructuring and integration costs was 2.9m 2007: 0.5m.
INVENTORY FAIR VALUE ADJUSTMENT Total Group 47.2 34.9 2,698.5 1,461.3 The value of the inventory acquired on the acquisition of Foseco note 42 was increased by 2.6m in order to restate the value of finished goods inventory from cost, as it had been valued in Fosecos balance sheet immediately prior to acquisition, to its fair The increase in segment assets in the Ceramics division is primarily due to the impact of the acquisition of Foseco note 42. value as recognised on acquisition by Cookson, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
The inventory that was subject to this valuation adjustment had all been sold by 31 December 2008.
The tax credit attributable to this adjustment was 0.8m.
6.5 GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION External revenue Non-current assets 2008 2007 2008 2007 11.
PROFIT RELATING TO NON-CURRENT ASSETS m m m m The net profit relating to non-current assets of 3.4m 2007: 7.0m comprised net profits of 8.4m arising on the sale of Europe 892.0 618.2 735.9 206.6 investments and surplus property, less asset write-downs of 5.0m.
The net profit relating to non-current assets in 2007 NAFTA 601.1 520.4 431.1 318.3 comprised profits on the sale of surplus property.
The net tax charge attributable to non-current assets was 0.2m 2007: 1.2m.
EMPLOYEES Continuing operations 2,202.5 1,619.5 1,664.7 707.3 12.1 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE Discontinued operations 1.5 0.2 0.7 2008 2007 Unallocated 13.8 18.6 m m Total Group 2,202.5 1,621.0 1,678.7 726.6 Wages and salaries 412.2 321.3 Social security costs 47.5 35.1 In the table above external revenue is based upon the geographical location of the operation.
Non-current assets exclude Share-based payments note 39 2.7 3.5 deferred tax assets and employee benefits.
Pension costs defined contribution plans note 38 10.1 7.7 defined benefit plans note 38 3.5 6.9 Other post-retirement benefits note 38 2.0 1.4 7.
EXPENSES BY NATURE Total employee benefits expense 478.0 375.9 The following items have been charged credited in arriving at trading profit: 2008 2007 m m Of the total employee benefits expense of 478.0m 2007: 375.9m, 480.1m 2007: 372.8m was charged in arriving at trading Cost of sales 1,615.3 1,168.0 profit, 0.2m 2007: 2.0m was charged within restructuring and integration costs, 6.0m 2007: 1.0m was credited within Depreciation 47.2 34.9 curtailment gains relating to employee benefits, 33.4m 2007: 25.6m was charged within finance costs, 29.7m 2007: Minimum lease payments under leases and sub-leases 20.6 13.5 22.6m was credited within finance income, nil 2007: 1.0m was credited within loss on disposal of continuing operations and Employee benefits expense note 12.1 480.1 372.8 nil 2007: 0.1m was charged in arriving at net post-tax loss attributable to discontinued operations.
Auditors remuneration note 8 3.2 2.4 Foreign exchange differences 1.1 0.4 12.2 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Research and development costs 30.7 23.1 2008 2007 No.
AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO KPMG AUDIT PLC AND ITS ASSOCIATES 2008 2007 Precious Metals 1,747 1,725 m m Continuing operations 17,204 13,353 Audit of these financial statements 0.5 0.6 Discontinued operations 37 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.8 1.1 Total average number of employees 17,204 13,390 Other services pursuant to such legislation 0.1 0.1 Other services relating to taxation 0.2 0.2 The increase in employee numbers during the year is largely attributable to the acquisition of Foseco note 42.
Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.6 0.4 Total Auditors remuneration 3.2 2.4 Cookson Group plc 72 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 73 Annual Report 2008 OUR ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
NET PROFIT LOSS ON DISPOSAL OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS 12.3 REMUNERATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL The net profit on disposal of continuing operations of 0.9m 2007: 0.4m loss related to the sale of the Groups Hi-Tech ceramic filters business, formerly part of the Ceramics division, and the sale of Fosecos Carbon Bonded Ceramics business, both of which The remuneration of the executive Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate disposals were required for compliance with anti-trust clearances in relation to the acquisition of Foseco note 42, together with for each of the categories specified in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual the net costs associated with a number of other small business disposals.
None of the businesses disposed of either individually Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 51. or in aggregate represented a separate major line of business or geographical area of operation.
Accordingly, these disposals are 2008 2007 presented within pre-tax results from continuing operations in the Group Income Statement.
The aggregate proceeds, net of m m selling costs, amounted to 21.2m 2007: 1.5m and together with additional costs in relation to prior years disposals, resulted Short-term employee benefits 1.0 1.6 in a net profit before tax of 0.9m 2007: loss of 0.4m.
Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 The tax charge associated with these disposals was 0.3m 2007: nil.
Share-based payments 1.3 1.1 Total remuneration of key management personnel 2.5 2.9 15.
FINANCE COSTS AND FINANCE INCOME Current tax: 13.1 TOTAL NET FINANCE COSTS UK corporation tax 7.9 16.8 2008 2007 m m Double tax relief 6.0 16.2 Overseas taxation 43.8 33.6 Finance costs ordinary activities 85.3 50.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.2 4.9 exceptional items 2.2 Finance income 44.5 29.4 Total current tax 44.5 39.1 Total net finance costs 43.0 21.5 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary taxable differences 5.8 7.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.5 3.5 13.2 ORDINARY FINANCE COSTS AND FINANCE INCOME 2008 2007 Total deferred tax note 26 4.3 4.3 m m Total income tax costs 40.2 43.4 Interest payable on borrowings: Bank loans and overdrafts 49.0 23.8 The Groups total income tax cost of 40.2m 2007: 43.4m includes a credit of 8.1m 2007: charge of 3.5m relating to Obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.1 exceptional items comprising a credit of 2.9m 2007: 0.5m in relation to restructuring and integration costs, a credit of 0.8m Amortisation of capitalised borrowing costs 1.8 0.4 2007: nil relating to the inventory fair value adjustment, a credit of 3.7m 2007: nil relating to the amortisation and 51.0 24.3 impairment of intangible assets, a credit of 1.2m 2007: 2.8m charge relating to deferred tax on goodwill, a charge of 0.2m Other interest payable: 2007: 1.2m relating to non-current assets and a charge of 0.3m 2007: nil relating to the profit loss on disposal of continuing operations.
The current tax cost for 2008 was reduced by a benefit of 1.2m 2007: 3.5m arising from previously Interest on retirement benefit obligations 33.4 25.6 unrecognised tax losses.
Unwinding of discounted provisions 0.9 1.0 The Group operates in a number of countries that have differing tax rates, laws and practices.
Changes in any of these areas Total ordinary finance costs 85.3 50.9 could, adversely or positively, impact the Groups tax charge in the future.
Continuing losses, or insufficiency of taxable profit to absorb all expenses, in any subsidiary could have the effect of increasing tax charges in the future, relative to 2008, as effective tax relief may not be available for those losses or expenses.
Other significant factors affecting the tax charge are described in Interest receivable 14.4 6.4 notes 3.11 and 5.5.
Expected return on retirement benefit assets 29.7 22.6 The tax charge relating to items charged or credited directly to equity was 20.5m 2007: 0.3m, of which 19.8m 2007: Unwinding of discounted receivables 0.4 0.4 nil relates to the surplus arising on the UK pension funds note 38.5.
Total ordinary finance income 44.5 29.4 13.3 EXCEPTIONAL FINANCE COSTS A tranche of the borrowing facility that was arranged in October 2007 was cancelled during the year without being utilised and the 2.2m of costs associated with arranging this tranche of the facility have been written-off in the year as an exceptional item within finance costs.
Cookson Group plc 74 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 75 Annual Report 2008
