Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board met formally seven times during The Directors have reviewed the Groups The non-executive Directors including the the year.
There was full attendance at all compliance with the Combined Code on Chairman, are all considered by the Board meetings, with the exception of Giles Kerr, Corporate Governance issued by the to be independent of the management and who was unable to attend one meeting.
Financial Services Authority in June 2006 free from any business or other relationship During the year, the Chairman met with the the Code.
that could materially interfere with the other non-executive Directors without the exercise of their independent judgement.
For FTSE 250 companies, the Code requires executive Directors present on one occasion, Anita Frew was the Senior Independent that at least half of the Board, excluding the and the Senior Independent Director met Director until 30 September 2008 when she Chairman, should comprise non-executive with the other non-executive Directors, was succeeded by Giles Kerr.
Directors determined by the Board to be without the Chairman present, The Board has a clearly documented independent.
Until 28 July 2008, the Group on one occasion.
schedule of matters reserved for its decision, had not strictly complied with this including approval of the Groups strategy, The Board has delegated certain requirement as there were four executive the annual budget, material capital responsibilities to standing Committees, Directors and only three independent nonexpenditure, material contracts, customer which report back to the Board on the basis executive Directors, although the Board also credit limits above certain levels, major of clearly defined terms of reference.
considered the Chairman, Peter Warry to be investments and disposals and entering into independent.
However, with effect from 28 The terms of reference of the Committees material strategic alliances, joint ventures July 2008, the Group has complied with this are available on the Companys website provision following the appointment of two and partnerships.
com and, in paper form on further independent non-executive Directors.
to-day and business management control to request, from the Registered Office of the the executive Directors led by the Chief Subject to the above point, the Directors Company.
confirm that the Group complied in all A formal review of Board and Board respects with the Code throughout the year, The Board receives sufficient management Committee performance is carried out as follows: information and reports on all strategic and annually.
The Chairmans performance is significant operational matters on a timely The Board reviewed by the Remuneration Committee basis.
Senior executives also attend Board The Board is responsible for the Groups excluding the Chairman in conjunction meetings as appropriate.
Site visits and strategic development, monitoring with the Chief Executive.
The other nonbriefings by operational management to achievement of its business objectives and executive Directors performance is enhance the Boards understanding of the maintaining a system of effective corporate evaluated by the Chairman in consultation business take place regularly.
governance, which includes the with the executive Directors.
Executive responsibility for health, safety, Training including social, environmental and Directors performance is reviewed by the environmental, social and ethical matters.
ethical matters is provided for new Remuneration Committee in conjunction Directors as required, by means of a tailored with the Chief Executive, except in the case The Board comprises a non-executive induction, and subsequently as required.
of his own performance review.
Chairman, four other non-executive Directors can take independent professional Directors and four executive Directors.
All of advice where necessary at the Companys the Directors served throughout the year expense and have access to the services of with the exception of Patrick fide Smedt and the Company Secretary whose appointment Lawrence Pentz who were appointed on 28 is a Board matter and who is responsible for July 2008.
Both were considered by the ensuring that Board procedures and all Board to be independent on appointment.
applicable rules and regulations are Peter Warry retired as non-executive followed.
Appropriate levels of insurance Chairman and as a Director of the Company cover are obtained for all Directors and with effect from 30 September 2008, and Officers of the Company.
was succeeded by Anita Frew.
The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly distinct.
The division of their responsibilities is set out in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
There is no Deputy Chairman.
20 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Such non-audit services require approval by Nominations Committee The Remuneration Committee, comprising Chairman Anita Frew the Committee.
In considering whether the all of the non-executive Directors, is The Nominations Committee was chaired by provision of such services could impair the responsible for reviewing and Peter Warry until his retirement with effect external auditors independence or recommending the framework and policy from 30 September 2008. objectivity, the Committee is governed by for remuneration of the Chairman, the following guidelines, which are executive Directors and senior executives, The Nominations Committee, comprising incorporated in its terms of reference: which the Board as a whole is responsible all of the non-executive Directors and the for approving.
Chief Executive, is responsible for regularly whether the skills and experience of the external auditor make it a suitable reviewing the structure, size and Once approved, the Remuneration supplier of the non-audit service under composition of the Board, including Committee is responsible for evaluating the consideration: succession planning and identifying and performance and determining specific whether there are safeguards in place recommending appropriate candidates for remuneration packages for the Chairman to ensure that there is no threat to membership of the Board when vacancies and each executive Director.
The Chairman objectivity and independence in the arise.
In considering an appointment the and executive Directors are responsible for conduct of the audit resulting from the Nominations Committee evaluates the the agreement of non-executive Directors provision of such services by the external balance of skills, knowledge and remuneration.
During the year the auditor: experience of the Board and prepares a Committee sought advice on executive the nature of the non-audit services, the description of the role and capabilities Directors remuneration from Hewitt New related fee levels individually and in required for a particular appointment.
aggregate relative to the audit fee and, External search consultants are then used The Remuneration Committee met four the criteria which govern the to identify appropriate candidates.
This times during the year and there was full compensation of the individuals procedure was most recently applied for attendance at all meetings.
the appointment of Patrick fide Smedt and Audit Committee In principle the external auditor should not Lawrence Pentz.
The external search Chairman Giles Kerr provide any service which: consultants used were Hanson Green.
The Audit Committee, comprising all of the results in the external auditor auditing The Nominations Committee is also non-executive Directors except the its own firms work: responsible for annually reviewing the time Chairman, is responsible for assisting the leads to the external auditor making a required from each non-executive Director.
Board with its responsibilities in respect of management decision for the Company: The Nominations Committee met three external financial reporting.
This includes creates a mutuality of interest or, times during the year and there was full reviewing the Groups financial statements, attendance at all meetings.
leads to the external auditor being put in preliminary announcements and any formal the role of advocate for the Company.
Based on recommendations from the announcements relating to financial The Audit Committee met three times Nominations Committee, Directors submit performance, or other statements during the year and there was full themselves for re-election at the AGM containing financial information, before attendance at all meetings.
Only following their appointment and thereafter submission to the Board for endorsement.
Committee members are entitled to attend by rotation, at least once every three years.
The Committee also reviews the Groups a meeting.
However, the Chairman, the whistleblowing policy.
Remuneration Committee Finance Director, the Group Financial Chairman Jonathan Azis It is also responsible for overseeing all Controller and the External Audit The Remuneration Committee was chaired matters associated with the appointment, Engagement Director are normally invited by Anita Frew until her appointment as terms, remuneration and performance of to attend meetings.
Others are also invited non-executive Chairman which took effect the external auditor and for reviewing the to attend as appropriate.
A section of at from 1 October 2008. scope and results of the audit and its cost least one meeting each year takes place effectiveness.
The Committee reviews without management present.
annually the independence and objectivity of the external auditor taking into account the non-audit services provided by the firm.
Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 21 Relations with shareholders At its meeting on 23 November 2007, the Disclosure Committee Chairman Anita Frew, David Hummel The Company is always ready, where Committee reviewed the Companys or Michael Peacock practicable, to enter into dialogue with preliminary announcement of its results for The Disclosure Committees responsibilities institutional shareholders to promote a the financial year ended 30 September 2007 are to ensure that the Companys mutual understanding of objectives.
and the draft Annual Report and Accounts obligations to make timely and accurate Institutional investor relations activity is for that year.
The external auditor reported disclosure of information in accordance with normally concentrated in the periods to the Committee on the conduct of its any applicable law or regulation are met in following the announcement of the interim audit, its review of the accounts, including circumstances where it is impractical for the and final results.
More broadly based accounting policies and areas of judgement, Board, or any other Board Committee with presentations and site visits are arranged and commented on risk management and delegated responsibility, to fulfil those when there is a sufficient demand to make control matters.
The results of regular obligations.
In accordance with these it cost effective.
The AGM provides the internal control reviews were also responsibilities the Committee may make Board with an opportunity to meet considered.
The Committee carried out the disclosures on behalf of the Board.
informally and communicate directly with annual appraisal of the external auditor private investors.
Proxy votes lodged on including reviewing non-audit fees and the The Committee comprises all Directors of each AGM resolution are announced.
effectiveness of the audit process.
the Company and senior finance executives.
The Chairman of each Committee meeting To ensure that the Board, particularly the At its meeting on 9 May 2008, the will be appointed on an ad hoc basis.
Committee reviewed the Companys interim non-executive Directors, understands the A quorum for a Committee meeting will be results announcement and draft Half-yearly views of major shareholders, the Companys any two Committee members, provided that Financial Report.
The external auditor brokers provide a summary of feedback this includes at least one of the Companys reported to the Committee on its review.
from the meetings following the Chairman, the Chief Executive or the The Committee also considered the results announcement of the interim and final Finance Director.
Meetings of the of regular internal control reviews.
Committee may be called by any member On 22 September 2008, the external The Board is also regularly provided with of the Committee on any period of notice auditor presented its proposed fees and summaries of analysts views on the provided that notice is given to all members.
scope for the audit for the year ended 30 Company.
In addition the Chairman is The Committee will consider the September 2008.
The Committee also available to meet institutional shareholders.
circumstances that give rise to the potential carried out its annual performance appraisal The Senior Independent Director and other need for a disclosure, whether it is practical and terms of reference review.
non-executive Directors will attend meetings for the Board or any other Board Committee with major shareholders if requested.
At its meeting on 24 November 2008, the to consider the potential disclosure and, if it Committee reviewed the Companys Internal control is impractical, the form and content of a preliminary announcement of its results for The Group has complied with the Code disclosure to be made on behalf of the the financial year ended 30 September provisions on internal control by operating Board.
2008 and the draft Annual Report and throughout the year ended 30 September The Committee will take advice, including Accounts for that year.
The external auditor 2008 and up to the date of approval of this advice from the Companys brokers, external reported to the Committee on the conduct Annual Report those procedures necessary auditor and legal advisers, on the form and of its audit, its review of the accounts, to implement the recommendations of the content of any disclosure under including policies and areas of judgement, Turnbull Committee and by reporting in consideration.
and commented on risk management and accordance with these recommendations.
The results of internal control matters were also considered.
The Committee carried out the annual appraisal of the external auditor including reviewing non-audit fees and the effectiveness of the audit process.
22 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Board is ultimately responsible for the Risk Management Committee Currency Committee Chairman Tim Walker Chairman David Hummel Groups system of internal control which The Risk Management Committee is chaired The Currency Committee is chaired by the covers all controls including financial, by the Production and Technical Director, Chief Executive, and comprises two further operational, compliance and risk and comprises two further executive executive Directors and senior finance management as further described below Directors and senior executives from the executives.
It meets monthly to review and and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a operational, commercial and finance manage the Groups currency hedging system is designed to manage rather than functions.
It is responsible for ensuring that activities.
The Board is responsible for eliminate the risk of failure to achieve all risks facing the Group are reduced to an setting the hedging policy.
business objectives and can provide only acceptable level.
reasonable and not absolute assurance Currently the Group exports 97% of sales against material misstatement or loss.
This is achieved by an ongoing review from the UK.
These sales are primarily which includes identifying all risks faced by denominated in US Dollar, Euro and Yen.
Control environment the Group and assessing those risks, whilst Group hedging policy is to defer the impact The Group maintains a clearly defined and recognising existing control measures, so on profits of currency movements by well established control environment.
The that unacceptable risks are identified.
hedging: Groups strategy is established and Plans are developed and implemented to periodically reviewed by the Board and key a minimum of 90% and a maximum of eliminate, reduce or transfer these risks projects are considered in this context.
The 100% of projected transaction exposures where practicable.
The Committee is also management of the Group is delegated to arising from trading in the forthcoming responsible for reviewing the risk the Chief Executive and his fellow executive six month period: management and control process within Directors.
Authority is delegated to senior a minimum of 75% and a maximum of the Group.
executives as appropriate and the 100% of projected transaction exposures organisational requirements of a rapidly arising in the following six month period The Committee meets quarterly and developing business are regularly reviewed.
and, regularly reports to the Board.
In addition, at the Boards discretion a maximum of the Board undertakes annually a formal The Group has a comprehensive process of 75% of projected transaction exposures review of the risk management process annual budgeting, detailed monthly arising in the further three month period.
and the performance of the Risk management reporting and regular Profitability can nevertheless vary due to Management Committee.
forecasting linked to the Groups business the impact of fluctuating exchange rates objectives.
on the uncovered portion of the transaction The Directors have also reviewed the need exposures and from revised forecasts of for an internal audit function and have future trading, which can lead to an concluded that there is no requirement at adjustment of currency cover in place.
The Group has a clear and ongoing The impact of this hedging policy is process for identifying, evaluating and disclosed in notes 15 and 26 to the managing significant risks, which is financial statements.
managed by the Risk Management Committee.
