VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 49 Corporate Governance Report 2008 for the year ended 31 March 2008 At 12 May 2008, the Board comprised Mike Jeffries, Chairman: Compliance with the Combined Code Paul Lester, Chief Executive: fi five independent non-executive Throughout the period of this report, the Board has been in directors: and three executive directors.
Andrew Given is the compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Senior Independent Director.
Biographies of the directors, giving as applicable under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
details of their experience and main commitments, are set out on pages 38 to 39.
The Code requires listed companies to report how the main and supporting principles of the Code have been applied, giving The Board holds full meetings at least seven times a year, spread suffi cient detail to enable shareholders to evaluate the report, across the full calendar year.
In addition there is a separate meeting and to state whether there has been compliance with the each year to discuss the strategic plan.
The directors believe that provisions of the Code and providing an explanation for any these meetings enable the Board to exercise control over the points of non-compliance.
Group and remain fully conversant with its activities.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board which only the The Board Board itself can change.
These matters include the acquisition and disposal of businesses, signifi cant contractual commitments, and The Code requires the Company to have an effective board whose a review of risk management processes.
role is to provide leadership within a framework of controls which allows risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets strategic The Chairman meets with the non-executives directors without the aims, defi fines the Companys values, and ensures that obligations to executive directors present at least once a year.
The role of non-executive directors includes Directors and offi cers of the Group have the benefi t of a directors developing corporate strategy: scrutinising management: and and offi cers liability insurance policy.
The Company has agreed to ensuring the integrity of fi financial information and risk management indemnify each director through a Deed of Indemnity in respect of systems.
The Board believes it has met these requirements.
certain liabilities to third parties which may be incurred as a result of The composition of the Board during the year has changed as discharging his or her duties as a director.
A copy is available from follows: Chris Rickard resigned on 24 April 2007: Philip Harrison the Company Secretary for inspection.
was appointed as Finance Director on 19 November 2007: The number of full scheduled Board and committee meetings and Peter McIntosh was appointed as Executive Director on attended by each director was as follows: 22 January 2008.
David Thorpe resigned on 12 May 2008 and after the year end.
Ian Tyler was appointed on 12 May 2008.
Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Mr M M E Jeffries 6 7 2 2 1 1 Mr D M Barclay 7 7 4 4 4 4 1 1 Baroness Blackstone 7 7 4 4 1 1 Lord Boyce 7 7 3 4 1 1 Mr C J Cundy 7 7 Mr P J Harrison 4 4 Mr A F Given 7 7 4 4 4 4 1 1 Mr P J Lester 7 7 Mr P J McIntosh 2 2 Mr C J Rickard 0 0 Mr D A Thorpe 5 7 3 4 3 3 How we run the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 50 Corporate Governance Report 2008 for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued aspects of the Groups business, and ad hoc reports are circulated Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive if decisions are required between formally arranged meetings.
The Code requires that there should be a clear division of Non-executive directors have ready access to executive directors.
responsibilities between the running of the Board and executive Board meetings are held at different Company locations during the responsibility for the running of the business so that no one year as well as at the head office, enabling directors to make site person has unrestricted power.
Non-executive directors make site visits during the year and executive directors carry out regular business reviews at different The Board has met this requirement by establishing clearly locations throughout the year.
defined roles for the Chairman and Chief Executive.
This division of responsibilities is set down in writing and agreed by the Board.
All newly appointed directors are provided with a structured The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, induction programme which includes meetings both internally ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
Once strategic and externally with those principally involved with the business.
and financial objectives have been agreed by the Board as Ongoing training is provided for all directors to ensure that they a whole, it is the Chief Executives responsibility to ensure are aware of their responsibilities.
The Chief Executive is obliged to comply with a All directors have access to the advice and services of the practical schedule of matters requiring Board approval before Company Secretary and are able to take independent professional implementation: this schedule is reviewed at least annually.
advice at the Companys expense.
The current commitments of Mr Jeffries outside VT Group are: chairman of Wembley National Stadium Limited: chairman of Performance evaluation Wyless Plc: and GVA Grimley.
The Code requires the Board to undertake a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance annually and that of its Board balance and independence committees and the directors.
The Company complies with the requirements of the Code A formal evaluation was conducted by means of detailed that there should be a balance of executive and non-executive questionnaires completed by each director.
The answers formed directors so that no individual or small group can dominate decision the basis of a review by the whole Board led by the Chairman.
The Board has met the requirement that at least 50% of its Comments were invited on a wide range of issues including Board members should be independent throughout the year.
and Board Committee skill and balance: frequency of meetings: In deciding the chairmanship and membership of Board access to management other than executive directors: sufficiency committees, both the need to refresh membership and the skills of information: achievement of objectives: operational issues and of the individuals are taken into account.
monitoring: dialogue with shareholders: rigour of meetings: and working relationships.
The Chairman has discussed the results All non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be with each director and provided feedback to the full Board.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate The performance of the Chairman has been subject to appraisal in the Companys share, bonus or pension schemes.
by the Board led by the senior independent director.
The Board At the time of his appointment as Chairman, and in compliance with is considering whether for next year evaluation should be carried the Code, Mr Michael Jeffries was considered to be independent.
out by an external assessor.
Processes are in place to ensure that, in the event of a conflict Re-election of interest, this is reported to the Board and the director involved takes no part in the relevant discussion.
A resolution will be put Under the Code, directors should offer themselves for re-election to this years AGM amending the Companys Articles to give the at regular intervals, and all the directors submit themselves Board the power to authorise directors conflicts of interest in line for re-election at least every three years.
Directors stand for with changes to the law introduced by the Companies Act 2006. reappointment by the shareholders at the first annual general meeting following their appointment, and subsequently at least Appointments to the Board every three years.
There is a rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment Non-executive directors are appointed for a term of three years and of new directors.
Appointments are made on merit and against may be reappointed for a further term of three years by agreement objective criteria.
The Miles Partnership was retained as a of the Board.
On appointment each non-executive director receives consultant for the appointment of Philip Harrison and Odgers Ray a letter setting out the terms of his or her appointment.
The terms & Berndtson for Ian Tyler.
The Company has a talent management and conditions are available for inspection from the Company and succession planning process.
Non-executive directors are not employees and do not participate in the daily business of the Group.
Information and professional development A main principle of the Code is that information of sufficient quality Remuneration is supplied to the Board in a timely manner.
The Board is supplied Information on the Remuneration Committee is set out below, with detailed information several days prior to its meetings.
and the Directors Remuneration report is on pages 58 to 63.
The agenda for each meeting includes substantial reports on all VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 51 The Committees responsibilities are described in the Directors Board committees Remuneration report on page 56.
The Board has three standing committees, audit, remuneration The Committee has access to information and advice both from and nomination.
Each has its own terms of reference which are within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it available on our website, www.
com, or on request from deems necessary.
It is responsible for appointing any consultants the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is secretary in respect of executive remuneration.
During the year the committee considered, among other Audit Committee matters, provisions for employees transferring to the proposed Members during the year were: Mr A Given chairman : shipbuilding joint venture and senior and executive staff Mr D Barclay: and Mr D Thorpe.
The Finance Director and remuneration and incentivisation.
representatives of the Groups external auditor attend by Nomination Committee invitation.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and at least once a year there is an opportunity for the external auditor Members during the year were: Mr M Jeffries: Baroness to discuss matters with the committee without the executive Blackstone: Lord Boyce: Mr D Barclay: Mr A Given: and directors being present.
The Board has determined that the Committee members have All directors appointments are considered before formal suffi cient skills and experience to contribute meaningfully to the approval by the Board and the Committee aims to maintain Committees discussions.
The chairman of the Committee has a proper balance between executive and non-executive the required experience in accounting and fi financial management.
directors in accordance with the Code.
The Committee takes account of the guidance in the Combined The Committee leads the process for identifying and Code on audit committees.
recommending candidates for appointment as directors, giving The Committee has set parameters so that the independence full consideration to succession planning and the needs of the of the external auditor is not prejudiced when undertaking Group, including qualifi cations and the expertise necessary to non-audit work.
Depending on the nature of the work it is either guide the Groups strategy.
Before concluding arrangements prohibited or, unless below a fide minimis threshold, requires with any preferred candidate for appointment to the Board, the prior approval from the Group Finance Director and, for larger Committee satisfi es itself that the candidates other commitments projects, the Committee.
Non audit work includes tax advice, due are not such that they would adversely affect the candidates diligence and other transaction related services the Company ability to devote adequate time to the position.
has appointed a different fi rm of accountants from its auditor The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of as its principal tax advisor.
The cost effectiveness and impact the Board.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on the on any corporate relationship with its auditors are considered composition of its committees.
The Committee meets when when awarding non-audit work.
In turn, the external auditor required.
No-one other than members of the Committee is has in place processes to ensure that its independence is entitled to be present at its meetings but non-executive directors maintained.
Fees paid to the auditor, in respect of the year ended are invited to attend.
31 March 2008 totalled 2.0m, including 0.77m for the audit of the Company and its subsidiaries and 1.3m for other services The Committee has access to such information and advice as primarily due diligence and work relating to public documents it may require both from within the Group and externally at the relating to the Groups proposed Shipbuilding Joint Venture.
This may include the appointment of external See note 7 to the fi financial statements for further details.
During the year the committee has considered, among other The committee met during the year to consider the appointment items, the effectiveness of the internal audit function, the Groups of Mr Ian Tyler to the Board.
risk management processes and matters raised by the auditors.
Group Executive Committee Remuneration Committee The Group Executive Committee GEC is the Chief Executives Members during the year were: Mr D Thorpe chairman until committee and is responsible for managing the business.
31 January 2008 : Mr D Barclay chairman from 31 January 2008 : Its members are the executive directors together with the managing Baroness Blackstone: Lord Boyce: and Mr A Given.
directors of the business divisions, the Group HR Director, and The Committee comprises exclusively non-executive directors.
It meets fortnightly throughout the The Chairman, Chief Executive and Group HR Director attend year.
Members who are not Board directors are invited to make the Committee, by invitation, when appropriate.
No executive is presentations to the Board during the year.
The GEC focuses on present when the Committee considers matters relating to him or operational performance and decision making.
Mr Jeffries is absent when his remuneration as Chairman is under consideration.
The Committee meets periodically when required but not less than twice a year.
How we run the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 52 Corporate Governance Report 2008 for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of Accountability and audit internal controls in the year including via the following: Financial reporting annual budgets are prepared for each operating business and compared with monthly management reporting, which focuses The Board is required to present a balanced and comprehensible on actual performance against these budgets: assessment of the Groups position and prospects and is satisfied that it has met this obligation.
A summary of the directors management reports, internal and external audit reports responsibilities for the financial statements is set out on page 64. on the system of internal controls, and any material control weaknesses that are identified: Organisation discussions with management including discussions on the The Group has a defined structure in which operational actions taken on problem areas identified by Board members management has detailed responsibilities and levels of or in the internal or external audit reports: authorisation.
The Group has a Code of Business Ethics setting out principles to be followed by all employees in the course of policies and procedures for matters such as the delegation of business.
A confidential telephone line is available for staff to authorities, capital expenditure and treasury management, as report concerns with regard to conduct.
well as regular updates: Ethical trading review of the adequacy of the level of experienced and professional staff throughout the business and the expertise of Further information on the Groups ethical trading policies is given individual staff members so that they are capable of carrying in the Corporate responsibility report on page 41. out their respective responsibilities: Internal controls review of major tenders which are specifically approved by the Board, and contract performance, which is regularly reviewed Following the publication of guidance for directors Internal Control: and compared against estimates drawn up at the time of Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull original tender: and guidance, the Board confirms that the Group has established processes and procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing review of the external and internal audit work plans.
the significant risks faced by the Group.
The processes have been The Groups risk management process is described on pages embedded into the fabric of the Group and have been in place for 47 to 48. the year under review and up to the date of approval of this annual report and financial statements.
The processes and procedures Going concern are regularly reviewed by the Board.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The role of in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather financial statements.
than eliminate the risk of failure of the achievement of business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A process of control self-assessment and hierarchical reporting has been established which provides for a documented and auditable trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across all Group operations: they provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
This process is facilitated by the Groups internal audit function, which also provides a degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal controls.
The internal audit function ensures that corrective action is taken to rectify any weaknesses.
