Audit Committee Report The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility for b the Internal Audit Charter and Strategy: overseeing the financial reporting and internal risk management c the Group Risk and Control Framework: control functions and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the Groups external auditors.
d the Group accounting policies: The Committee is charged with responsibility to the Board for e the scope of the function and the findings of internal audit satisfying itself, on behalf of the Board as a whole, that the reviews undertaken by  LLP and the financial affairs of the Group are conducted with openness, internal auditor: integrity and accountability and in accordance with such existing f Corporate Governance Reporting: statutory and regulatory provisions and codes as are applicable to the Group and to report on these matters to the Board.
g the fees for Ernst & Young LLP for 2008: Its duties are to: h the audit strategy for year end 2008 audit: consider the appointment, resignation or dismissal of the i the fraud and error guidelines contained in ISA240: and auditors and the level of audit fee: j the Group 'whistleblowing' policy.
discuss with the auditors the nature and scope of the audit: Both the Group internal auditor and  LLP review the draft interim and annual financial statements before undertake their activities in conjunction with the Groups usual submission to the Board for approval: peer group review process.
discuss any problems and reservations arising from the annual The Committee maintains a policy on the appointment and role audit and any matters the auditors may wish to raise: of the auditors.
This includes guidelines on their appointment discuss with the auditors the Groups system of internal financial which is subject to review at least every five years and on their controls and any auditors recommendations for improvement: ongoing work to ensure that the independence of the Groups consider the findings of internal investigations and auditors is not threatened, particularly by the provision of nonmanagements response: audit services.
Prior approval of the Committee is required where oversee the implementation of systems for financial control and the expected cost of non-audit services provided by the appointed risk management: external auditors is in excess of 75,000. pre-approve non-audit services provided by the auditor: The day-to-day implementation of the Committees policy is delegated to the group finance director who in turn monitors review the internal audit programme and its implementation: the business units to ensure that all engagements fall within the receive and review internal audit reports: and Committees guidelines.
Fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP in review treasury policy.
respect of audit and assurance services of 1.3m 2007: 1.6m and transaction support services of 0.2m 2007: 0.7m in The Committee also reviews the guidance issued by bodies respect of 2008 were approved by the Committee.
such as the Financial Reporting Council into the work of audit committees and incorporates any recommendations into The Group maintains a whistleblowing policy in line with the its working practices.
Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 to enable employees, on a confidential basis, to raise concerns internally in cases where they The chairman of the Committee is Stephen King.
During the year believe they have discovered malpractice or impropriety.
This is the other members of the Committee were Christopher Clarke, reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Complaints can be made either Michael Dearden and John Mogford, who joined the Committee to line managers or directly to the company secretary who will on 1 August 2008.
The secretary to the Committee is Alan appoint an investigating officer.
Action will be taken in cases Mitchelson.
In addition, the chief executive, group finance where the complaint is shown to be justified and at all times the director and the internal and external auditors also attend each complainant is informed of progress and outcomes.
The Board is satisfied that Stephen King has recent and the auditors Ernst & Young LLP can be brought in to review relevant financial experience.
The whistleblowing policy is The Committee has the ability to call on the Groups staff to published on the Group intranet.
assist in their work and also has access to independent advice.
The Committees terms of reference are available from the The chairman of the Committee receives additional remuneration company secretary on request and can also be found on the for his duties, details of which are set out on page 36.
Committee meets each January, March and August and at other times as appropriate.
During the March meeting the Committee undertakes a full review of the audit with the Groups auditors.
Stephen King There were three meetings in 2008.
In the course of 2008, Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committee discussed the following matters: Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board 10 March 2009 a operational issues identified by the auditors in both their audit and interim review: The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 31
