Corporate Governance Statement The Combined Code A formal process for evaluating the performance of the Board is The Company remains committed to the highest standards of undertaken annually.
This process is conducted internally based corporate governance and manages its affairs in accordance with on a detailed questionnaire completed by each director and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined individual and collective discussions.
Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 The evaluation examines the balance of skills of the directors, and appended to the Listing Rules.
During the 52 weeks ended the operation of the Board in practice including its corporate 26 December 2008, the Company complied with the Combined governance and the operation and content of board meetings.
This statement describes how the Company has The findings are used to assist the Board in its consideration of applied the Combined Code.
the opportunities for improvement in the performance of the The Board Board and its directors.
The Board comprises the chairman, chief executive, group finance During 2008, the Board also conducted an internal review of director, legal and commercial director and six non-executive the effectiveness of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration directors, all of whom are independent.
The Board meets regularly Committees incorporating a questionnaire covering such matters throughout the year with ad hoc meetings as necessary.
In the year as the role and organisation of each committee, meeting to 26 December 2008, the Board met seven times.
Meetings are arrangements, information provision and effectiveness.
Following held at the Companys head office in Glasgow, London at the time completion of these questionnaires by the members of each of the Companys annual and interim announcements and at committee, the chairman met with the respective chairmen of the operating locations.
The following table identifies the number Audit and Remuneration Committees to discuss the feedback.
The of board and committee meetings held during the past year results of this evaluation were reported to the Board and, where and the attendance record of individual directors.
areas for improvement had been identified, actions were agreed.
Committee Meetings Additionally, a one-to-one appraisal of all board members is Board Meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination undertaken annually, including the chairman, whose appraisal is No.
of meetings in year 73 54 carried out by the senior independent director, with input from other board members.
Lord Smith 74 2 Christopher Clarke 73 5 There is an agreed procedure for directors, where appropriate, Keith Cochrane 7 to take independent professional advice on any matter at the Michael Dearden 73 54 Companys expense.
The company secretary is responsible for Stephen King 73 ensuring that board procedures are followed and all directors have Alan Mitchelson 7 direct access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
1 John Mogford 41 The company secretary is also responsible for facilitating the Professor Ian Percy 754 induction and professional development of the board members 3 Lord Robertson 614 and information flows within the Board, its committees and Mark Selway 74 between the non-executive directors and senior management.
1 John Mogford was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2008 There is an agreed list of matters which requires to be authorised 2 Christopher Clarke retired as a director on 31 December 2008 by the Board, such as the approval of the Group strategic plan, 3 Lord Robertson was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2008 Group budget and risk management strategy.
Major acquisitions Directors appointed to the Board other than at an annual general and disposals, as well as major capital spend, are authorised by meeting of the Company are required to retire at the following the Board and are subsequently monitored by the Board after annual general meeting when they may offer themselves for execution.
The Board also approves the issue of full year and election.
One third of the remaining members of the Board interim reports.
or, where that number is not a whole number, the nearest lower All directors bring their own independent judgement to major whole number are required to retire by rotation, subject to all matters affecting the Group.
Each of the non-executive directors is directors submitting themselves for re-election at least once every considered by the Company to be independent.
In line with best practice under the Combined Code, his presence on the Board for a period of more than nine years, any director who has held office for more than six years is subject the Board considers Professor Percy, who continues to be a to a particularly rigorous review and any director who has held member of the Board and the Remuneration and Nomination office for more than nine years is required to submit himself for Committees, to be independent in character and judgement.
He brings a wealth of experience to the Boards deliberations and On joining the Board, directors are provided with documentation is considered to be free from any business or other relationship on the Company and its activities.
New directors are provided that could materially interfere with his independent judgement.
with an appropriate induction programme and, where appropriate, The views of executive directors are not limited to those site visits are arranged to major business units.
Ongoing training operational or functional areas for which directors have prime is provided as necessary.
Board and committee papers are sent to directors in sufficient time before meetings and any further back-up papers 28 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 and information are readily available to all directors on request to information on all aspects of business performance, managing the company secretary.
The chairman ensures that non-executive and minimising corporate risk and ensuring that the necessary directors are properly briefed on any issue arising at board mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional meetings and non-executive directors have access to the coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career chairman at any time.
It also approves major items of capital expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
The Group The roles of chairman and chief executive are separate.
The Operations Executive Committee meets each month.
Its chairmans primary role is to ensure that the Board is effective membership comprises the chief executive, group finance in its task of setting and implementing the Companys direction.
director, legal and commercial director and the three divisional The chief executive is responsible for management of the business managing directors.
In the year to 26 December 2008, the and developing the appropriate organisational structure for a Group Operations Executive Committee met 12 times.
The chief executive chairs the Group Operations Executive Committee.
General Administration Committee The principal duties of the General Administration Committee are The non-executive directors are independent of management.
to allot shares under the various share option schemes and other None of the non-executive directors has any material business or matters of a routine nature.
This Committee comprises the other relationship with the Company.
Each member of the Board executive members of the Board and meets as required.
has considerable experience at senior level in other companies, which allows for well informed and broadly based debate.
The Other committees Board structure ensures that no individual or group dominates The other board committees are the Audit Committee, the the decision-making process.
Professor Ian Percy has been Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee designated the senior independent director to whom any details of which are contained on pages 31 to 39. concerns can be conveyed.
Principles of business conduct The executive directors have contracts of service with one years As an international company, the Groups approach to notice, whilst non-executive directors are appointed on a maintaining high ethical standards is critical to its business rotational basis for periods of up to three years.
The Groups operating policies, which provide guidance in this area, have been communicated throughout the Group Directors conflicts of interests through its intranet.
A copy is available from the company Effective from 1 October 2008, a Director has had a statutory secretary.
These policies are reviewed on a regular basis.
duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, an interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Shareholders Company.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, The Company maintains regular dialogue with its institutional amended in 2008, a Director will not be in breach of that duty shareholders in the form of an investor relations programme.
if the relevant matter has been authorised by the other directors.
This includes regular update meetings and presentations with The new provision of the articles of association which include the major shareholders and industry analysts.
Feedback from these relevant authorisation for directors to approve such conflicts was presentations which is reported to the Board gives investors an agreed by a resolution of shareholders at the annual general opportunity to comment on the quality of the communications meeting held on 7 May 2008.
Prior to 1 October 2008, the Board they receive in their contact with the chief executive and group conducted a review of actual or possible conflicts of interest in finance director.
Attendees at the results presentations include respect of each director.
At its meeting in August 2008, the Board the chairman, the executive directors and the senior independent considered the guidance on conflicts generally and agreed on the director.
The Company also encourages communication with process that would be adopted for identifying and authorising private shareholders throughout the year and welcomes their conflicts.
They also authorised the conflicts that had been participation at shareholder meetings.
In addition to the chairmans identified as a result.
statement at the annual general meeting, a trading update to shareholders is given and details of the Companys trading activities Board committees are on display.
The directors attend the annual general meeting Where appropriate, matters are delegated to board committees, when the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination all of which have written terms of reference which are available on Committees are available to answer questions.
The date of the the Companys website.
The company secretary acts as secretary key publications in 2009 can be found on the Companys website.
Notice of the annual general meeting is sent to shareholders Group Operations Executive Committee at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company The Group Operations Executive Committee is responsible for conducts the vote at the annual general meeting by electronic ensuring that each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively poll and the result of the votes including proxies is published and that the operational objectives of the Group, as approved by on the Companys website after the annual general meeting.
Its role includes the preparation of the Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and maintaining reporting systems providing clear and consistent The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 29 Corporate Governance Statement Continued Communications taking account of the significant risks identified by the individual The Board considers that the annual report and financial statements units together with other group-wide risks.
The Group Risk and and interim statements present a balanced and understandable Control Framework is considered and adopted by the Board assessment of the Groups performance and prospects.
In addition which is responsible for the risk management strategy.
The system to information which any company is under a legal or regulatory of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate requirement to publish, the Group frequently publicises other the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only business developments through the national or specialised press provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material or in its own newspapers and bulletins which have wide circulation.
The Companys website at www.
co. uk provides additional The Board has monitored the effectiveness of the Groups system company information, is regularly updated and includes the of internal control during the year.
This is refined as necessary to presentations to shareholders given at the announcements of the meet changes in the Groups business and associated risks.
Regular full year and interim results.
The website also contains an online performance reports are provided to the Group Operations version of the notice of the annual general meeting, the annual Executive Committee and or the Audit Committee or the Board.
report and financial statements and the interim report.
Where weaknesses are identified, plans and timetables for addressing them are also reported.
Internal control In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, In addition to the Group Risk and Control Framework, other the Board ensures that there is an ongoing process for identifying, procedures which are fundamental to the Groups system of evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Group internal control are as follows: companies.
This process has been in place throughout 2008 and Control environment up until the date of this report, except that it did not apply to There is a clearly defined organisational structure within which the Groups material joint ventures.
As part of the integration individual responsibilities are identified and monitored.
Businesses programme, Weir Multiflo, Weir SOS, Weir Mesa and Weir Warman follow well understood procedures and are required to comply Africa became fully integrated into the Risk and Control Framework with them.
and the Group system of internal control during 2008.
The directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control Main control procedures and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board delegates to executive The Group has identified a number of key areas which are management the responsibility for designing, operating and subject to regular reporting to the Board.
These controls include monitoring both the system and the maintenance of effective procedures for seeking and obtaining approval for major internal control in each of the businesses which comprise the investments and transactions.
In addition, each operating company is responsible for Group-wide standards the operation of key internal controls and to formally assess the There are, for application throughout the Group, operating effectiveness of the internal control environment through the policies and a standards manual which set out policies and submission, twice yearly, of the compliance scorecard.
procedures with which all Group companies are required to An internal audit function is in place to review and challenge comply.
The manual is communicated to all Group operating the effectiveness of key internal controls and to suggest relevant companies through the Group intranet.
actions to address potential weaknesses.
The internal audit review The managing directors are responsible for ensuring that each programme is based on a risk based approach that helps to company observes and implements the policies and procedures prioritise resource upon the areas of perceived greatest risk to set out in the manual which was updated progressively the Group.
This process is supplemented by a number of peer during 2008. reviews that seek to further monitor and evaluate the process of internal control and share best practice around the Group.
Information systems There is a comprehensive budgeting system in place with an Internal audit and peer review reports are provided to the annual budget approved by the Board.
Management information Group Operations Executive Committee as well as to the Audit systems provide directors with relevant and timely reports that Committee which considers and determines relevant action in identify significant deviations from approved plans and include respect of any control issues raised.
regular re-forecasts for the year.
As part of the control framework, each Group operating company The Groups internal control procedures described in this section and business prepares a Risk and Control Framework for their have not been extended to cover its interests in joint ventures.
As part of this process, the operating The Group has board representation on each of its joint venture companies prepare a report identifying the relative probability companies where separate systems of internal control have and severity of the risks identified, the process for managing been adopted.
and mitigating these risks and the means by which management might be assured that the processes are effective.
These frameworks are considered and approved by the chief executive, group finance director and the Group Operations Executive Committee.
In addition, a Group Risk and Control Framework is prepared, 30 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008
