CORPORATE GOvERnAnCE The Board of the Company is committed to achieving the All newly appointed directors receive induction training on highest standards of corporate governance.
The principal joining the Board which is tailored to meet the needs of the governance rules applying to UK companies listed on individual and the need for director training is regularly the London Stock Exchange with accounting periods assessed by the Board.
beginning before 29 June 2008 are contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by The Board carried out a formal evaluation of its performance the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code.
Each director completed an extensive The Board confirms that the Company has, except as questionnaire covering Board and Committee procedures described at the end of this report, applied the principles and effectiveness and their own contribution to discussions and complied with the provisions of the Code throughout and decision making.
The non-executive directors met the financial year ended 31 August 2008. separately to review the Chairmans performance and provided feedback to him and the Chairman reviewed the contribution of each of the directors in separate individual THE BOARd sessions.
The results of the evaluation were reported to the On 9 October 2008, the Board comprised the Chairman, two Board in October 2008.
The Board found this to be an open, executive directors and four independent non-executive constructive and useful exercise and the review concluded directors.
Short biographies of each of the directors, which that the Board is effective.
illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 24.
There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the The Companys Articles of Association require that directors Company: Robert Walker Chairman being responsible for offer themselves for re-election every three years and that running the Board and Kate Swann Group Chief Executive new directors appointed by the Board offer themselves being responsible for implementing group strategy.
John for election at the next Annual General Meeting following Barton has been nominated by the Board as the Senior their appointment.
The Board structure ensures that no individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
BOARd COmmiTTEES All of the non-executive directors who served during the year Audit Committee and up to the date of this report meet the independence The Audit Committee is chaired by Mike Ellis, who has criteria set out in the Code.
John Barton has served on the recent and relevant financial experience, and its other Board for nine years.
The Chairman conducted a thorough members are John Barton, Drummond Hall and Luke review with John Barton to assess his independence and Mayhew, all of whom are independent non-executive contribution to the Board and confirmed that he continues directors.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman to be an effective independent non-executive director.
of the Board, the Finance Director, the Internal Audit Director and representatives of the external auditors The Board met nine times during the year.
The Board regularly attend meetings.
The Committee has regular manages the Company through a formal schedule of private meetings with the external auditors during the matters reserved for its decision.
The Committees principal responsibilities cover management of the Company: approval of strategic internal control and risk management, internal audit, plans including acquisitions and disposals: approval of external audit including auditor independence and the Companys commercial strategy and operating and financial reporting.
capital expenditure budgets: approval of the financial statements, material agreements and non-recurring The Committee met four times during the year and projects: treasury policy: control, audit and risk its activities included: a review of the preliminary and management: remuneration: and, corporate interim announcements, Annual Report and Financial responsibility.
It also delegates specific responsibilities Statements, the consideration of reports from the external to the Board Committees detailed below, the role and auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental issues responsibilities of each Committee being set out in requiring its attention: approval of audit plans for the formal terms of reference which are available on the external and internal auditors: considering reports from Companys website and from the Company Secretary the Internal Audit Director on the results of internal audit on request.
reviews, significant findings, management action plans and timeliness of resolution: reviewing reports on the All directors have access to the advice and services of the Companys risk management process: reviewing Company Secretary and may take independent professional management of fraud risk and incidences of fraud: advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their reviewing the Companys Business Continuity Plans: duties.
The Board receives appropriate and timely and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys information, Board and Committee papers normally being whistleblowing process.
sent out several days before meetings take place.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website and from the Company Secretary on request.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 30 nominations Committee Attendance at Board Committee meetings The Nominations Committee is chaired by Robert Walker The following table shows the number of Board and and its other members are John Barton, Mike Ellis, Committee meetings held during the year ended 31 August Drummond Hall, Luke Mayhew and Kate Swann.
The 2008 and the attendance record of individual directors.
Committees principal responsibility is to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place for the nomination, Committee meetings Board selection and succession of directors and senior meetings Audit Nominations Remuneration executives.
MT Rainey served as a member of the No.
of meetings 9 4 4 5 Committee until her retirement as a director on Robert Walker 9 4 4 5 31 January 2008.
Kate Swann 9 4 5 Alan Stewart 9 4 The Committee met four times during the year and its John Barton 9 4 4 5 activities included: a review of the Companys succession Mike Ellis 9 4 2 1 plans: discussion in respect of the ongoing shape and Luke Mayhew 8 4 5 capability of the Board: and the appointment of MT Rainey 6 2 3 Drummond Hall as a director of the Company.
resigned 31.01.08 The appointment of Drummond Hall on 1 September Mike Ellis was appointed as a member of the Remuneration and 2008 was made following a search conducted by external Nominations Committees on 31 January 2008. consultants and recommendations made by the Drummond Hall was appointed as a director of the Company on 1 September 2008.
The Board, prior to appointing Drummond Luke Mayhew was appointed as a member of the Nominations Hall, reviewed his other commitments and these are Committee on 4 September 2008. disclosed on page 24.
The Board has met twice since 31 August 2008 and all The Committees terms of reference are available on the directors attended both meetings.
In addition, the the Companys website and from the Company Secretary Remuneration Committee has met twice and the Audit on request.
Committee and the Nominations Committee have met once since 31 August 2008.
These meetings were Remuneration Committee attended by all committee members.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by John Barton and its other members are Mike Ellis, Drummond Hall, RiSk mAnAGEmEnT And inTERnAL COnTROLS Luke Mayhew, and Robert Walker.
MT Rainey served as a The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys member of the Committee until her retirement as a director system of internal control and for reviewing its on 31 January 2008.
At the invitation of the Committee, effectiveness, whilst the role of management is to the Group Chief Executive and representatives of Mercer implement the Boards policies on risk and control and Limited, its external independent adviser, regularly attend provide assurance on compliance with these policies.
The Committee met five times during the year.
continue to be taken to embed internal control and risk The Committees principal responsibility is to determine management further into the operations of the business and recommend to the Board the remuneration of executive and to deal with areas of improvement which come to the directors and the Chairman.
The Committee monitors attention of management and the Board.
Such a system the levels and structure of remuneration for senior is, however, designed to manage rather than eliminate the management and seeks to ensure that they are designed risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only to attract, retain and motivate the executive directors to provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against run the Company successfully.
The remuneration of the material misstatement or loss.
non-executive directors is determined by the Chairman and the executive directors.
i Risk The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 34 to 41 as The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Committees terms of reference are available faced by the Company including those risks relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process on the Companys website and from the Company Secretary on request.
was in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and meets the requirements of the guidance entitled Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code produced by the Financial Reporting Council the Guidance.
The Audit Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of the system of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WH Smith PLC 31 CORPORATE GOvERnAnCE COnTinuEd The key features of the risk management process the Board has established an organisational structure are as follows: with clearly defined lines of responsibility and approval controls identifying transactions requiring approval by The business conducts an annual risk assessment the Board or by the Approvals Committee.
The Finance based on identified business objectives which are Director is responsible for the functional leadership reviewed and agreed by the Retail Executive and development of the Companys finance activities: Committee.
Risks are categorised into strategic, operational, financial and compliance and are there is a comprehensive system for budgeting evaluated in respect of their potential impact and and planning and for monitoring and reporting likelihood.
These risk assessments are updated and the performance of the Companys business to reviewed quarterly by the Group and business risk the directors.
Monthly results are reported against committees and are reported to the Retail Executive budget and prior year, and forecasts for the current Committee and the Audit Committee.
financial year are regularly revised in the light of actual performance.
These cover profits, cash flows, A Company risk assessment is also undertaken by the capital expenditure and balance sheets: internal audit function, which considers all areas of potential risk across all systems, functions and key the Company has established a uniform system business processes.
This risk assessment together of investment appraisal: with the business risk assessment forms the basis for determining the internal audit plan.
Audit reports in executive management has defined the financial relation to areas reviewed are discussed and agreed controls and procedures with which each business is with the business risk committees and Audit Committee.
Key controls over major business risks include reviews against performance indicators The internal audit team meets annually with senior and exception reporting and the business is required executives in order to complete a formal certification to prepare monthly management accounts: and of the effectiveness of internal controls.
These reports are submitted to the business risk committees.
routine reports are prepared to cover treasury activities Certificates are also provided by the risk committees and risks, for review by senior executives, and annual to the Audit Committee, to assist the Board in conducting reports are prepared for the Board and Audit Committee its annual review of internal controls in compliance covering treasury policies, insurance and pensions.
b Non-financial controls ii internal controls The Company has established a wide range of nonfinancial controls covering areas such as health and a Financial controls safety, environment, ethical trading, employment and The Company has an established framework of internal business continuity, the effectiveness of which is regularly financial control, the effectiveness of which is regularly reviewed by the executive management and the Board.
reviewed by the executive management and the Board.
The key elements are as follows: The key elements of this are as follows: a corporate responsibility strategy was approved by the the Board is responsible for overall Company strategy, Board, including objectives and targets to address the for approving revenue and capital budgets and plans, impacts that our activities have on the environment, for approving major acquisitions and disposals and for workplace, marketplace and community: determining the financial structure of the Company including treasury and dividend policy.
Monthly results, clear accountability for corporate responsibility issues variances from plan and forecasts are reported to has been defined at Board and operational level: the Board: annual updates are submitted to the Board on each the Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge aspect of corporate responsibility: of its duties regarding the Companys financial statements, accounting policies and the maintenance of proper the Board is committed to maintaining high standards internal business, operational and financial controls.
of health and safety in all its business activities.
These The Committee provides a direct link between the Board standards are set out in the Companys Health and and the external auditors through regular meetings: Safety Policy which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Risk Management team works with the business to the internal audit function advises and assists business assess health and safety risks and introduce systems management to establish and maintain adequate to mitigate them.
All notified accidents are investigated financial controls and reports to the Audit Committee and targets are set to reduce the level of incidence: on the effectiveness of those controls: WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 32 the Board has approved an Environmental Policy and Shareholders vote on each resolution on a show of hands, sets environmental objectives and specific targets unless a poll is validly called, and after each such vote the which are reviewed annually: number of proxy votes received for, against, and withheld is announced.
The proxy figures are made available in writing the Board is committed to ensuring reasonable at the end of the meeting, announced to the London Stock standards among its suppliers and has approved an Exchange and published on the Companys website.
Ethical Trading Code of Conduct setting out the standards it expects its suppliers to adopt.
This policy The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and covers health and safety, child labour, working hours, concerns of major shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive discrimination and the environment: and Group Finance Director update the Board following meetings with major shareholders and analysts briefings the Company is committed to ensuring that its are circulated to the Board.
When requested to do so, the personnel meet good standards of integrity and Chairman and non-executive directors attend meetings competence.
The Companys systems cover the with major shareholders.
recruitment, training and development of personnel, an appropriate division of responsibilities and the COmPLiAnCE WiTH THE COmBinEd COdE communication of Company policies and procedures Throughout the year ended 31 August 2008 the Company throughout the organisation: and has complied with the Code, except as follows: Business Recovery Plans exist to enable the business A7.1 Re-appointment of directors.
Prior to the adoption to continue in the event of a disaster with minimum of the new Articles on 31 January 2008, the Articles disruption to customers.
provided that at the first three annual general meetings following the demerger on 31 August 2006, one third of AudiTOR indEPEndEnCE the directors shall retire from office but shall be eligible The Board is satisfied that Deloitte & Touche LLP has for re-appointment.
This provision was included in the adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that Articles, as a result of the demerger, to provide an even auditor objectivity and independence is maintained.
The spread of director re-appointments.
Board has also adopted a formal policy on the Companys relationship with its auditor in respect of non-audit work.
The auditors may only provide such services provided that such advice does not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
The Audit Committee Chairmans pre-approval is required before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out in the policy.
The fees paid to the Auditors in respect of non-audit services are shown in Note 3 to the Accounts.
RELATiOnS WiTH SHAREHOLdERS The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is understood.
This is achieved principally through the annual report and accounts and the AGM.
In addition, a range of corporate information, including all Company announcements and presentations, is available to investors on the Companys website, www.
Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders following the announcement of the Companys full year and interim results.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All directors normally attend the AGM and are available to answer any questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Those shareholders who have elected to receive electronic communications receive notice of the availability of the annual report on the Companys website.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WH Smith PLC 33
