Index Directors Report and Accounts 2007 8 7 Corporate governance report The Company is committed to high are considered and approved by the Is there clarity between the roles of standards of corporate governance.
Board, ultimately, they are voted on by the Chairman and Chief Executive?
In this report Simon Barratt, General shareholders.
There is a clear written division of Counsel, explains how the main and responsibility between the Chairman supporting principles of the Combined The Board is of the opinion that it is of and Chief Executive.
Code on Corporate Governance are being an appropriate size for the requirements applied on a daily basis.
of the business, it has the appropriate The Chairman is responsible for: balance of skills, knowledge and Who is on the Companys Board experience and that it has a good running the Board and setting its agenda: of directors?
balance between executive and The Board currently consists of the independent non-executive directors.
ensuring, through the General Chairman, two executive directors and Counsel, that the members of the five independent non-executive directors.
How does the Board operate and Board receive accurate, timely and Profiles of each director can be found on what are its key responsibilities?
clear information and that there is pages 24 to 25 of the Annual Review.
the Board met 12 times last year.
Before a good flow of information: each Board meeting directors are given How did the Company arrive at the timely and appropriate information, managing the Board to ensure that conclusion that five of its directors including monthly financial and sufficient time is allowed for the are independent?
The attendance records discussion of complex or contentious The Combined Code lists a number of individual directors can be found in issues: of circumstances that might call the table on page 10: the independence of a director into ensuring that the directors continually question.
The Board is satisfied that no all members of the Board take update their knowledge and capabilities: such circumstances exist for any of the collective responsibility for the Companys non-executive directors.
performance of the Company and ensuring that the members of the all decisions are taken objectively in Board develop an understanding of the What are the terms of appointment for the interests of the Company and its views of the major investors: and independent non-executive directors?
shareholders: Independent non-executive directors are the annual evaluation of the initially appointed for a three-year term a schedule of matters reserved to performance of the Board and its and may, under normal circumstances, the Board includes the oversight committees and implementing serve up to three such three-year of key aspects of strategy and the action required following such terms.
Their letters of appointment are management, financial reporting evaluation.
available for inspection at the Companys and controls, the management of registered office.
shareholder communication, as well The Chief Executive is responsible for: as the approval of policies and major How is the structure and membership transactions.
The schedule can be setting the strategic direction for the of the Board determined?
seen in full on the Companys website: Company: Ultimately the Companys shareholders www.
co. uk: determine Board membership at the overseeing the day-to-day AGM.
All new directors are required to the Board oversees and approves management of the Company: stand for election at the AGM following the Companys overall strategy and their appointment and existing directors ensures that the necessary resources the line management of senior must stand for re-election by rotation are in place in order to meet the executives: in accordance with the Articles of Companys objectives: and Association.
the activities of the Whitbread the Board has responsibility for ensuring Directors Forum a group of over The Nomination Committee is that the Companys obligations to its 40 of the Companys most senior responsible for reviewing the structure shareholders are met.
executives: and and membership of the Board, and for making recommendations to the ensuring effective communication Board.
After these recommendations with shareholders and employees.
co. uk annualreport0708 Index Corporate governance 8 How is the Boards performance During the year directors attended Where can I find details of the evaluated?
training courses and seminars, or Companys compliance with the The performance of the Board, and received tailored training, on a number Combined Code in relation to individual directors contributions to of relevant issues.
the Board, is appraised annually by the Details of how Whitbread has applied Chairman.
This year: How does the Board interact with the the main and supporting principles Companys shareholders?
of the Combined Code with regard each director completed a formal The Company recognises the importance to remuneration can be found in the questionnaire on the Boards of dialogue with both institutional and remuneration report on pages 11 to performance: private shareholders.
In addition, the table on page 10 contains details of the membership the Chairman met each director on Institutional shareholders, fund and activities of the Remuneration a one-to-one basis: and managers and analysts are briefed at Committee.
the results of the review were Regular meetings were held with What board committees does the discussed by the Board and an institutional shareholders during the Company have?
appropriate action plan was agreed.
year, either one-to-one or as part of a The table on page 10 contains larger grouping, both in the UK and information relating to the Audit The performance of the Boards abroad.
Committee, the Nomination Committee committees was reviewed during the and the Remuneration Committee.
year in line with their terms of reference.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director play an active part in these meetings.
In addition to these three committees The performance of the Chairman was Non-executive directors are offered the the Board has delegated authority to evaluated during the year by Rod Kent, opportunity to attend the meetings the General Purposes Committee to deal the Senior Independent Director, who and would attend if required by major with business of a routine nature and discussed the Chairmans performance shareholders.
other specific matters delegated to it by with each of the directors.
The committee is made up of of the review were given directly to the Recent topics of interest to investors at least two directors designated by the Chairman by Rod Kent.
have been: Board and meets as required.
How does the Company ensure that organic growth plans: The following groups also meet: new directors are given the tools capital structure: and to do an effective job?
the Main Board Committee MBC The General Counsel is responsible comprises the executive directors for ensuring that, on appointment, Annual and interim results presentations together with the General Counsel, the new directors are given a formal are webcast live so that all shareholders Group Human Resources Director and and individually tailored induction.
can receive the same information at the Managing Directors of Whitbread In the case of newly appointed nonthe same time.
The Companys website Hotels and Restaurants WHR and executive directors, this would typically provides comprehensive information for Costa.
The MBC meets at least monthly include a number of visits to the private shareholders.
in preparation for Board meetings: Companys outlets to enable a thorough understanding of the businesses.
New Private shareholders have the the WHR Management Board meets directors are available to meet major opportunity to put questions to the monthly to consider issues affecting shareholders if requested.
Board at the AGM, and at all other times Premier Inn and the Groups pub by emailing or writing to the Company.
It is attended by the Do the directors have access to executive directors, the General Counsel independent advice?
Any shareholder may contact the and the Group Human Resources All directors have access to independent Chairman or Chief Executive to raise Director together with Patrick Dempsey, professional advice at the Companys any issue, including those relating to Managing Director of WHR, and the expense.
In addition, directors have strategy and governance.
Alternatively, rest of the WHR management team: and access to the General Counsel.
shareholders may raise any such issue with one or all of the non-executive the Costa Management Board meets Do the directors update their knowledge directors of the Company.
The General monthly to consider issues relating to and skills on a regular basis?
Counsel can facilitate any such the management of Costas coffee store The Board receives a regular investor communication if requested.
It is attended by the executive relations report which includes share directors, the General Counsel and price performance, movements in the Group Human Resources Director, institutional holdings and the response together with John Derkach, Managing by institutions to the communications Director of Costa, and the rest of the programme.
Index Directors Report and Accounts 2007 8 9 How does the Company seek to ensure Key elements of the Groups risk Do the members of the Audit Committee that its employees behave with honesty management and internal control have recent and relevant financial and integrity?
The Company takes the view that The Board is satisfied that at least one corporate governance is not a matter the formulation, evaluation and member of the Audit Committee has for the Board or its committees alone annual approval by the Board of recent and relevant financial experience and has developed a Code of Business business plans and budgets.
Actual but has determined not to identify any Ethics, which is briefed to all employees.
results are reported monthly against individual as having such experience.
This covers dealings with customers, budget and the previous years figures.
suppliers and government officials: Key risks are identified and action Has the Company formally reviewed safeguarding the Companys assets: plans prepared accordingly: its corporate governance performance keeping accurate and reliable records: during the year?
and avoiding conflicts of interest.
Its the production by each business of The General Counsel produced a review principal message is that all employees a risks and controls matrix, covering of the Companys corporate governance must observe a code of conduct based on major risks and plans to mitigate procedures, which was considered by the honesty, integrity and fair dealing.
These matrices are Board in January 2008.
The Board agreed considered by the Audit Committee: that the Company was in compliance In addition the Company has a formal with the Combined Code at the date of policy under which employees are able a regular review by the Board of the review.
to speak to an independent organisation changes in the major risks facing about any significant financial or control the Group and development of Has the Company complied throughout issues.
Issues would then be brought to appropriate action plans: the year with the provisions of the the attention of the Chief Executive and Combined Code?
Company Secretary and reported to the the consideration of risks and The Company complied throughout Audit Committee.
appropriate action plans, when the year with the provisions set out in appraising and approving all Section 1 of the Combined Code.
What is the Companys financial major capital and revenue projects reporting policy?
A post The Board always strives to present completion review of each major a balanced and understandable project is undertaken: assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
This involves formal financial policies, controls and reports such as this, other price sensitive procedures manuals, which are public reports, reports to regulators regularly reviewed and updated: and any other information required by statute.
the limits of authority, which are prescribed for employees.
Whitbreads Simon Barratt Does the Company maintain adequate organisational structure allows the General Counsel systems of internal control?
appropriate segregation of tasks: The Board is responsible for the Groups 27 April 2008 systems of internal control and for the Code of Business Ethics, which is reviewing their effectiveness.
These communicated to employees: systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure the operational audit function, to achieve business objectives.
They which reports on the effectiveness can only provide reasonable, and not of operational and financial controls absolute, assurance against material across the Group: and misstatement or loss.
the Audit Committee regularly The Board has established an ongoing reviews the major findings from process for identifying, evaluating and both operational and external audit.
managing the Groups significant risks.
Further details can be found in the This process was in place throughout the table on page 10.
2007 8 financial year and up to the date of this report.
The process is regularly The Board has carried out a specific reviewed by the Board and accords assessment of the Groups systems of with the internal control guidance for internal control for the purpose of this directors in the Combined Code.
The Audit Committee has assisted the Board in discharging these responsibilities.
co. uk annualreport0708 Index Corporate governance 10 Attendance at meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 12 3 2 2 in the year Anthony Habgood 12 2 2 Alan Parker 12 2 1 Angie Risley 3 Christopher Rogers 12 Philip Clarke 9 1 2 Margaret Ewing 5 2 1 1 Charles Gurassa 12 3 2 2 Rod Kent 11 2 2 3 Simon Melliss 10 2 4 Wendy Becker 2 1 Angie Risley resigned from the Board on 22 May 2007.
Three Board meetings were held up to that date.
2 Margaret Ewing resigned from the Board on 31 July 2007.
Five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, one Remuneration Committee meeting and one Nomination Committee meeting were held up to that date.
3 Simon Melliss was appointed as a director on 1 April 2007.
Eleven Board meetings and two Audit Committee meetings were held after that date.
4 Wendy Becker was appointed as a director on 18 January 2008.
Two Board meetings were held after that date.
No Audit Committee or Remuneration Committee meetings were held after that date.
Board committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Simon Melliss Anthony Habgood Charles Gurassa Members of Charles Gurassa Charles Gurassa Philip Clarke Committee Wendy Becker Alan Parker Anthony Habgood Stephen Williams Wendy Becker Stephen Williams Summary of key The Committee dealt with: The Committee discussed: The Committee dealt with: issues addressed during the year Group and brand the appointment of remuneration of the internal controls and Wendy Becker to the executive directors: risk management: Board: changes to the approval of financial the search for new operation of the statements for the full independent nonLeadership Group and half year: executive directors: and Incentive Scheme: and review of the the appropriate changes to the effectiveness of the composition of the operation of the Long internal and external Board.
audit functions: auditors independence: and operational audit plans and outcome of reviews.
The full terms of reference of all three committees were reviewed during the year and can be found on the Companys website.
They are also available by requesting a copy in writing from the General Counsel.
Stephen Williams was appointed to these committees after the end of the financial year.
