Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information Report of the Nomination Committee Membership and meetings Main activities during 2008 Set out below is the current During the year, the committee membership of the Nomination made recommendations to the Committee, together with the year Board regarding its size, structure and in which membership commenced.
All members of the committee are independent non-executive directors During 2008, the committee also: and the committee is chaired by recommended to the Board that the Board Chairman.
Ralph Topping be appointed Chief Executive of the Company: Director Year of appointment recommended to the Board that to the committee Ashley Highfield be appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Charles Scott, Chairman 2002 Company: David Allvey 2002 reviewed and approved extensions Barry Gibson 2002 to the contracts for the nonDavid Edmonds 2007 executive directors: approved the directors who would The Company Secretary, or one offer themselves for re-election at of the committee members, acts the 2008 AGM in accordance with as secretary to the Committee.
the Articles of Association: and approved the Report of the The committee meets as necessary Nomination Committee contained and, if possible, before or after in the Annual Report and Accounts.
regular meetings of the Board.
The committee met formally on two occasions during 2008.
Role of the Nomination Committee A full copy of the terms of reference for the committee can be obtained via the Groups corporate website www.
co. uk or by request to the Company Secretary.
Its principal function is to carry out a formal selection process for executive and non-executive directors and subsequently to propose to the Board any new appointments.
The Nomination Committee oversees succession planning for directors and senior managers below Board level.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee reports to the Board on the outcome of meetings.
William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 43
