Governance Statement on Corporate Governance The directors are committed to high The Board The Board considers that its primary standards of corporate governance The Chairman, Senior Independent role is to provide leadership to the and this statement sets out how the Non-Executive Director and other Group, to set the Groups long-term Board has applied the principles set directors, including those considered strategic objectives and to develop out in the Combined Code on by the Board to be independent, are robust corporate governance and risk Corporate Governance published in listed on page 25.
Details of Board management practices.
The Schedule June 2006 the Code and identifies, and committee attendance are listed of Matters Reserved to the Board and and provides an explanation for, any below.
Mr Highfield was appointed delegated authorities are reviewed non-compliance with the Codes to the Board on 17 November 2008. and approved by the Board annually.
Appropriate insurance cover is in Matters reserved to the Board include, place in respect of legal action among others: Compliance with the against directors.
setting the overall direction, longCodes provisions term objectives and strategy of the During the year, the Company has The Board operates within a formal Group and delegating day-to-day complied with the provisions of the schedule of matters reserved to it, management to the Chief Executive: Code, with the exception that the which is regularly reviewed.
Other reviewing Group performance: roles of Chairman and Chief Executive powers are delegated to the various reviewing the arrangements in were combined between 2 January Board committees and senior place relating to regulatory and 2008 and 20 February 2008 while the management.
Details of the roles and industry issues: process to appoint a new Chief responsibilities of the Board committees approving the appointment and Executive was ongoing.
are set out on pages 28, 43, 44 and 46. removal of any Board member Papers for Board and committee and the Company Secretary: meetings are circulated in advance of the relevant meeting and where a director is unable to attend he continues to be provided with a full copy of the papers and has the opportunity to comment on the matters to be discussed.
Board Corporate Audit and Risk Responsibility and Management Regulated Issues Nomination Remuneration Scheduled Ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Number of 12 6 6 2 2 6 meetings held Meetings attended Charles Scott 12 6 N A 2 2 N A David Allvey 12 6 6 N A 2 6 David Edmonds 12 5 6 2 2 5 Barry Gibson 12 5 5 N A 2 6 Ashley Highfield 2 N A N A 1 N A N A Simon Lane 12 6 N A N A N A N A Ian Spearing 12 5 N A 1 N A N A Ralph Topping 12 5 N A 2 N A N A Notes: 1 The Board held 12 scheduled meetings including an off-site Strategy Day, with senior managers during the year and six ad hoc meetings held to consider specific issues during the year.
2 With the exception of Mr Highfield, who was appointed a director on 17 November 2008, all other directors attended all of the 12 scheduled Board meetings.
The figures shown in the table include both attendances in person and by telephone.
William Hill 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information reviewing and approving the terms During the year, the Chairman met The directors aim is to ensure that of reference of the various Board with the non-executive directors the balance of the Board reflects committees and receiving reports without the executive directors being the changing needs of the from committee chairmen on a present and, as part of the process Groups business.
regular basis: to appraise the Chairmans approving changes to the performance, the Senior Independent The Nomination Committee and Groups capital structure any Non-Executive Director met with the Board will continue to monitor significant acquisitions and Mr Allvey and Mr Edmonds.
the Board balance and skills at disposals capital investment least annually.
projects and material contracts: Chairman and Chief Executive approval of the Groups annual plan, Ralph Topping was appointed Chief During the period between 2 January Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Executive on 21 February 2008.
Since 2008 and 20 February 2008, the Board Report and Interim Management that date, there has been a clear comprised three independent nonStatements, and setting of the division of responsibilities between the executive directors and four executive Groups dividend policy: roles of Chairman and Chief Executive, directors, including the Chairman approval of the Groups whereby the Chairman is responsible temporarily holding an executive role.
charitable donations and for the running of the Board and the In respect of the period, between Group-wide CR policies: Chief Executive is the executive 21 February 2008 and 16 November undertaking reviews of Board, responsible for the running of the 2008 when Charles Scott reverted to committee and individual director business.
Prior to 21 February 2008, non-executive Chairman, the Board performance at least annually: and the Chairman also assumed the role comprised three executive directors succession planning for senior of Chief Executive following the and four non-executive directors.
management and the Board resignation of David Harding on Following the appointment of Ashley on the recommendation of 28 September 2007.
Highfield on 17 November 2008, there the Nomination Committee.
The Senior Independent NonDuring the period between 2 January The authority delegated to senior Executive Directors main role is 2008 and 30 December 2008, the management provides a practical to satisfy the function outlined in Company satisfied the Code framework to executive management, the Code of being available to requirements that at least half the which seeks to achieve the dual shareholders if there are concerns Board, excluding the Chairman, objectives of maintaining effective that normal contact has failed to should comprise non-executive financial and operational controls resolve, to lead the process for directors determined by the Board while providing sufficient flexibility evaluating the Chairmans to be independent.
Examples performance and to chair the of areas of such delegated authority Nomination Committee when it Appointments to the Board are the include: the release of capital is considering succession to the responsibility of the full Board, on the expenditure against approved role of chairman.
recommendation of the Nomination budgets: treasury activity within Committee.
On joining the Board, approved limits: payroll processing: No one individual has unfettered non-executive directors receive a property transactions: LBO powers of decision-making.
formal appointment letter, which development activities: the setting identifies the time commitment of bet acceptance limits: and Mr Scott satisfied the independence expected of them.
A potential director routine transaction processing.
3.1 candidate is required to disclose all of the Code on his appointment significant outside commitments prior The Board comprises individuals with as Chairman and details of his other to appointment and the Board has wide business experience gained in significant commitments are set approved a policy requiring disclosure various sectors of industry and in the out on page 25. and approval by the Board of all public sector.
They have access to all additional appointments for executive information relating to the Group, the Board balance, independence or non-executive directors.
The terms advice and services of the Company and appointments and conditions of appointment of Secretary who is responsible for During the year, the Nomination non-executive directors and service ensuring that Board procedures are Committee and the Board reviewed contracts of executive directors are followed and is also the Companys the structure, size and composition available to shareholders for inspection General Counsel and, as required, of the Board together with an at the Groups registered office during external advice at the expense of evaluation of the Boards balance normal business hours and at the AGM the Group.
of skills, knowledge and experience, for 15 minutes prior to the meeting the membership of the various Board and during the meeting.
committees and the expected time commitment and policy for multiple Board appointments for executive and non-executive directors.
William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39 Governance Statement on Corporate Governance Information and Performance evaluation that their performance continues professional development A process of performance evaluation to be effective and to demonstrate The Board receives detailed reports of the Board, its committees and commitment to their relevant role.
from executive management on the directors is undertaken on an annual Their re-election is also consistent performance of the Group at monthly basis and the process undertaken with the Boards evaluation of the board meetings and other information for 2008 involved the following: size, structure and composition of as necessary, and senior management the four Board committees the Board.
regularly make presentations to the conducting a review of their terms Board on their areas of responsibility.
of reference and continuing to Remuneration Regular updates are provided on assess committee performance: The Directors Remuneration Report relevant legal, corporate governance one-to-one meetings being held is set out on pages 28 to 37. and financial reporting developments between the Chairman and each and directors are encouraged to director to assess individual director Relations with shareholders attend external seminars on areas performance and to allow any other The Board remains committed to of relevance to their role.
The Board issues to be raised: and maintaining good relationships has approved an information and an assessment by the Board of its with both institutional and private professional development policy own performance, with feedback shareholders.
There continues to be for directors.
to the Board from the chairman of a regular dialogue with institutional each committee and the Board, shareholders, although care is A formal induction programme has and the approval of action to exercised to ensure that any pricebeen developed by the Company address issues raised.
sensitive information is released at Secretary and approved by the the same time to all shareholders, Chairman.
A range of both general The Senior Independent Nonin accordance with the requirements and Group-specific information is Executive Director leads the process of the UK Listing Authority.
Slide provided in hard copy and this is for the evaluation of the Chairmans presentations provided to institutional supplemented by a series of meetings performance, involving discussions shareholders and analysts following with external advisers and employees.
with each other director, a meeting the publication of the Groups Induction programmes are in place for with the other independent nonpreliminary and interim results are appointment to the Board, the Audit executive directors and feedback made available on the Groups and Risk Management Committee, to the Chairman.
investor relations website, the Remuneration Committee and www.
co. uk, and the Corporate Responsibility and Re-election a recording of the results Regulated Issues Committee.
All directors are subject to election presentations can be accessed at the first AGM following their via telephone or webcast for a All directors have access to the appointment by the Board.
The period following the meeting.
advice and services of the Company Companys Articles of Association Secretary.
The removal and state that each year one third of The Chairman is available to discuss appointment of the Company directors should retire by rotation strategy and governance issues with Secretary is a matter reserved for but that if a director has, at the start shareholders and Mr Gibson, as the Board approval.
The Board also of the AGM, been a director for more Senior Independent Non-Executive obtains advice from professional than three years since his last reDirector, is available to shareholders if advisers as and when required.
In they have concerns that have not, or practice, this means that every cannot, be addressed through the director stands for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board explains the reasons why it believes each director should be elected or re-elected in the Notice of Meeting for the next AGM.
As referred to above, those directors who held office during the year have been subject to formal performance evaluation and the Board believes William Hill 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Board committees Internal control Finance Director.
Meetings between The Remuneration Committee, the The Board has overall responsibility for the Chairman, Chief Executive and or Nomination Committee, the Audit the Groups internal control systems the Group Finance Director and and Risk Management Committee and for monitoring their effectiveness.
shareholders have been held on and the Corporate Responsibility and Executive directors and senior request to discuss governance Regulated Issues Committee are management are responsible for the and corporate responsibility standing committees of the Board.
implementation and maintenance issues generally.
of the internal control systems, which The terms of reference of the are subject to yearly review that is The Group obtains feedback from committees, including their objectives documented.
The Internal Audit its broker, Citigroup, on the views of and the authority delegated to them department maintains a database institutional investors on a nonby the Board, are available upon recording the system of internal attributed basis and the Chief request or via the Groups corporate controls in every division and Executive and or Group Finance website www.
co. uk department throughout the Group.
Director communicate the issues and and are reviewed at least annually concerns of major shareholders to the by the relevant committee and the The Board monitors the ongoing Board.
As a matter of routine, the Board.
All committees have access process by which critical risks to the Board receives a monthly report from to independent expert advice.
business are identified, evaluated its brokers on issues relating to recent Appointments to Board committees and managed.
This process is consistent share price performance, trading are for three-year terms extendable with both the Turnbull Guidance on activity and institutional investor by no more than two additional Internal Control and the revised sentiment.
The Board also receives three-year terms.
guidance issued by the Financial copies of relevant analysts reports Reporting Council, and has been in on an ad hoc basis.
An Investor Audit and Risk Management place for the year under review and Relations manager was appointed Committee up to the date of approval of the during the year.
The role and operation of the Audit Annual Report and Accounts.
and Risk Management Committee is Each year, the Board assesses the The Board regards the AGM as set out in its report on pages 44 and 45. effectiveness of the Groups system of an important opportunity to internal controls including financial, communicate directly with all Nomination Committee operational and compliance controls shareholders.
Board members, The role and operation of the and risk management systems on including the chairmen of the Nomination Committee is set out the basis of: Remuneration, Nomination, Audit and in its report on page 43. established procedures, including Risk Management and Corporate those already described, which are Responsibility and Regulated Issues Remuneration Committee in place to manage perceived risks: Committees, attended the 2008 The role and operation of the regular reports by management to meeting and intend to attend the Remuneration Committee is set out the Audit and Risk Management forthcoming meeting and to be in the Directors Remuneration Report Committee on the adequacy and available to answer questions.
In order on pages 28 to 37. effectiveness of internal control that shareholders are aware of the systems and significant control issues: other shareholders voting intentions, Corporate Responsibility and the continuous Group-wide process the details of proxy votes for the Regulated issues Committee for formally identifying, evaluating meetings held in 2008 were Details of the membership and and managing the significant risks announced at the relevant general areas of key focus of the Corporate to the achievement of the Groups meeting and were made available Responsibility and Regulated objectives: and on the Groups website following the Issues Committee are set out in reports to the Audit and Risk meeting.
The website also contains the Corporate Responsibility Management Committee on the copies of the Notices of Meeting Report on pages 46 to 52. results of internal audit reviews and and explanatory notes.
A separate work undertaken by other resolution was proposed on each departments.
It is intended to continue with these The Groups internal control systems practices for 2009 and future are designed to manage, rather than shareholder meetings.
It is planned to post the Notice of the 2009 AGM to shareholders with the Annual Report and Accounts at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41 Governance Statement on Corporate Governance eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Assessment of risk Internal Audit the Groups objectives and can only A corporate risk matrix has been The Internal Audit department reviews provide reasonable, and not absolute, developed and has been updated the extent to which systems of internal assurance against material following detailed review by Internal control are effective, and adequate misstatement or loss.
In assessing what Audit and senior management to manage the Groups significant constitutes reasonable assurance, during the year.
The matrix is approved risks, safeguard the Groups assets, the Board considers the materiality annually by the Audit and Risk and in conjunction with the Company of financial and non-financial risks Management Committee and the Secretary who is also the Companys and the relationship between the Board.
The matrix records the key risks General Counsel, ensures compliance cost of, and benefit from, internal facing the business, the assessment with legal and regulatory requirements.
of the likelihood of the risks crystallising It provides independent and objective and their potential materiality, and assurance on risks and controls to the The Board regularly reviews the the Groups response to each risk.
actual and forecast performance Responsibility for management of of the business compared with the risks is attributed typically to Internal Audits work is focused on the annual plan, as well as other senior management.
areas of greatest risk to the Group, key performance indicators.
as determined by a structured The Board uses the control and risk risk assessment process involving Lines of responsibility and delegated management processes to identify executive directors and senior authorities are clearly defined.
The and manage any significant risks management.
The output from this Groups policies and procedures are arising from social, environmental and process is summarised in an annual regularly updated and distributed ethical issues.
Further details of the audit plan, which is approved by throughout the Group.
The Audit and Groups corporate responsibility the Audit and Risk Management Risk Management Committee practices are described on pages Committee.
The Head of Internal receives reports on a regular basis on 46 to 52.
Audit reports regularly to the Group compliance with the Groups policies Finance Director and the Audit and procedures.
No significant failings or weaknesses The role of the Internal Audit were identified as a result of the department and the scope of its work review of the effectiveness of the continue to evolve to take account Groups system of internal control.
of changes within the business and emerging best practice.
William Hill 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
