36 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Corporate governance report Combined code The Board has prepared this report with reference to the UK Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council as revised in June 2006.
Throughout 2007 08 the Group has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, with exceptions noted below, and applied the principles of the Code as described below.
In recent years, there have been significant developments in the Groups corporate governance structure.
Since the acquisition of Safeway in 2004 the composition of the Board has changed significantly.
Progress in the establishment of principles of best practice relating to governance has been and continues to be made.
During the year: membership to and the roles of the Executive Board, Property Board and Manufacturing & Distribution Boards were revised and formalised, the Group Marketing and Communications Director and Group HR Director were recruited to the top team, the Audit Committee has had regular reports on the status of internal control across the Group from the newly formed internal audit function.
Throughout 2007 08 the Group has complied with the Combined Code, except in the following areas: Combined code provisions Status Explanation A.
3.2 at least half the Board, At the beginning of the year there As reported last year, the Board is committed to excluding the Chairman, comprise was one more Executive Director ensuring that independent Non-Executive Directors independent Non-Executive Directors than Non-Executive Directors comprise at least half the Board during 2008 C. 3.1 at least one member of The current Audit Committee does This is being addressed as part of overall Board the Audit Committee has recent not have a member with recent composition and the previously reported relevant financial experience relevant financial experience arrangements remain in place to ensure the satisfactory operation of the Audit Committee.
C. 3.4 there are arrangements Comprehensive whistle-blowing Whistle-blowing procedures that include adequate in place for the staff to raise procedures did not exist throughout reporting to the Audit Committee were introduced concerns in confidence the period in February 2008 The Board programme of work to ensure further improvements in its a Membership effectiveness.
On 3 February 2008 the Board comprised a Chairman, five Executive This assessment was followed up with another evaluation carried Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
With the retirement of out in December 2007.
The Board conducted this evaluation without the Chairman and the planned recruitment of an additional Nonexternal assistance through the use of a questionnaire, based on Executive Director, at least half of the Board will ultimately comprise the independent assessment.
The questionnaires were sent to all of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Details of appointments, Directors and the responses were reviewed by the Chairman and roles and backgrounds are provided on page 34. the Company Secretary, and a report of findings was discussed On 1 September 2007, Sir Ian Gibson joined the Group as Nonby the Board.
The Board was satisfied with its performance and Executive Deputy Chairman.
With the assistance of the Chairman it was agreed that action would be taken in those areas for which and Company Secretary he has completed a period of induction it believed improved processes could be introduced.
where he met with the Directors and senior executives from across c Senior Independent Director the Group, and visited stores and other operations across the Paul Manduca as the Senior Independent Director SID is available business.
to shareholders as an alternative to the Chairman, CEO and the The role of the Deputy Chairman is a temporary role prior to Group Finance Director.
The SID ensures that he is available to meet succeeding Sir Ken Morrison as Chairman of the Group.
The division shareholders during the year and reports any relevant findings to of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO has been set the Board or Chairman.
He also chaired the Nomination Committee out in writing by the Board.
when it was considering the recruitment of the Deputy Chairman.
b Performance evaluation d Non-Executive Directors In February 2007, an independent assessment was conducted to The Non-Executive Directors provide a varied range of skills and evaluate the performance of the Board, its committees and its experience to the Group.
The Board is satisfied that Sir Ian Gibson Directors.
The results of this were presented to the Board in March was independent at the time of appointment and all other Non- 2007.
This confirmed that Board members felt that good progress Executive Directors remain independent as defined by the had been made, and that the Board was embracing the right Combined Code.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 37 has been employed by the Group within the last five years, considers the strategic development of the Groups manufacturing and distribution functions.
has had a material business relationship with the Group within the last three years, Committees of the Board The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration receives remuneration other than Directors fees, and Nomination Committees.
has close family ties with any of the Groups advisors, Directors Committee membership or senior employees, Name Nomination Audit Remuneration Marc Bolland X holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other Brian Flanagan X X X Directors through involvement in other companies or bodies, Sir Ian Gibson X X represents a significant shareholder, Paul Manduca X X X Sir Ken Morrison X has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Susan Murray X X X All Non-Executive Directors fulfilled the commitment of their Nigel Robertson X X X engagement letters to provide a minimum time commitment based The Directors attended the following numbers of Board and on one day per month attendance of meetings, attendance at the Committee meetings: Annual General Meeting AGM, Board away days and site visits, Board Nomination Audit Remuneration plus adequate preparation time.
No Non-Executive Directors hold Number of meetings 16 5 6 12 other positions that mean that they will not be able to fulfil these Marc Bolland 16 16 5 5 commitments or contribute to the governance and operations of Brian Flanagan 15 16 5 5 5 6 11 12 the Group.
Sir Ian Gibson 4 5 1 1 3 4 e Board responsibilities Mark Gunter 16 16 The Board is responsible for setting and approving the strategy and David Hutchinson 7 8 key policies of the Group, and for monitoring the progress towards Martyn Jones 13 14 achieving these objectives.
It monitors financial performance, Paul Manduca 15 16 5 5 6 6 9 12 critical operational issues and risks.
The Board also approves all Sir Ken Morrison 15 16 4 5 circulars, listing particulars, resolutions and correspondence to Susan Murray 16 16 5 5 6 6 12 12 the shareholders including the Annual report, half yearly financial Roger Owen 15 16 report and interim management statements.
The formal schedule Richard Pennycook 16 16 of matters reserved for the Board remains unaltered and further Nigel Robertson 14 16 5 5 4 6 10 12 details are available in the Investor Relations section of the Groups website www.
The Company Secretary organises the appropriate level of insurance cover for Directors to defend themselves against legal claims and Operating Boards civil actions.
The level of cover is currently 50m in aggregate.
The CEO has restructured the previous Executive Board and other Operating Boards into three bodies.
The CEO and the Group Finance a Nomination Committee Director are members of all the following: The current membership of the Nomination Committee is shown in the table above detailing Board and Board committee membership.
a Executive Board Sir Ian Gibson was appointed as a member on 17 September 2007.
The Executive Board comprises four Executive Directors who oversee the day-to-day direction of the retail business.
The Executive Board During the year, the Committee put forward, for approval by the has met 16 times through the year.
Examples of the matters brought Board, the appointment of Martyn Jones as Group Trading Director to the Executive Board include store and product performance, brand and Sir Ian Gibson as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
Martyn Jones management, food safety, marketing initiatives and the Groups was appointed to the Board on 8 March 2007, and Sir Ian Gibson on corporate social responsibilities.
1 September 2007. b Property Board The activities of the Committee are focused on recruiting a NonThe Property Board consists of four Executive Directors and has met Executive Director with recent and relevant financial experience.
This Board has oversight of the strategic The executive search agency, Egon Zehnder, is employed to identify development and operational management of the Groups property.
candidates which the Nomination Committee shortlists.
Interviews Matters brought to this Board include development of new stores are conducted by the Nomination Committee and meetings and facilities, refurbishments and extensions.
organised with other Executive Directors if appropriate, before a recommendation is made to the Board.
c Manufacturing & Distribution Board The Manufacturing & Distribution Board comprises two Executive The Committees terms of reference are subject to an annual review Directors, the Manufacturing Director, the Distribution Director and are available on request, and on the Groups website plus three other senior executives.
This body has met monthly and www.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review 38 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Corporate governance report continued b Remuneration Committee i Overview of actions taken by the Audit Committee in The current membership of the Remuneration Committee is discharging its duties shown in the table above detailing Board and Board committee The Committee has received and reviewed reports and presentations membership.
Sir Ian Gibson was appointed as a member on from senior management to fulfil its terms of reference.
The Committees terms of reference are its responsibilities in this respect the Committee considered: subject to an annual review and are available on request and on interim and preliminary results announcements and interim the Groups website www.
management statements, During the year, the Committee has continued to reshape the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in remuneration packages to make them more performance related the Groups financial statements, and to ensure the Groups ability to recruit, retain and motivate high calibre senior executives.
This has included the introduction of a the potential effects of tax and pensions accounting and other competitive suite of annual and long term incentives.
The Long Term significant judgmental and complex accounting issues dealt Incentive Plan LTIP was granted approval at the AGM in May 2007. within the accounts, The initial grant under the LTIP was made on 24 May 2007. the impact of litigation and contingent liabilities on the Group.
During the year, the Committee received advice from its The Audit Committee oversees the Groups relationship with the appointed advisers New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC on external auditors.
To fulfil its responsibilities in respect of the all remuneration related matters, Jardine Lloyd Thompson in respect independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, the of pensions, and Ashurst in respect of Executive Directors contracts.
Committee reviewed: Since his appointment in June 2007, the Group Human Resources Director has also materially assisted the Committee in its the terms, areas of responsibility, duties and scope of the external deliberations.
auditors as set out in the engagement letter, During the year, NBSC and Hay Group provided advice on incentive the external auditors work plan for the Group and its subsidiaries, arrangements for staff.
the audit fee and the extent of non-audit services provided by c Audit Committee the external auditors.
The Board has delegated, to the Audit Committee, the responsibility The Committee reviewed the letter from KPMG Audit Plc for reviewing on its behalf: confirming its independence and objectivity.
The Board has a policy the integrity of financial reports, on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, and the Committee reviewed the scope of non-audit the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk services provided by the external auditors to ensure that there management systems, was no impairment of objectivity.
Private meetings are held with the independence of the external auditors.
the external auditors, without management present.
The purpose of these meetings is to understand their views on the control and The Audit Committees remit has not changed during the year.
governance environment and managements effectiveness within it.
Full terms of reference are available on request and on the Groups website www.
ii Internal control The Board is responsible for setting a system of internal control for The Audit Committee regularly considers the professional the Group and reviewing its effectiveness.
The control system is development needs of its members, and whether adequate intended to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not meeting technical information is being provided.
Where necessary it will the Groups strategic objectives.
Any such system can only provide seek independent external advice at the Groups expense, with reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement such arrangements made through the Company Secretary.
the Audit Committee remains short of a member with recent and relevant financial experience, the Company Secretary has retained, The Board delegates to the Audit Committee the review of the at the request of the Audit Committee Chairman, the services of effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management  LLP to advise the Audit Committee at systems.
During the year the Committee did this by: relevant times during the year.
receiving and considering regular reports from the internal audit There has been no change in the composition of the Audit function on the status of internal control and risk management Committee during the year and the roles of the members also systems across the Group.
The Committee also reviewed the remain unchanged.
The Chairman, the CEO, the Group Finance departments findings, annual plan and the resources available Director, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit and other finance to it to perform its work, department representatives have attended meetings by invitation.
reviewing the external auditors management letters on internal financial control, seeking reports from senior management on the effectiveness of the management of key risk areas, Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 39 monitoring the adequacy and timeliness of managements response to identified audit issues.
Specific matters that were considered by the Committee or the Board included the supply of contaminated fuel, and the temporary closure in Paisley of one stores delicatessen counter.
In both cases the business moved quickly to reduce the effect on our customers and to resume normal business.
During the year, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit made recommendations to the Board that introduced a regular process of formal risk assessment as an integral part of planning and review for business operations and major projects.
These recommendations were accepted by the Board.
To support the Boards review, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit is introducing to the Group a new, formal and continual process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the business.
The Board is satisfied that a continual process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks has been in place for the financial year and up to the date of this Annual report.
To date, no material financial problems have been identified that would affect the results reported in these financial statements.
The Board confirms that if significant failings or weaknesses had been identified during this review the Board would have taken the necessary steps to remedy them.
Shareholder relations The CEO and the Group Finance Director meet regularly with analysts and institutional shareholders.
The Investor Relations Director also maintains a programme of work that reports to the Board the requirements and information needs of institutional and major investors.
This is part of the regular contact that the Group maintains with its institutional shareholders.
All Directors, Executive and Non-Executive attend the AGM.
The Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer any questions.
Additionally, the Groups brokers sought independent feedback from investors following the annual and interim results in 2007.
This feedback was reported to the Board.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review
