WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:29 Page 46 Corporate governance report Including the report of the Audit Committee During the year, the committee reviewed and updated its terms Indemnities of reference.
The chairman of the committee attends the Annual In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the General Meeting to respond to any questions shareholders may Company has always indemnified its Directors to the maximum raise on the committees activities.
extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as Executive Committee defined in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 have been granted to the Directors and the Company Secretary and these The Executive Directors of the Company together with the remain in force as at the date of this report.
The Company has Group Chief Information Officer, the Director of Financial Reporting also arranged appropriate insurance coverage in respect of legal and Strategic Planning, the Group HR Director and the Group action against its Directors and Officers.
Neither the Companys Company Secretary and General Counsel, meet at least eight indemnity nor insurance would provide any coverage to the times each year, usually prior to Board meetings.
The committee extent that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently addresses operational business issues and is responsible for or dishonestly.
implementing strategy and Group policies, day-to-day management and monitoring business performance.
Board committees Treasury Committee The formal terms of reference for the Board committees, approved by the Board and complying with the Code to assist The committee consists of the Group Chief Executive, the in the discharge of its duties, are available from the Company Chief Financial Officer, who chairs the committee, and the Group Secretary and can also be found on the Companys website Treasurer.
The committees role is to consider treasury policy, at www.
Membership of the various committees including financial structures and investments: tax strategy and is shown below.
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary hedging policies and certain transactions on behalf of the Group, to all Board committees.
within a framework delegated by the Board.
Nominations Committee Disclosure Committee The Nominations Committee meets as required and met once The committee consists of the Chairman, the Group Chief during the year ending 31 July 2008.
The committee consists Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, who chairs the committee, of Messrs Davis, Duff, Murray, Stein and Whybrow, who chairs the Director of Communications and the Group Company Secretary the committee.
Mr Walker left the committee on 31 October and General Counsel.
The committee meets as required to deal 2007.
Mr Whybrow would not chair the committee or attend if with all matters relating to public announcements of the Company it were to consider the appointment of a successor Chairman.
and the Companys obligations under the Listing and Disclosure The committee reviews the structure, size and composition of Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The committee also assists in the the Board and its committees and makes recommendations design, implementation and periodic evaluation of the Companys with regard to any changes that are considered necessary, both disclosure controls and procedures.
in the identification and nomination of new Directors and the continuation of existing Directors in office.
The committee retains Audit Committee external search consultants as appropriate.
The committee The Audit Committee has wide-ranging oversight responsibilities also advises the Board on succession planning for Board assigned to it by the Board.
It reports regularly to the Board on appointments although the Board itself has overall responsibility compliance in relation to the business activities for which it has for succession generally.
During the year, the committee reviewed responsibility within its terms of reference.
and updated its terms of reference.
The committee consists of Messrs Davis, Stein and Murray, Remuneration Committee who chairs the committee, all of whom are independent Non The committee consists of Messrs Davis, Stein, Whybrow and Executive Directors.
The committees membership is reviewed Duff, who chairs the committee, all of whom are considered by the Nominations Committee and by Mr Murray at regular independent within the definition set out in the Code.
Members of the committee are appointed by the Board Stein and Whybrow were appointed to the committee with effect following recommendations by the Nominations Committee.
from 31 October 2007, following the departure of Mr Walker from the Board.
The committee met four times during the year and Each member of the committee brings relevant financial experience Director attendance for each meeting is shown in the table on at a senior executive level: the expertise and experience of page 48.
The committee has delegated authority to deal the members of the committee are summarised on page 41. with remuneration matters, including pension rights and any The Board considers that each member of the committee is compensation payments on behalf of the Board.
It is responsible independent within the definition set out in the Code.
Mr Stein is for setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the considered by the Board to have significant, recent and relevant Group Company Secretary in accordance with the remuneration financial experience, having been, until September 2007, Finance policy approved by the Board.
It is also responsible for Director of GKN plc.
determining the fees of the Chairman and for monitoring and approving the remuneration policy in relation to senior managers below Board level.
The committee prepares, for the Boards approval, the Remuneration report, which is presented to shareholders at each Annual General Meeting.
46 Corporate governance report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:29 Page 47 All members of the committee receive appropriate induction, The committee is also responsible for the development, which is in addition to the induction which all new Directors implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy receive and includes an overview of the business, its financial on external audit and the committee reserves oversight dynamics and risks.
Members of the committee undertake responsibility for monitoring independence, objectivity and ongoing training as required.
Audit Committee members are compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements.
expected to have an understanding of the following areas: The committee recommends the appointment and reappointment the principles of, contents of and developments in, financial of the Companys external auditors and annually reviews a reporting, including the applicable accounting standards and formal letter provided by the external auditors confirming their statements of recommended practice and, in particular, the independence and objectivity within the context of applicable appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and regulatory requirements and professional standards.
integrity of the financial statements: the Companys wider corporate policies and its financing: and The committee monitors the rotation of key partners within the Companys systems of internal control and matters that the external auditors from time to time in accordance with require the use of judgement in the presentation of accounts UK regulations.
The committee also monitors the extent of and key figures as well as the role of internal and external non-audit work which the external auditors can perform for auditors.
the Company, to ensure that the provision of those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the external auditors falls The committee meets regularly throughout the year and its within the agreed policy and does not impair their objectivity agenda is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Under the policy, the external auditors cannot The agenda is mostly cyclical although each member of the be engaged to perform any of the following services: committee may require reports on matters of interest in addition to the regular items.
Members attendance at the meetings held book-keeping services related to accounting records or during the year is set out in the table on page 48. financial statements: financial information systems design and implementation: The committee invites the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions and the Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Financial Reporting contributions in kind reports: and Strategic Planning and the Head of Internal Audit, together actuarial services: with senior representatives of the Companys external auditors, internal audit outsourcing services: to attend each meeting and receive its papers, although it reserves management functions including human resources: part of each meeting for discussions without the invitees being broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking present.
Other senior executives are invited to present such services: or reports as are required for the committee to discharge its duties.
legal and other services unrelated to the audit.
The Audit Committee members regularly meet the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors without the presence of The policy requires pre-approval by the committee of any nonexecutive management.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee audit work subject to maximum budget levels.
The external attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder auditors provide audit-related services such as regulatory and questions that might be raised on the committees activities.
statutory reporting as well as formalities relating to shareholder or other circulars.
The external auditors report to the committee The committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities related any material departures from Group accounting policies and to external financial reporting and associated announcements.
procedures that they identify during the course of their audit During the year, the matters reviewed, either as a committee or work.
Within the constraints of applicable UK Ethical Standards, as part of the Board, included: the external auditors undertake due diligence reviews and provide assistance on tax matters given their in-depth knowledge the interim and annual financial statements, including the of the Groups business.
The provision of non-audit services requirements for financial reporting: within such constraints and the agreed policy is assessed on a the interim and preliminary announcements made to the case-by-case basis so that the best-placed adviser is retained.
London Stock Exchange: the Companys trading and interim management statements During the year, the committee reviewed the effectiveness of and, where practicable, all proposed announcements to be the external auditors, which included receiving responses from made by the Company to the extent that they contained each of the Groups operating companies and considered material financial information: whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and the reasons changes proposed to the Companys policies and practices: for any variation from the plan.
The committee also considered the documentation in relation to the Companys delisting from the external auditors robustness and the degree to which the the New York Stock Exchange and deregistration from the external auditors were able to assess key accounting and audit US Securities and Exchange Commission: judgements and the context of the management letter.
In significant accounting and auditing issues: accordance with its remit, the committee reviewed and approved the operation of the Companys whistle-blowing policy: the terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the audit including litigation and contingent liabilities and tax matters, including schedules of unadjusted errors and representation letters as set contingencies against tax liabilities together with compliance out in the external auditors engagement letter: the overall work with statutory tax obligations: plan for the forthcoming year, together with the cost-effectiveness fraud reports: and of the audit as well as the auditors remuneration and performance: the Companys risk management process.
any issues which arose during the course of the audit and their resolution: key accounting and audit judgements: errors identified during the audit: and the recommendations made to management by the auditors and managements response.
Corporate governance report 47 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:29 Page 48 Corporate governance report Including the report of the Audit Committee The total fees paid to  in the year ended Meetings attendance 31 July 2008 were 9.2 million 2007: 10.5 million, of which The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings 5.0 million 2007: 4.2 million related to non-audit work.
Further of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the year ended held during the year: 31 July 2008 can be found in note 3 to the financial statements on page 74.
Number of meetings Audit Remuneration Nominations held during the year Board Committee Committee Committee The committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Groups to 31 July 2008 10 4 4 1 internal audit function, including its terms of reference, audit G Davis 10 4 4 1 1 plans, general performance and its relationship with the external A J Duff 10 4 1 auditors.
Throughout the year, the committee reviewed the C A S Hornsby 10 1 internal audit functions plans and its achievements against R H Marchbank 10 such plans.
The committee considered the results of the audits 1 2 J I K Murray 10 4 1 undertaken by the internal audit function and considered the F W Roach 10 2 2 adequacy of managements response to matters raised, including N M Stein 10 4 2 1 the time taken to resolve any such matters.
The committee S P Webster 10 carried out its annual review to consider the effectiveness of the 1 2 1 J W Whybrow 9 2 1 internal audit function using guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales and the Institute 1 Chairman.
2 Appointed to the Committee on 31 October 2007.
The committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of This table only shows those meetings which each Director the Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and attended as a member rather than as an invitee.
practices, standards of risk management and risk management procedures and compliance controls as well as the Companys Internal audit statements on internal controls before they are agreed by the The internal audit function is fully independent of the day-to-day Board for each years annual report.
The Board retains overall operations of the Group.
It is involved in the assessment of the responsibility for internal control and for the identification and quality of risk management and internal control and helps to management of business risk.
promote and further develop effective risk management within the businesses.
Certain internal audit assignments such as those The Companys whistle-blowing policy, which is an extension of requiring specialist expertise continue to be outsourced by the the Group-wide Code of Ethics, gives details of the international Head of Internal Audit to KPMG LLP as required.
A policy has been whistle-blowing hotlines which are operated on behalf of the established regarding the recruitment of staff from both KPMG LLP Company by an independent third party.
The hotlines facilitate and  LLP.
The Head of Internal Audit the arrangements whereby employees can make confidential attends all Audit Committee meetings in addition to having disclosures on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing regular meetings with the chairman of that committee.
The Audit issues and related matters.
Any matters reported are duly Committee reviews key performance indicators relating to the activity investigated and are escalated to the committee, as appropriate.
Statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures made are reported to the committee on an annual basis.
A copy Internal control of the Groups Code of Ethics is available on the Companys website at www.
In a decentralised Group, where local management has considerable autonomy to run and develop their businesses, Each year the committee critically reviews its own performance a well designed system of internal control is necessary to safeguard and considers where improvements can be made.
The shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Directors committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated have overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal during the year.
control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group and has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved.
These systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate business risk: safeguard the Groups assets against material loss: fairly report the Groups performance and position: and to ensure compliance with relevant legislation, regulation and best practice, including that related to social, environmental and ethical matters.
The systems provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and are reviewed by the Board regularly to deal with changing circumstances.
48 Corporate governance report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:29 Page 49 Summaries of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups Delisting from the New York Stock business are given in the Performance review on pages 23 to Exchange and deregistration from the 26 and in note 26 on pages 89 to 92.
Risk assessment and Securities and Exchange Commission evaluation is an integral part of the Groups annual planning cycle.
Each business documents the strategic objectives and As noted in the Report of the Directors on page 42, the the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and, Company delisted from the New York Stock Exchange and as part of this review, each business area and function has been deregistered from the US Securities and Exchange Commission required to identify and document each significant risk, together SEC on 2 January 2008.
As a result, the Company now has with the mitigating actions implemented to manage, monitor and a Level I American Depositary Receipt programme with the report to management on the effectiveness of actions taken.
Group operating companies also submit risk management and Prior to deregistration from the SEC, the Group Chief Executive internal control representation letters biannually to the Chief and the Chief Financial Officer, in accordance with Section 404 Financial Officer, with comments on the control environment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, provided certifications that within their operations.
The Chief Financial Officer summarises there were no changes to the Companys internal control these submissions for the Audit Committee and the Executive over financial reporting which materially affected, or would Committee.
The chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the be reasonably likely to materially affect, the internal control Board on any matters which have arisen from the committees procedures of the Company.
The Company was also review of the way in which the risk management and internal responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate control processes have been applied, or any breakdowns in, system of internal controls over financial reporting for the or exceptions to, these procedures.
These processes have been Group and used the framework developed by the Committee in place throughout the year ended 31 July 2008 and have of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission continued to the date of this report.
The Board has reviewed the the COSO framework which has been adopted as industry effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the year best practice for defining internal control structures to evaluate under review and a summary of the principal control structures the effectiveness of that system.
Following deregistration, and processes in place across the Group is set out below.
the Company is no longer required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as a foreign private issuer.
However, the Directors recognise the benefits of the established system Control structures of internal controls over financial reporting and have therefore Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system retained the key elements of those controls, including the of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has COSO framework, under what is known as an Advanced delegated responsibility for the risk management and internal Control Environment programme.
control programme to the Chief Financial Officer.
The detailed review of risk management and internal control has been Compliance statement delegated to the Audit Committee.
The management of each Group company is responsible for risk management and internal The Company applied all of the principles set out in section 1 control within its own business and for ensuring compliance with of the Code for the period under review and has, throughout the Groups policies and procedures.
Each Group company has the year, complied with the detailed provisions set out therein.
appointed a risk director whose primary role in such capacity is to ensure compliance by local management with the Groups risk The Companys auditors,  LLP, are management and internal control programme.
Both the internal required to review whether the above statement reflects the and external auditors have reviewed the overall approach Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Code adopted by the Group towards its risk management activities specified for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing so as to reinforce these internal control requirements.
Authority and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
Control processes Communications with shareholders The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual basis and approves Group company budgets and The Company places considerable importance on communication strategies in light of these.
Control is exercised at Group, with its shareholders, including its employee shareholders.
The continental, cluster and subsidiary board level through monthly Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer are closely monitoring of performance by comparison to budgets, forecasts involved in investor relations and a senior executive has day-to-day and cash targets and by regular visits to Group companies by responsibility for such matters.
The views of our major shareholders the Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and continental are reported to the Board by the Chief Financial Officer and by CEOs.
The Board has formal procedures in place for the approval the Chairman and are discussed at its meetings.
The Annual of investment, acquisition and disposal projects, with designated Report and Accounts are available to all shareholders either levels of authority, supported by post-investment review processes in paper form or electronically and can be accessed via the for major acquisitions or disposals and capital expenditure.
com or via Shareview, The Board takes account of social, environmental and ethical an internet service offered by the Companys Registrars, as matters in relation to the Groups businesses when reviewing detailed in Shareholder information on page 124. the risks faced by the Group.
The Board is conscious of the effect such matters may have on the shortand long-term value of the Company.
Corporate governance report 49 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:29 Page 50 Corporate governance report Including the report of the Audit Committee The Company has regular dialogue with institutional shareholders Directors responsibility statement and meetings with shareholder representatives and promotes The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, communications with private shareholders through attendance the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance at the Annual General Meeting.
Contact with institutional with applicable law and regulations.
UK company law requires shareholders and with financial analysts, brokers and the media the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
is controlled by written guidelines to ensure the protection of Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group financial sensitive information which could affect the Companys share statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting price and which has not already been made generally available Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union, and the to the Companys shareholders.
Contact is also maintained, when parent Company financial statements and the Remuneration report appropriate, with shareholders to discuss overall remuneration in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting plans and policies.
The Chairman also ensures that the Board Standards UK GAAP.
The Group and parent Company financial maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders and, statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the although the Non Executive Directors are not formally asked, state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit at present, to meet the Companys shareholders, their attendance or loss of the Group for that period.
at presentations of the preliminary and interim results is encouraged.
The Groups preliminary and interim results, as well In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: as all announcements issued to the London Stock Exchange, are published on the Companys website, www.
The select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Company issues regular trading updates to the market and these, consistently: together with copies of presentations to analysts and interviews make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: with the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, are state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs, also posted on the Companys website.
The Notice of the Annual as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 parent company financial statements that applicable UK working days before such meeting and it is Company policy Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any not to combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings.
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial All shareholders are invited to the Companys Annual General statements: and Meeting at which they have the opportunity to put questions prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements to the Board and it is standard practice to have the Senior on the going concern basis.
Independent Director and the chairmen of the Audit, Nominations The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above and Remuneration Committees available to answer questions.
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions which may be recorded on the proxy form The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting accompanying the Notice of Meeting, are counted before the records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Annual General Meeting and the results are made available at financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable the meeting after shareholders have voted on each resolution them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with on a show of hands.
The results are also announced to the the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and London Stock Exchange and are published on the Companys the parent Company financial statements and the Remuneration website shortly after the meeting.
report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Annual General Meeting resolutions Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
to be held on 18 November 2008, together with explanatory notes, appear in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which has The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity been posted to each shareholder.
This document is also available of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom on the Companys website at www.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
On behalf of the Board Richard Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Wolseley plc, Registered No.
29846 Theale, Reading 22 September 2008 50 Corporate governance report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 42-124 6 10 08 13:46 Page 51 Remuneration report For the year ended 31 July 2008 The Remuneration report has been received and adopted by Introduction shareholders at each of the Annual General Meetings held This report, approved by the Board, has been prepared in since 2003 and shareholders will again be invited to receive accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and adopt this report at the Annual General Meeting to be held the Act, as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report on 18 November 2008.
Regulations 2002, and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Furthermore, the Board has applied the principles of Policy on Directors remuneration good governance relating to Directors Remuneration contained within the Combined Code.
Non Executive Directors The remuneration of Non Executive Directors is made up of a The Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys basic fee and an additional fee where a Non Executive Director shareholders on the audited information within this report and acts as chairman of either the Audit or Remuneration Committees to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have and for the Director nominated as Senior Independent Director.
been prepared in accordance with the Act.
The auditors opinion Fees are reviewed from time to time by the Chairman and the is set out on page 107 and those aspects of the report which Executive Directors of the Board.
The Non Executive Directors have been subject to audit are clearly marked.
have letters of engagement rather than service contracts and do not participate in any incentive plan, nor is any pension payable in respect of their services as Non Executive Directors.
Remuneration Committee The Boards policy is that Non Executive Directors are normally The Board sets the Companys remuneration policy.
The appointed for an initial term of three years, which is then reviewed Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board, and extended for a further three-year period.
Appointments may within its agreed terms of reference available on the Companys be terminated upon six months notice.
There are no provisions website, www.
com on the Companys framework of for compensation in the event of termination.
The terms and executive remuneration and its cost, which takes into account conditions of appointment of the Non Executive Directors are all factors which it deems necessary.
It also determines, with available for inspection at the Companys registered office during agreement of the Board, specific remuneration packages for each normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
of the Executive Directors, the Chairman, the Company Secretary and members of the Executive Committee.
The Chairman and Executive Directors the Executive Directors of the Board determine the remuneration The Companys policy continues to be to provide remuneration of the Non Executive Directors.
The committee is also responsible packages that fairly reward Executive Directors for the for the Companys share incentive schemes for employees.
contribution they make to the business, having regard to the The current members of the committee, as detailed on page 46, size and complexity of the Groups operations and the need consist of three Non Executive Directors and the Chairman to attract, retain and motivate executives of the highest quality.
as permitted by the Code, all of whom are independent within Remuneration packages comprise salary, performance bonuses, the definition set out in the Code, and the Company Secretary share options, long-term incentive awards, benefits in kind and acts as its secretary.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group retirement benefit provisions.
The Company takes fully into HR Director are normally invited to attend the meetings of the account all of these individual elements in adopting a total committee to respond to specific questions raised by members approach to remuneration.
The Companys policy is that of the committee.
This specifically excludes such matters each of the packages should incorporate components linking concerning the details of and any discussions relating to their individual and company performance, shortand long-term own remuneration.
The committee has access to detailed returns as well as absolute and relative financial performance.
external research on market data and trends from experienced None of the variable elements of remuneration are pensionable.
Since 2003, the committee has sought These packages are designed to be broadly comparable with external advice from Hewitt New Bridge Street formerly known those offered by other similar international businesses and as New Bridge Street Consultants LLP.
Hewitt New Bridge reflect competitive practices in the countries and markets Street provides no other services to the Company.
in which the Executive Directors operate.
The committee met four times during the year, at which all The committee believes that the choice of performance measures committee members were in attendance.
At these meetings, for the incentive plans continues to be suitable and provides amongst other items, the committee considered: an appropriate mix and balance.
The measures are earnings per share EPS for executive options and total shareholder return determination of bonus performance criteria and a review TSR for long term incentive awards.
The targets are felt to of performance prior to payment: be demanding for the next three years and align executives operation and award levels under the long term incentive interests with those of shareholders over this period.
plan and executive share option scheme: awards in relation to all employee share plans: and consideration and review of remuneration policy, for both Executive Directors and Executive Committee members.
Remuneration report 51 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
