How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs our Shanghai offices Ford Excitement Program.
The Holmes Report again named us a Best Agency to Work For and I was honored to appear on PRWeeks Power List and named as the One-to-Watch in 2009.
San Francisco and global Sustainability practice leader, Annie Longsworth, was named Top 40 Under 40 talent in the annual PRWeek rankings.
Our client work won several Sabres and Silver Anvils while our Stockholm office won one of the very first Golden Egg awards for public relations.
Were also excited about the formation of GCI Health, a new global healthcare public relations firm born from the merger with GCI.
GCI Health is renowned for highscience expertise, handling clients most difficult challenges, creating and implementing ROI-generating product marketing strategy and pioneering the digital landscape in healthcare.
The agency currently serves some of the largest healthcare companies in the world as well as hospitals, non-profits, associations, medical devices, institutions and more.
2009 promises to be a challenging time for businesses across all industries but we are determined to achieve our goals as a new global competitor.
Demonstrating the value of our work will be critical to our success.
We are well-equipped to do this, and will continue to invest in our people and offerings to cement our industry leadership position.
Its an exciting time to be a part of Cohn & Wolfe.
Burson-Marsteller Full report on page 42 Burson-Marsteller grew its revenue in 2008 while expanding profit margins to levels near the upper-end of the PR industrys historic range.
An increasing number of clients sought out B-Ms advice on crisis matters and issues management, two of our core strengths.
Our new Strategy Team, which includes top former White House counselors, was kept busy with a wide range of clients in the financial, transportation and energy sectors which faced unexpected crises in the wake of the Wall Street credit crisis.
Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide Full report on page 34 In the face of global economic challenges and political transitions, Ogilvy PR has aggressively reinvented itself to meet client needs and continuously recast what makes us unique.
More specialized offerings, new training, increased collaboration among staff across geographies and among practices and profitable growth.
