50 Governance Corporate Governance Report This report sets out our commitment to corporate governance, how the principles of the Code have been applied and the extent of our compliance with the Code.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 51 The directors of the Company remain normal operational management of the our employees, succession planning and committed to ensuring appropriate Group to the chief executive, Keith Clarke, the Groups pension plan arrangements corporate governance procedures are but has agreed a formal schedule of matters the share buyback programme, embedded throughout the Group.
It bases reserved solely for its decision.
This schedule announced in November 2007 these procedures on the requirements includes strategy, the approval of Financial the Groups investment in Metronet of the Combined Code on Corporate Statements and shareholder circulars, the divestment of Lambert Smith Hampton.
Governance adopted by the Financial treasury policy, major capital investments, Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code risk management strategy, acquisitions and The Board has a schedule of regular meetings plus current and emerging best practice.
During the year the Boards and holds additional meetings as required.
This report sets out our commitment to discussions have included: In addition, directors meet as members of corporate governance, how the principles committees.
Table 1 sets out the names of of the Code have been applied and the the Groups strategic plan each Board member, their attendance at extent of our compliance with the Code.
our health, safety and corporate meetings and those Board committees of responsibility performance which they were a member during the year approval of the Group budget and ended 31 March 2008.
Directors discussion of the Groups financial details for these directors, and Raj Rajagopal A.
1 The Board performance who was appointed since this date, can be The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups market announcements, found on pages 44 and 45.
The chairman leading the Group by setting its broad financial results and dividends and non-executive directors also meet strategic aims.
To deliver these strategic our corporate governance framework without the executive directors present aims, the Board reviews the performance shareholder matters at least annually.
of management, seeks to ensure that the necessary resources are available and that appropriate controls, values and standards are in place.
In pursuance of the Groups strategy, the Board has delegated the Table 1 Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman Ed Wallis 8 8 4 4 1 1 Executive directors Keith Clarke 8 8 1 1 Alun Griffiths 8 8 Robert MacLeod 8 8 Independent non-executive directors Admiral the Lord Boyce 8 8 4 4 1 1 1 Fiona Clutterbuck 7 8 4 4 1 1 James Morley 8 8 4 4 4 4 1 1 2 Sir Peter Williams 7 8 4 4 4 4 1 1 Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended number eligible to attend.
Notes 1 One meeting coincided with an engagement made prior to Fiona Clutterbucks appointment on 13 March 2007.
2 One meeting coincided with a charitable event.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 52 Governance Corporate Governance Report Continued Each Board committee has terms of The respective roles of the Board and Following the year-end, the committee reference which are revised annually by Group Executive are discussed further recommended the appointment of the Board.
Copies are available on request under internal control on pages 53 and 54.
Raj Rajagopal as a non-executive director from the company secretary or on the with effect from 24 June 2008.
In line with Groups website www.
3 Board balance and independence the Companys usual practice, Raj Rajagopal Following formal consideration the Board Each of the non-executive directors has been was advised prior to his appointment of may, on occasion, delegate authority to determined by the Board to be independent the time commitment considered necessary a standing committee consisting of any of management and to have no business to enable him to fulfil his responsibilities.
two directors to facilitate final sign-off or other relationship that could interfere for an agreed course of action within materially with the exercise of their Raj brings significant international experience pre-defined parameters.
The independence of the to the Board and will be a considerable non-executive directors is considered at asset to the Company as we continue to A.
2 Chairman and chief executive least annually and is based on the criteria grow the business.
The Committee used It is the Groups policy that the roles of suggested in the Code.
an external search consultancy to assist chairman and chief executive are separate, in making the recommendation for his with their roles and responsibilities clearly The senior independent director is appointment.
His responsibilities include leading the non-executive directors A.
5 Information and professional The chairmans main responsibility is the annual consideration of the chairmans development leadership and management of the Board performance.
He is also available to The company secretary, under the chairmans and its governance.
Our chairman, Ed Wallis, shareholders in the event they feel it direction, is responsible for ensuring that usually spends two days per week on the inappropriate to communicate via the information flows within and between the business of the Group.
His other significant chairman, the chief executive or the Board, its committees, the non-executive commitments are disclosed in his biography group finance director.
directors and senior management function on page 44.
The Board considers that effectively.
The company secretary is also these commitments do not hinder his A.
4 Appointments to the Board responsible for advising the Board on all ability to discharge his responsibilities to The Nomination Committee currently governance matters.
comprises Ed Wallis committee chairman, Lord Boyce, Fiona Clutterbuck, James Morley On joining the Board, directors take part The chief executive is responsible for the and Sir Peter Williams.
The committees in a formal induction process.
This includes leadership and day-to-day management of responsibilities include: the provision of past Board materials to the Group.
This includes formulating and provide background information on the recommending the Groups strategy for reviewing the structure, size and Group, information on Board processes Board approval in addition to executing composition of the Board and governance, site visits and meetings the approved strategy.
identifying and nominating candidates with key employees as necessary.
The for appointment to the Board induction is tailored to the new directors The chief executive has chosen to discharge making recommendations to the Board specific needs.
For example, on his responsibilities for the operational regarding the continuing service of appointment Alun Griffiths received management of the business through the directors and their re-election or information mainly relating to Board Group Executive, his executive team.
Its otherwise to the Board.
processes and governance due to his members currently comprise the managing existing knowledge of the Group.
In directors of our principal business segments, The committees terms of reference are contrast, Fiona Clutterbuck received, the group finance director, the group HR available for review on the Companys and Raj Rajagopal will receive, a wider director and the group communications website.
The non-executive directors terms induction including meetings with each director.
It meets regularly during the year.
and conditions are available for inspection member of the Group Executive.
Those members of the Group Executive at the Companys registered office during who are not directors of the Company are normal business hours and at the invited to attend four Board meetings each Companys AGM.
year and also to meet the non-executive directors informally without the executive directors present.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 53 A continuing professional development The Board has a process for identifying, B. Remuneration framework is in place to assist the chairman, evaluating and managing the risks we face.
Details on the directors remuneration and executive directors and non-executive That process is continual and has been in the work of the Remuneration Committee, directors in discharging their responsibilities place for the year under review up to and as required by the Code and the Directors effectively following appointment to the including the date of this report.
This Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, can Board.
All non-executive directors meet process covers subsidiaries in which the be found in the Directors Remuneration regularly with members of the Group Group has an interest of 50% or more.
Key employees are also invited to Joint Ventures in which we do not have attend Board dinners during the year and overall control are not treated, for these C. Accountability and audit this, together with the presentations and purposes, as part of the Group.
For these site visits, helps ensure the non-executive Joint Ventures, systems of internal control C. 1 Financial reporting directors remain informed of business are applied as agreed between the parties All shareholder communications are developments.
For the Metronet Joint designed to present a balanced and Venture the Board regularly reviewed the understandable view of the Groups position All directors have access to the advice and risks faced by the Group separately.
Statements regarding services of the company secretary and directors responsibilities and the status of receive independent professional advice, The Audit Committee formally reviews the the business as a going concern are given at the Companys expense, as required.
operation and effectiveness of the Groups in the Directors Report on pages 48 and 49. system of internal controls on an annual A.
The latest review covered the C. 2 Internal control The Board, as part of its commitment to financial year to 31 March 2008 and The Board is responsible for reviewing and ensure its effectiveness, carried out an included the period to the approval of the approving the Groups system of internal evaluation of its performance and processes Directors Report and Financial Statements controls and its adequacy and effectiveness.
Each director completed by the Board.
This established system of internal controls a confidential survey which was followed includes financial, operational and by a private meeting with the chairman.
Key features of our system of internal compliance controls and risk management.
The recommendations arising from this control are as follows: It is the role of management to implement process have been considered by the Board the agreed policies on risk and control.
and appropriate actions identified and Group organisation and culture implemented.
During the year, the Audit By its statements and actions the Board Our system of internal financial and Committee and Remuneration Committee emphasises a culture of integrity, operational controls is designed to meet also completed formal assessments of their competence, fairness and responsibility.
the Groups particular needs and aims to performance and processes in the form facilitate effective and efficient operations, of a survey completed by members and The Board focuses mainly on strategic to safeguard the Groups assets, ensure key stakeholders.
issues, senior management performance proper accounting records are maintained and financial performance.
Our chief and ensure that the financial information The chairmans performance was reviewed executive and the Group Executive, as his used within the business and for publication by the non-executive directors, led by the senior executive team, concentrate on is reliable.
Our risk management process senior independent director.
operational performance, operational identifies the key risks facing each business decision-making and the formulation and reports to the Board on how those A.
7 Re-election of strategic proposals to the Board.
The risks are being managed.
In accordance with the Companys Articles Groups managing directors manage their of Association, one-third of the Board is businesses with the support of senior Such a system of internal control can only be required to retire by rotation each year.
The Board determines how designed to manage rather than eliminate In addition, any director appointed during the chief executive operates within a risk of failure to achieve business objectives the year will stand for election at the next framework of delegated authorities and and can provide reasonable, but not general meeting.
These requirements ensure reserved powers which seek to ensure absolute, assurance against material that each Board member is re-elected that certain transactions, significant in misstatement and loss.
terms of their size or type, are undertaken only after Board review.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 54 Governance Corporate Governance Report Continued Control environment Individual business controls Internal audit Our operational structure has clearly Individual businesses and central The internal audit function undertakes a documented and communicated principles corporate functions complete an annual programme to address internal control of delegation of authority and segregation self-certification statement.
Responsible and risk management processes with of duties.
The Groups management managers personally confirm the review particular reference to the Turnbull systems include financial policies and of their systems of internal control and report.
Its conclusions are communicated procedures, corporate and business their compliance with Group policies.
The to the relevant level of management and quality assurance manuals, health and statement also requires the reporting of the function has a direct reporting safety procedures and environmental any significant control issues that have responsibility to the Audit Committee.
These emerged so that areas of Group concern procedures are subject to review to may be identified, addressed and C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors ensure that improvements to enhance experience shared.
The results of the The Audit Committee currently comprises controls can be made.
process are reviewed by the Audit James Morley committee chairman, Committee and reported to the Board.
Fiona Clutterbuck and Sir Peter Williams.
Financial reporting All members of the committee are The Board approves a strategic plan Functional reporting considered by the Board to be independent and annual budgets for the Group.
The Board assesses the risks facing the and to have recent and relevant financial The financial performance of individual business on an ongoing basis and has experience.
The committees terms of business segments is reported regularly identified a number of other key areas reference are available for review on the and compared to annual budgets.
We that are subject to regular reporting to Groups website.
During the year the report to our shareholders on a halfthe Board such as human resources, committees activities have included: yearly basis.
Forecasts for the Group are health and safety, environment, tax updated and reviewed by the Board and treasury.
an assessment of the effectiveness of the regularly.
Companys system of internal control, risk Risk management review management process and the Groups Project and contract control The Board assesses risk management employee disclosure arrangements Procedures seek to ensure that risks are throughout the Group, aided by the a detailed review of the internal identified through the project lifecycle Group Risk Committee and detailed audit plan from bidding to completion.
Regular reviews of internal controls and risk regular examination of the reports review procedures are in place to ensure management.
The Group risk management arising from the work undertaken by that issues are reported to the Board framework requires businesses to record the internal audit function appropriately.
A commercial risk and formally all significant risks facing their a review of the continued independence audit framework is in place that requires business and detail the steps being taken of the external auditors including their peer review to be carried out for all to avoid or mitigate those risks.
A audit and non-audit work significant bids and opportunities or summary of the key risks facing the a review of the independent external where significant investment decisions Group is placed on risk registers which auditors audit plan and their findings have to be taken.
are reviewed regularly by the Audit in relation to the annual report and Committee and the Board.
half-year report Business conduct policy a review of the Companys draft annual The Board is responsible for the Groups The Group maintains insurance policies report, half-year results and associated business conduct policy.
The Group to provide protection from losses arising announcements focusing on key believes that integrity is a fundamental through claims from clients.
The adequacy judgemental areas and accounting policies prerequisite for successful business of the Groups insurance cover, including an appraisal of its own effectiveness and relationships, both internally and externally.
arrangements within the captive insurance that of the internal and independent Reputation, trust and confidence are company, is reviewed by the Board annually.
essential elements that we seek to protect and enhance to the benefit of all with whom we have a relationship.
The Group seeks to understand and meet its customers needs, whilst seeking continuous improvement.
Across the Group there are procedures in place that seek to underpin this approach.
By so doing the Group aims to meet the needs of all stakeholders.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 55 The committee meets the independent D. 2 Constructive use of the AGM D. Relations with shareholders external auditors and head of internal audit All our shareholders are invited to attend D. 1 Dialogue with institutional privately at each scheduled meeting.
The the Companys AGM, at which all directors shareholders independent external auditors and head of are present.
We seek to encourage The Board regards communication with internal audit also have unrestricted access shareholder participation by enabling proxy shareholders as key.
Relations with to the committee and its chairman.
votes to be lodged online via our shareholder shareholders are managed mainly by the services portal, www.
com chief executive and group finance director.
The committee monitors the costMeetings are held regularly throughout the effectiveness of audit and non-audit work Statement of compliance year with institutional investors, fund performed by the independent auditors and with the Combined Code managers and analysts.
The Groups also considers the potential impact, if any, website contains information on current Throughout the year ended 31 March 2008 of this work on independence.
Approval is activities including the annual and half-year the Company complied with the provisions required prior to them commencing any results presentations.
material non-audit work in accordance with Group policy.
The policy identifies certain The chairman also writes to our institutional Approved by the Board and signed on non-audit work that may be awarded with investors annually to reinforce our its behalf by the approval of the executive directors commitment to open, ongoing dialogue.
whereas other work requires specific approval The senior independent director and other of the committee.
The committee also non-executive directors, along with the regulates the appointment of former chairman, make themselves available for Richard Webster employees of the external audit firm to meetings with major shareholders, the Company Secretary positions in the Group.
The committee chairman particularly being available 25 June 2008 regularly reviews all fees for non-audit to discuss governance.
This enables work paid to the independent external shareholders to take up with these auditors.
Details of these fees can be found individuals any issue they feel unable to in note 5 to the Financial Statements on raise with the chief executive or group page 82.
During the year fees for non-audit finance director.
work included work in respect of the Companys divestment of Lambert Smith The non-executive directors are kept Hampton.
The impact of this work and the informed of the views of shareholders objectivity and independence of the with the executive directors providing independent external auditor was updates on investor meetings.
The Groups considered by the Board prior to their broker provides briefings to the Board appointment and the engagement was on shareholder opinions and compiles held to be appropriate.
independent feedback from investor meetings.
The independent external auditors also operate procedures designed to safeguard their objectivity and independence.
These include the periodic rotation of audit partner, use of independent concurring partners, use of technical review panel where appropriate and annual independence confirmations by all staff.
The independent external auditors report to the committee on matters including independence and non-audit work on an annual basis.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
