annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance Introduction Dennis Millard was appointed as Senior Independent Director Xchanging plc remains committed to ensuring high standards at the 11 January 2009 Board meeting.
However, for the period of corporate governance.
Throughout the year, the Group Board between Nigel Rich becoming Chairman at the May 2008 AGM Board has applied the provisions set out in the Combined Code and the appointment of Dennis Millard, there was no designated in all respects except in relation to the Board, Remuneration Senior Independent Director.
Consequently, the Company was and audit committees composition and appointment of a not in compliance with provision A.
3.3 of the Code for this Senior Independent Director, in each case, as set out below.
period, but now considers itself fully compliant.
Progress made this year to address such shortcomings and further The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer plans for such are also set out below.
are segregated and the division of responsibilities between the The Board and Committees two roles has been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for creating As well as the two Executive Directors, the following and sustaining shareholder value through the management of Non-Executive Directors are deemed by the Board not to be the Groups businesses.
It sets the Groups strategic plan and independent under the terms of the Code and consequently budgets, monitors their implementation and, with the assistance the Group Board is not compliant with provision A.
3.2 of of the Audit Committee, ensures that executive management the Code relating to Board composition: maintain a system of internal operational, financial and regulatory Tom Tinsley due to his being an appointee of General controls that identify and manage appropriately the risks set out Atlantic Partners, a founder shareholder in Xchanging and on page 37.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved still holding approximately 17.8% of Xchanging plc shares for its decision, including the approval of interim and final Johannes Maret due to him being a consultant to financial statements, significant changes in accounting policy Xchanging GmbH, a Group company, since June 2003. and practice, the appointment or removal of Directors or the Company Secretary, changes to the Groups capital structure, The Board believe that Tom Tinsley contributes significantly to the investments, contracts, acquisitions, mergers and disposals.
Board, drawing on his broad experience and industry knowledge.
The Board believe that Johannes Maret provides essential insight Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Board and advice on the German financial services industry a key sub-committees which operate within clearly defined terms market for Xchanging.
The remaining three Non-Executive of reference.
Directors have been deemed to be independent by the Board.
Details of the schedule of matters reserved for the Board and the Pat ODriscoll joined the Board following a rigorous recruitment responsibilities delegated to the Board sub-committees can be process led by the Nominations Committee, who employed found on the Groups website, www.
the services of an independent search firm.
The Nominations The operational management of Xchanging is delegated to the Committee met and interviewed various candidates.
The Xchanging Management Board XMB.
The composition of the candidates also met with members of the senior executive XMB is set out on pages 44 and 45. management.
Following that, a recommendation was made to the Board by the Nominations Committee and Pat ODriscoll Board composition and structure was appointed to the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Following the retirements of John Robins, John Bramley and Nominations Committees on 3 November 2008.
A similar David Hodgson at the May 2008 AGM and Adele Brownes process will be used in the search for a further independent resignation effective from 31 December 2008, the Board Non-Executive Director in the first half of 2009. currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, Nigel Rich: the Chief Executive Officer, David Andrews: the Chief Financial Officer Such an appointment would move the Company to full Richard Houghton: and five other Non-Executive Directors: compliance with Code provision A.
Dennis Millard the Senior Independent Director : Tom Tinsley an appointee of General Atlantic : Stephen Brenninkmeijer: Johannes Maret: and Pat ODriscoll.
indd 5 31 03 2009 09:50:08 Governance annual report and accounts 2008 Attendance at Board and committee meetings The attendance of Directors at Group Board meetings and at meetings of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees during 2008 is shown in the table below: Board Audit Nominations Remuneration meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Scheduled meetings 9 4 3 4 1 Nigel Rich 9 1 3 2 David Andrews 9 N A 3 N A Stephen Brenninkmeijer 7 4 3 4 2 Adele Browne 7 N A N A N A Richard Houghton 7 N A N A N A Johannes Maret 8 N A N A N A Dennis Millard 9 4 3 4 Tom Tinsley 5 N A N A 4 3 Pat ODriscoll 2 1 N A 1 4 John robins 3 N A 2 1 4 John Bramley 3 N A 2 2 4 David Hodgson 3 N A 2 N A 1 Resigned from Audit and Remuneration Committees on 22 May 2008.
4 Retired from the Board on 22 May 2008.
Directors induction, training and information Board conflicts The Board has a full induction programme for all new Directors.
in preparation for the introduction on 1 october 2008 of the Pat ODriscoll is currently undertaking this programme.
The new Companies Act 2006 Directors conflicts of interest regime, Directors receive ongoing updates to improve their knowledge Section 175, the Companys Articles of Association were amended and enable them to discharge their duties.
For example, during at the May 2008 AGM to enable the Board to authorise matters 2008, Board members received presentations on the various giving rise to an actual or potential conflict of interest.
Pursuant to changes to the law under the Companies Act 2006. such power, prior to 1 October 2008, each Director completed and returned a detailed form, sent to them by the Company Secretary, Directors receive written reports prior to each Board meeting listing all other positions held e. g. Directorships and detailing any which enable them to make an informed decision on the issues other conflict situations that each thought required prior Board under consideration.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the authorisation.
Each Directors Section 175 return was reviewed Chairman maintains regular contact with the Chief Executive and any potential conflict of interest was approved where relevant Officer and Executive Directors to discuss specific issues.
for example, in relation to Tom Tinsleys appointment by General The Company Secretary acts as an adviser to the Board on Atlantic a major shareholder and Johannes Marets incentive matters concerning governance and ensures Board procedures arrangements under his consultancy arrangements with Xchanging are complied with.
All Directors have access to his advice and GmbH.
In each such situation, the Director under consideration during 2008 this was sought in relation to employee share did not vote on the matter.
The Nominations Committee will dealing.
Directors may also take independent professional continue to review the conflict authorisations annually to advice at the Companys expense.
ensure the authorisations, and any conditions attached to them, are appropriate for the relevant matter to remain authorised.
The Company Secretary maintains a list of all authorisations granted to Directors, setting out the date of authorisation and its expiry, scope and any limitations.
indd 6 31 03 2009 09:50:08 annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance continued Board performance evaluation The Audit Committee Formal evaluation of the performance of the Executive Directors Until the May 2008 AGM, the Group Audit Committee comprised is appraised annually by the Chief Executive Officer.
The evaluation four independent Non-Executive Directors: Dennis Millard of the Board and its Committees was conducted during 2008 Committee Chairman, Stephen Brenninkmeijer, John Bramley under the leadership of the Chairman.
Each Director completed and Nigel Rich.
Following the retirement of John Bramley at a detailed questionnaire covering their assessment of the Board the May 2008 AGM, and the departure of Nigel Rich from structure the content and functionality of meetings, corporate the Committee because of his move to Group Chairman, governance and interaction with management and Board the Group Audit Committee was reduced to only two Committee members reviewed the activities of each Committee independent Non-Executive Directors until 3 November 2008, against the actions required by their terms of reference.
Therefore, for the period between The Non-Executive Directors met separately to evaluate the the AGM and the appointment of Pat ODriscoll, the Company performance of the Chairman, who then joined them to evaluate was not compliant with provision C. 3.1 of the Combined Code the performance of the Chief Executive Officer.
relating to Audit Committee composition, but now considers itself fully compliant.
Dennis Millard, a chartered accountant, Following the 2008 Board assessment, the Company Secretary was Group Finance Director of Cookson Group plc from 1996 held interviews with each of the Directors, the details of which to 2005, held further previous executive roles as Finance Director were included in a report, prepared by the Company Secretary in and is currently also Chairman of the Group Audit Committee conjunction with the Chairman and presented to the February 2009 of Debenhams plc.
Thus the Board considers him to have recent Board.
Based on this assessment it is considered that the Board is and relevant financial experience.
operating effectively, but that it must be moved to full compliance with the code.
The Group Audit Committee met four times during 2008.
Also in attendance, by invitation, were the Group Chairman, Election and re-appointment of Directors the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Group Internal Audit All Directors are subject to re-election at the Annual General Meeting and the external auditors and other executives for specific at intervals of no more than three years.
At the next AGM specialised subjects.
Both the Head of Group Internal Audit May 2009, Tom Tinsley and David Andrews will retire by rotation and the external auditors have access to the Audit Committee and seek re-appointment.
At the year end, both Tom Tinsley and Chairman outside of formal Committee meetings.
David Andrews had one year and four months unexpired on their Directors Service Agreements.
Pat ODriscoll will retire at the The Committee maintains a formal calendar of items to be AGM, having been appointed by the Board on 3 November 2008. considered at each meeting to ensure that its work is in line with At the year end, Pat ODriscoll had five months unexpired on her the requirements of the Code.
Key items considered during 2008 Directors Service Contract.
All three retiring Directors will seek include the review of key accounting policies: material judgements: election by the members see Notice of AGM.
quality of earnings and estimates: scope of work and findings of the 2008 and 2009 internal and external audits: interim and full Board Committees year financial statements: IT security: regulatory framework: risk The Group Board has established Audit, Remuneration and register process: whistle-blowing policy: non-audit services: results Nominations Committees.
The Committees have all reviewed from Enterprise Partnership Audit Committee meetings: and the their terms for the 2008 year end, and the changes recommended effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems.
to the Board have been accepted.
The minutes of Committee meetings are sent to all Directors and oral updates are given at Board meetings.
indd 7 31 03 2009 09:50:08 Governance annual report and accounts 2008 The Group Audit Committee reviews the Groups annual report In addition to the Group Audit Committee, each UK Enterprise and accounts, as well as reports from the external auditors Partnership EP has its own Audit Committee whose members identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring and chairman are independent of the ep.
such committees are its attention.
In its July 2008 and February 2009 meetings, attended by Xchangings partners, nominated Xchanging the Committee approved the half year and full year financial Executive Directors and senior EP management.
The Head of statements respectively, and confirmed agreement with key Group Internal Audit attends EP Audit Committees on a regular accounting policies and material judgements.
EP Audit Committees have similar terms of reference to the Group Audit Committee.
In Germany, Xchanging Transaction Reports summarising internal audit activities and key matters Bank XTB has a Shareholder Committee attended by of control are presented at each meeting by the Head of Group representatives from Xchangings partner and nominated Internal Audit.
In 2008, the Committee reviewed managements Xchanging Executive Directors.
Key issues and the minutes of progress against actions throughout the year, agreeing the each EP meeting are reported to the Group Audit Committee.
appropriateness of key recommendations made.
In addition, the chairman of the group audit committee meets with the the Committee reviews and approves both internal and external chairmen of the ep audit committees as is necessary.
audits plans for the coming year.
The plan for external audits 2008 year end audit was approved in September 2008 and Nominations Committee internal audits plan for 2009 was approved in December 2008.
Following the retirement of John Robins, David Hodgson and John Bramley at the May 2008 AGM, the Group Nominations The Committee receives updates from the Head of Group Committee was reduced to four Board members: Nigel Rich Internal Audit and Executive Directors on the subject of risk and Committee Chairman, Stephen Brenninkmeijer, Dennis Millard the processes employed to both identify and mitigate the risks.
On 3 November 2008, Pat ODriscoll also The Committee reviews changes to the Groups risk register and joined the Committee.
Throughout the year, the majority of receives other reports on individual risk areas, such as Information the Committee has been independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board then reviews the risks identified by this process.
The Committee meets as and when required.
It met three times In December 2008, the Committee reviewed the changes to the during 2008, in February, May and June, where it agreed the latest Group risk register and concluded that the process process for the selection of a new independent Non-Executive undertaken to identify and mitigate risks was effective.
Director, the candidate to be proposed to the Board Pat ODriscoll In September 2008, the Committee conducted its annual and the experience required for a further independent Non-Executive assessment of the suitability and performance of the external Director to join the Board.
Going forward, the Committee will auditors in making its recommendation to the Board for their review Directors conflicts of interest.
In addition, to ensure that the objectivity and The Committees broader role remains to assist the Board independence of the audit is not compromised, a review is in discharging its responsibilities relating to the structure, undertaken of the level of non-audit services provided by the composition and size of the Board and has approved plans external auditors and safeguards are put in place such as: for the orderly succession of changes to the Board to move adherence to a detailed policy for non-audit services it towards full compliance with the Code as outlined above.
prohibiting the use of auditors for certain services and for permissible services, defining clear guidelines and safeguards to be put in place with defined approval levels based on materiality and nature of the service seeking confirmation that the auditors are, in their professional judgement, independent of the Company obtaining from the external auditors an account of all relationships with the Company and considering whether, taken as a whole, the various relationships between the Company and the external auditors impair, or appear to impair, the auditors judgement or independence.
indd 8 31 03 2009 09:50:08 annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee Corporate responsibility and whistle blowing Details of the Group Remuneration Committee, its composition, The Group Board is responsible for how the Group manages its role and activities are given in the Directors remuneration report corporate, social and environmental responsibilities.
Details are on pages 58 to 64. set out on pages 38 to 43.
The Remuneration Committee believe that Tom Tinsley continues The Group is committed to the highest standards of openness, to provide valuable knowledge and experience to proceedings probity and accountability.
A Group-wide whistle-blowing policy and so at present will remain a member.
As he is not considered has been established to enable employees to voice concerns to be an independent Non-Executive Director, the Company in a responsible and effective manner, without fear of reprisal.
does not comply with provision B.
2.1 of the Code which Employees can communicate concerns in confidence about any states that all members of the Committee are independent possible improprieties or other matters, through a dedicated Non-Executive Directors.
email address, to which only the Head of Group Internal Audit and the Group Company Secretary have access.
The plan is for Stephen Brenninkmeijer to hand over Chairmanship of the Committee to Pat ODriscoll after the May 2009 AGM.
Reported concerns are investigated at the earliest opportunity by the Head of Group Internal Audit, the Group Company Communication with shareholders Secretary and, if appropriate, by management of the respective The Board places importance on communication with shareholders business.
The Head of Group Internal Audit reports to the and gives them the opportunity to meet the Chairman and chairman of the group audit committee on the concerns Directors as appropriate.
Shareholders will continue to be given raised and any action taken.
the opportunity to meet the chairman and directors in the coming 12 months.
Arrangements can be made for major Internal control and risk management shareholders to meet with Pat ODriscoll and any other newly The Board is responsible for regularly reviewing the operation and appointed Directors.
The Companys Investor Relations team effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
The internal control organises an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk between the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide and institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
Brokers reports and analysts briefings are circulated to the Board, who discuss any key matters raised with management The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal by large investors.
control systems for 2008 and the period prior to approval of the annual report.
The review was undertaken by the Audit Committee The Companys Annual General Meeting on 21 May 2009 will and its findings were reported to the Board by the Audit Committee provide a valuable opportunity for the Board to communicate Chairman at the 10 December 2008 and 27 February 2009 Board with private investors.
We encourage shareholders to attend meetings.
It considered all material controls in accordance with the meeting and to ask questions of the Directors following the Turnbull guidance.
No significant failings or weaknesses were the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
Details of proxy identified during this review and the Board confirms that the voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, will be made necessary actions are in place to remedy any less than significant available on request and will be placed on the Companys website ones.
The Groups key internal control and risk management following the meeting.
procedures include the following: 56 Xchanging plc 2 XCH ar08 middle.
indd 9 31 03 2009 09:50:08 Governance annual report and accounts 2008 reviews of the Groups strategy and the performance of the work performed by the Groups Internal Audit department principal subsidiaries and EPs through a comprehensive system is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group as identified of reporting based on variances to annual budgets, key through the risk management process outlined above, as performance indicators and regular forecasting well as issues identified by monthly performance reporting.
well-defined Group policies and processes, communicated Internal audits objective is to provide independent assurance through the Group Financial Reporting Procedures Manual to the Board and Audit Committee over operational and and intranet portal and a strict process governing the financial controls and to assist the Board in its assessment approval of sales opportunities and capital expenditure of the effectiveness of internal controls.
The Head of Group a defined organisational structure with appropriate Internal Audit reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer, delegation of authority but has the right to report to the Audit Committee Chairman formal authorisation procedures for all investments with independently of Executive Management.
All internal audit clear guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria reports are reviewed by the Audit Committee and made Xchangings Authority to Invest process available to the external auditors formal authorisation procedures for all significant sales each business sector has a Head of Quality, responsible for opportunities, with clear guidelines on success criteria the quality of controls and processes within that sector as Xchangings Sales opportunities approval process including well as for ensuring compliance with policies and procedures, Authority to Proceed and Contract legislation and the operation of risk management procedures.
a monthly review by the Xchanging Performance Committee Each sector Head of Quality reports to the business sectors XPC, a sub-committee of the XMB, of performance reports Managing Director and attends, by invitation, the EP Audit for each business sector.
This covers financial performance Committees relevant to their business sector.
and a detailed range of qualitative information such as The internal control environment will continue to be monitored customer satisfaction, service levels and the quality of and reviewed by the Board which will, where necessary, ensure processes.
This identifies the key operational issues and improvements are implemented.
actions required to address any deficiencies the maintenance of risk registers for each business sector Going concern and for other key parts of the Group, assessing the probability After making enquiries, the Directors consider that the Group and of those risks occurring, the consequences should those the Company have adequate resources and committed borrowing risks crystallise and the controls in place to mitigate them.
facilities to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable The registers and mitigating actions are monitored on an future.
Consequently, they continue to adopt the going concern ongoing basis within the respective sectors or business units basis in preparing the accounts.
The Group risk register incorporates risks The attention of shareholders is drawn to the independent pervasive or material to the whole Group and is reviewed at auditors report on page 65 which incorporates their report least annually by the XMB, the Board and the Audit Committee on corporate governance.
the Audit Committee routinely monitors the internal control environment through its review of control matters from both By order of the Board internal audit and external audit and other related reports from management Gary Whitaker company secretary 2 March 2009 Xchanging plc 57 2 XCH ar08 middle.
