Babcock International Group PLC 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Statement on Corporate Governance During the year to 31 March 2008 the Company complied with the provisions of section 1 of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006 the Combined Code.
This statement sets out how the principles of good governance in the Combined Code have been implemented.
Board, Directors and independence Chairman and Chief Executive functions There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Chief Executive which is set out in a statement of their respective roles and responsibilities approved by the Board.
A copy of this is available on the Companys website www.
Senior Independent Director During the year, Mr Rennocks was recognised by the Board as the Senior Independent Director to whom concerns could be conveyed by shareholders if they had concerns which had not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director.
The Board and Board balance We have two full-time Executive Directors, one non-independent Non-Executive Director and a Chairman.
In addition, throughout the year there were four Non-Executive Directors who were considered by the Board to be independent.
This met the Combined Code requirement for Board balance.
Those independent Directors were: Mr Shah, Sir Nigel Essenhigh, Mr Rennocks and Mr Crookenden.
On 9 June 2008, Mr Shah will have served as a Non-Executive Director for nine years and will consequently cease to be regarded by some shareholders as independent.
The Board is aware of the need to take steps to address the consequences of this in order to continue to meet the requirements of the Combined Code for at least half the Board excluding the Chairman to be independent.
Refreshing of the Board At the time of the AGM in July 2008, our Directors will have served on the Board as follows approximately : Gordon Campbell: 8 years Peter Rogers: 6 years Bill Tame: 6.5 years Lord Hesketh 15 years John Rennocks 6 years Dipesh Shah 9 years Sir Nigel Essenhigh 4 years Justin Crookenden 2.5 years Directors are normally reappointed at the first AGM following their appointment and then have to offer themselves for reappointment at least every three years.
It is the Companys policy to review rigorously the reappointment of Non-Executive Directors who have served more than six years.
As required by the Combined Code, the Board explains, in notes accompanying the notice of meeting on page 104, why it recommends the reappointment of the Non-Executive Directors proposed for re-election at the AGM for 2008.
The Chairman confirms in those notes, also as required by the Combined Code, that, having formally evaluated their performance, the Board is of the view that they continue to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to their roles, including commitment of time for Board and, where applicable, committee meetings and other duties.
Board procedures During the year to 31 March 2008, there were nine scheduled Board meetings.
Each Director attended all those meetings, with the exception of Lord Hesketh who was unable to attend one of the meetings due to his absence abroad.
Three special additional short-notice Board meetings were held during the process leading up to the acquisition of Devonport Management Limited that were attended by the Directors then available.
The Board has also generally authorised the holding of ad hoc meetings of two or more Directors to deal with matters generally in accordance with delegated authorities approved by the Board, including a Finance Committee.
It also from time to time establishes special committees for specific purposes, for example in connection with specific acquisitions.
The Chairman regularly meets Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors or other managers present.
During the year, a review of the performance of the Board as a whole, its committees and individual Directors was carried out by an independent facilitator who conducted individual confidential interviews with each of the Board members, the Company Secretary and certain senior Group employees.
The results of those interviews were reported to the Chairman who shared them with Board members.
The review concluded that the Board and its committees, and individual Directors, were working very well.
It was agreed that succession planning should be an area of focus.
The Chairmans performance was evaluated by the Remuneration Committee and was also discussed in confidence with the independent facilitator during the process mentioned above.
All Directors have full and timely access to information.
Change in Chairmans significant external commitments During the year there were no changes to the Chairmans significant external commitments.
Babcock International Group PLC 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Statement on Corporate Governance continued Board Committees Details of the membership and operation of the Audit and Risk Committee and its work can be found on page 44 and of the Remuneration Committee on pages 45 to 53.
Nominations Committee In the year to 31 March 2008, the Nominations Committee consisted of: G Campbell Committee Chairman D J Shah J Rennocks Sir Nigel Essenhigh The Rt Hon Lord Hesketh J Crookenden Membership of this Committee is open to all the Non-Executive Directors provided there is a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Its terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
During the year, the Committee did not need to meet formally, as discussions on succession planning were held in the course of Board meetings or in meetings between the Group Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors in the absence of executive management.
Whistle-blowing arrangements These arrangements are dealt with in the Corporate and Social Responsibility section on page 22.
Non-audit fees The Audit and Risk Committee Chairman must authorise any engagement of auditors on non-audit work that would entail their being paid fees in excess of 20% of the audit fee in any year.
Before giving that authority, he considers potential conflicts and the possibility of actual or perceived threats to the independence of the external auditors.
Authority is given only when he considers it is in the Companys interest to do so.
Contact with shareholders The Group has a full-time Head of Investment Relations whose role it is to ensure that there is regular dialogue between the Company, its principal shareholders and the wider market so that there is a clear understanding of their respective views and that investors have a good understanding of the Company and its management.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director regularly meet institutional shareholders and analysts.
Reports of these meetings are sent to the Board, which also receives at each of its meetings an Investor Relations Report from the Head of Investment Relations.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity for communication with shareholders.
All of the Companys Directors attended the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
The Companys website keeps shareholders abreast of developments.
It is regularly updated with press releases and analyst presentations.
Shareholders can register on the website to be sent news releases automatically.
Information and training for Directors The Company makes arrangements for new Non-Executive Directors to make induction visits to the Groups principal operations and to be provided with full information about them.
Non-Executive Directors may at any time make visits to Group businesses or operational sites and Board visits are also made to sites.
Presentations on the Groups businesses and specialist functions are made to the Group Board from time to time.
Non-Executive Directors receive copies of all minutes of meetings of the Group Executive Committee and regularly receive the operating reports sent to the Group head office by the business operations.
General Director training that might be of potential interest or relevance to Directors can be arranged on request, for which the Company is willing to pay.
Going concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors have, after making enquiries, a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Babcock International Group PLC 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Internal controls, control environment, procedures and monitoring The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls, and for monitoring its effectiveness.
There is a written delegation of matters from the Board to committees of one or more Directors.
The Board retains responsibility for setting overall strategy, approving annual budgets, authorising equity investments and business acquisitions and disposals, approving significant contracts outside the ordinary course of business and setting treasury and borrowing policy.
There has been a process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks throughout the year to 31 March 2008 and up to the date of the approval of the financial statements for that year.
The internal control system is monitored through review visits from Group management and the internal audit service provided by Ernst & Young LLP, which acts under the overall control and direction of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The system covers any material joint ventures or associates.
The Board and its Audit and Risk Committee review the effectiveness of the process formally at least once a year.
They also review it informally on an ongoing basis by identifying its various elements and by seeking the views of executive management and internal and external auditors upon it as to its operation and how it compares with processes in other companies.
It is also assessed by considering it against operational outcomes.
The Board considers the system to be effective and in accordance with Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
The system comprises principally: a risk identification, evaluation and management process: clear delegations and limits of authority: clear authorisation and review procedures: independent internal audits: regular review by the Audit and Risk Committee of risk registers and internal and external audit reports: regular divisional operating reviews attended by Group executive management: regular contract review meetings: monthly reporting of results against budget and forecast, with variances explained: an annual presentation on tax matters to the Board: an annual Board review of the insurance programme: reviews, at least annually, of pensions exposures and risks: monthly reports on disputes and litigation: a formal succession plan: monthly reports on health and safety matters.
The Groups systems can, however, only seek to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, as any system can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Identification and evaluation of risks and control objectives The identification and evaluation of risks and control objectives is also addressed on pages 25 to 27.
Budgets Comprehensive systems are in place to develop annual budgets and medium-term financial plans.
The budgets are reviewed by central management before being submitted to the Board for approval.
Updated forecasts for the year are prepared at least quarterly.
The Board is provided with details of actual performance each month compared with budgets, forecasts and the prior year, and is given a written commentary on significant variances from approved plans.
