Babcock International Group PLC 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee Who is on it?
The Committee members during the year each served throughout the year were all independent Non-Executive Directors: J Rennocks Committee Chairman D J Shah Sir Nigel Essenhigh J Crookenden Biographical details of the members are set out on page 36.
Mr Rennocks is a former Finance Director of Corus Group PLC and is considered by the Board to have the necessary recent and relevant financial experience for his role as Committee Chairman.
The Committees formal terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee invites the Groups Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and Financial Controller to attend its meetings.
Non-Executive Directors not sitting on the Committee are also welcome to attend.
The Group Risk Manager attends for discussion of Group risk reports and related items.
Ernst & Young LLP provides internal audit services to the Company.
 LLP is the Groups external auditor.
Both auditors usually attend all or part of the Committees meetings.
The Committee Chairman meets  and Ernst & Young in the absence of executive management, and other Committee members have the opportunity to do so.
The Committee met formally five times in the year to 31 March 2008.
Each Committee member attended all meetings.
In the year to 31 March 2008, the Committee: reviewed the preliminary and interim statements of results and the proposed announcements relating to them: reviewed the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 and the half year ended 30 September 2007 and internal and external auditors comments in connection with them: evaluated the effectiveness of internal controls: considered reports specifically evaluating the scope for fraud in the Groups operations and misreporting of results by business units: reviewed internal audit reports from Ernst & Young LLP and external audit reports from  LLP: considered the levels of audit fees and non-audit fees paid to auditors: agreed internal and external audit plans: reviewed the arrangements for confidential whistle-blowing: reviewed the Group risk standard and its implementation, together with Group risk reports: conducted a going concern review.
