Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report regime of authorisation levels and prior approval requirements for The Combined Code key corporate decisions and actions, are reviewed and updated annually by the Board.
Such matters reserved to the Board include, but are not limited to, approval of budgets and business plans, The Board is fully committed to the principle of best practice in major capital expenditure, major acquisitions and disposals, and corporate governance.
This report describes how the Company other key commitments.
Certain powers are delegated by the Board has applied the main principles of the Combined Code on Corporate to an Executive Committee which is a committee of the Board of Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council on June 2008 Xstrata Schweiz AG, the main trading subsidiary of Xstrata plc.
This Committee and a description of its powers are described on page 97.
During the year under review, the Company has complied with the provisions contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code, except, The Company has a policy based on the Model Code published with regard to membership of the Remuneration Committee Code in the Listing Rules, which covers dealings in securities and applies Provision B.
2.1 as the Chairman of the Committee is not considered to directors, persons discharging managerial responsibilities, and independent and save that no individual member of the Audit employee insiders.
Committee has been identied as having recent and relevant Five scheduled Board meetings were held during the year and financial experience Code Provision C. 3.1.
These two points one additional meeting was held.
Attendance by directors at Board are explained below.
meetings and at meetings of standing committees of the Board is shown below.
In addition, the Chairman held a separate meeting with the non-executive directors without the executive directors A.
Directors being present and the non-executive directors held a separate meeting without the Chairman being present.
All Board meetings are held in Switzerland.
1 The Board There are four formally constituted committees of the Board.
Details The Board is satisfied that it meets the requirements of the Code of attendance at Board and committee meetings is given below.
The in maintaining an effective Board which is collectively responsible role and work of these committees is described in detail on pages 95 for the success of the Company.
At the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2008, Claude Lamoureux was elected a director of the Company.
There were no other changes Attendance at Board meetings and committees of the Board to the membership of the Board during the year.
The Board, chaired Health, Safety, by Willy Strothotte, has 11 directors, comprising three executive Board 6 of Environment directors and eight non-executive directors.
The three executive which 5 were Audit Remuneration & Community Nominations directors are Mick Davis, the Chief Executive, Trevor Reid, Chief Director scheduled 4 3 4 5 Financial officer, and Santiago Zaldumbide, Chief Executive of Xstrata Mick Davis54 Zinc.
David Rough, an independent non-executive director is the Ivan Glasenberg65 Deputy Chairman.
The non-executive directors possess a range of experience and are of sufciently high calibre to bring independent Paul Hazen 42 judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, and resources Claude that are vital to the success of the Group.
Lamoureux 52 3 The Board is responsible for the governance of the Group on behalf Robert of shareholders within a framework of policies and controls which MacDonnell65 provide for effective risk assessment and management.
The Board Sir Steve Robson 54 provides leadership and articulates the Companys objectives and David Rough 64 3 4 5 strategy to achieve those objectives.
The Board sets standards of Trevor Reid 5 conduct, as documented in an approved Statement of Business Principles, which provide an ethical framework for all Xstrata Ian Strachan 43 4 businesses.
While the Board focuses on strategic issues, financial Willy Strothotte53 performance, risk management and critical business issues, it also Santiago has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved to it for decision.
Zaldumbide 5 These reserved matters which are documented in a comprehensive Elected on 6 May 2008 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 91 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued A.
5 Information and Professional Development A clear separation is maintained between the responsibilities of the As part of the annual Board evaluation process, the Board expressed Chairman and the Chief Executive.
This is documented in a statement its view that the Board papers are prepared to a high standard, are approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of circulated in a timely manner and provide all relevant information and the Board and creating the conditions for overall Board and individual directors were satisfied that the Board is kept informed of all areas of director effectiveness while the Chief Executive is responsible for overall major importance to the Company.
The Board was also satisfied that it performance of the Group including the responsibility for arranging the receives regular information on legal and regulatory developments and effective day-to-day management controls over the running of the Group.
procedures are in place to give directors the opportunity for further training in order to regularly update their skills and knowledge.
3 Board Balance and Independence All directors are made aware that they may take independent Of the eight non-executive directors, six are considered by the Board professional advice at the expense of the Company in the furtherance to be independent of management and free from any business or of their duties.
All directors had access to the advice and services of other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring of their independent judgement and two, Willy Strothotte and Ivan that all governance matters are complied with and assists with Glasenberg, are directors of Glencore International AG Glencore.
Willy Strothotte is Chairman and Ivan Glasenberg is Chief Executive Arrangements have been approved by the Board to ensure that new officer of Glencore.
The Board has considered these associations and directors should receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining considers the industry expertise and experience of these directors beneficial to the Group.
In addition, ongoing support and resources are provided to directors in order to enable them to extend and refresh their skills, David Rough is the Deputy Chairman and the Senior Independent knowledge and familiarity with the Company.
His role and responsibilities as the Senior Independent and training is provided in three complementary ways: regular updating Director are detailed in and formalised by Board resolution and, in with information on changes and proposed changes in laws and summary, are that he should be available to shareholders to discuss regulations affecting the Group or its businesses: arrangements, their concerns where the normal channels would not be appropriate including site visits, to ensure directors are familiar with the Groups for this purpose, to have contact with analysts and major shareholders operations: and opportunities for professional and skills training.
to obtain a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns, to chair the Nominations Committee and to lead the Board and director A.
The Board undertook an evaluation of its own performance and that The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure of its Committees and of its individual directors in accordance with that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully the Code.
The process was devised and conducted internally under considered.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors the direction of the Senior Independent Director, following the receive appropriate and timely information and brieng papers are previous years external process.
In general, directors were very distributed to all directors.
satisfied with the Boards performance and the Board is considered to The Board reviews annually the composition and chairmanship of its be t for purpose.
Medium-term succession planning was identied as standing committees, namely the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination an area of some concern, whilst there was agreement on the Groups and the Health, Safety, Environment & Community Committee.
It was agreed that Board evaluations, which are conducted annually, will be conducted by external evaluators every A.
4 Appointments to the Board three years.
The Nominations Committee ensures that there is a formal, rigorous A.
7 Re-election of Directors and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors.
Recommendations for appointments are made on merit and against Under the Articles, one-third of all directors are required to retire by objective criteria.
The report on the Nominations Committee is set rotation at each AGM and any director who, at the start of an AGM, out on pages 96 to 97. has been in ofce for more than three years since his election must retire.
Retiring directors may offer themselves for re-election.
The Following a search for a new independent non-executive director succession plan was updated and approved by the Board during the conducted on behalf of the Company by an independent search year to ensure there was a balance of skills and experience on the consultancy and led by the Nominations Committee, Mr Peter Hooley Board and to plan for an orderly refreshing of Board membership.
It is was invited to join the Board as an independent non-executive director proposed that Messrs Glasenberg, MacDonnell, Reid and Zaldumbide and will be proposed by the Board for election by the shareholders at will retire and Messrs Glasenberg, Reid and Zaldumbide will offer the Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2009.
Mr Hooley was Group themselves for re-election at the AGM on 5 May 2009.
Following the Finance Director of Smith & Nephew plc until 2006.
Since 2002, he appraisal of the non-executive directors, the Board was satisfied that has been a non-executive director of Cobham plc, the aerospace and each directors performance continues to be effective and that each defence group and is chairman of its Audit Committee.
He is also director continues to demonstrate commitment to the role, and a director and chairman of BSN medical, a medical textiles business.
recommended the re-election of the three directors.
With his extensive financial markets experience and a strong track record of creating shareholder value, the Board is confident that Mr Hooley will add significant value to Xstrata.
Mr Hooley has agreed to act as an independent external consultant to the Board with effect from 3 March 2009 until the AGM.
92 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 The Board sets overall policy and delegates the authority to implement B. Remuneration that policy to its commodity business units and supporting functions.
Group policies are established by head ofce management for application across the whole Group.
Remuneration is covered in the Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 107 and, with regard to the Remuneration Committee, on page 96. ii Risk Identication and Evaluation The Board considers effective risk management as essential to the achievement of the Groups objectives and has implemented a C. Accountability and Audit structured and comprehensive system across the Group.
The Group Risk Management Policy is published on the Xstrata website at www.
com as part of the Governance section.
C. 1 Financial Reporting The Xstrata approach to risk management is value driven and has the stated objective of ensuring an environment where we can The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced and condently grow shareholder value through developing and protecting clear assessment of the Companys position and prospects and the our people, our assets, our environment and our reputation.
The Board is satisfied that it has met this obligation.
This assessment is process is thorough and robust and is an essential element of the primarily provided in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Groups approach to business planning.
Report, and the Operating and Financial Review contained in this Report.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of Each commodity business unit and the head ofce carry out a the Consolidated Financial Statements are set out on page 110. comprehensive annual risk review and update its risk register accordingly.
Objectives in the business plan are aligned with risks and a C. 2 Internal Control summary of the key risks, related internal controls, accountabilities and General further mitigating actions that are planned is appended to the business An ongoing process in accordance with the Guidance of the Turnbull plan that is reviewed and approved by the Executive Committee.
Committee on internal control has been established for identifying, Progress against plans, significant changes in the business risk prole evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This and actions taken to address controls and mitigate risks are reported process has been in place throughout the year under review and up to quarterly to the Business Unit and Xstrata plc Audit Committees, as well the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
as to the Executive Committee and the Board as and when necessary.
The Audit Committee reviews this process and the effectiveness of The output of the process has been reviewed by the Group and the system of internal control by considering the regular reports from commodity business unit audit committees, and accords with the management on key risks, mitigating actions and internal controls, Turnbull Guidance.
management representations and assertions and the reports on risk management and internal control from Internal Audit, the External iii Information and Financial Reporting Systems Auditors and other assurance providers such as Health, Safety, The Groups comprehensive planning and financial reporting procedures Environmental and Community Management.
include detailed operational budgets for the year ahead and a threeyear rolling plan.
The Board reviews and approves the budget and plan.
The principal aim of the system of internal control is the management Plans and budgets are prepared on the basis of consistent economic of business risks that are significant to the fullment of the Groups assumptions determined by the Group Finance function.
Performance business objectives with a view to enhancing the value of the is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year through shareholders investment and safeguarding of assets.
The internal the monthly reporting of key performance indicators, updated forecasts control systems have been designed to manage rather than eliminate for the year together with information on the key risk areas.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Comprehensive monthly management reports on a divisional and consolidated basis, including updated forecasts for the year, are The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness prepared and presented to the Executive Committee by the Group of the system of internal control.
Detailed consolidated management accounts, together Control environment with an executive summary from the Chief Executive, are circulated The key elements and procedures that have been established to all directors on a monthly basis.
to provide an effective system of internal control are as follows: iv Investment Appraisal i Organisational Structure A budgetary process and authorisation levels regulate capital There is a well-dened organisational structure with clear operating expenditure.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
proposals are submitted to the Executive Committee in accordance with Board delegated authority limits.
A standardised format is used The way the Group conducts its business, expectations of management that includes a detailed calculation of return on equity.
Economic and key accountabilities are embodied in the Groups policies, its assumptions are consistent with those included in management reports Statement of Business Principles and Board Level Authority Limits.
and budgets and are agreed with Group Finance.
Reviews are carried The Group operates a decentralised management model with appropriate out after the project is complete, and for some projects during the authority delegated to Commodity Business Unit Boards for the Alloys, construction period, to monitor progress against plan: major overruns Coal, Copper, Nickel and Zinc Lead businesses.
The Business Units are are investigated.
Commercial, legal, sustainable development and responsible for profitability to the level of earnings before interest and financial due diligence work, using outside consultants, is undertaken taxation EBIT.
Business Unit Boards meet regularly and either the Group in respect of acquisitions as appropriate.
CEO or CFO attend as representatives of Head Ofce.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 93 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued v Treasury Committee D. Relations with Shareholders A Treasury Committee operates as a sub-committee of the Executive Committee of Xstrata Schweiz AG.
Its membership consists of the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer, the Group Treasurer and Group Controller.
The Committee recommends Group policy, which D. 1 Dialogue with shareholders is submitted to the Group Board for approval, relating to all aspects of The Company is required to have a dialogue with shareholders, based funding, management of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures on the mutual understanding of objectives, and it is the responsibility and it coordinates relationships with banks, rating agencies and other of the Board as a whole to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue does financial institutions.
The Committee monitors all significant treasury take place.
The Code recognises that most shareholder contact is activities undertaken by Group companies and ensures compliance with the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial officer.
the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, and other directors vi Internal Audit as appropriate, should maintain contact with major shareholders Internal Audit is an important element of the overall process by in order to understand their issues and concerns.
which the Executive Committee and the Board obtains the assurance The Board places considerable importance on effective communication it requires that risks are being properly identied, managed and with shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer, controlled.
Risk-based internal audit plans, prepared on an annual assisted by the Executive General Manager of Corporate Affairs, basis, are approved by the Audit Committee.
maintain regular dialogue with and give briengs throughout the Internal Audit completed a full programme of work in 2008, covering year to analysts and institutional investors and are involved in a the Business Units and Head Ofce, focusing in particular on the structured programme of investor, analyst and media site visits.
more significant risks and related internal controls identied in the risk Presentations are given by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial self-assessment process.
Findings and agreed actions were reported officer after Xstratas preliminary announcements of the year-end to management and to the Audit Committee.
results and at the half year.
Care is taken to ensure that any pricesensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional and The Group-wide internal audit function is supplemented by services private, at the same time in accordance with the Disclosure Rules and provided as required by KPMG LLP as an outsourced service provider.
vii Fraud Management The Senior Independent Director was available to shareholders for There is a formal Group policy relating to fraud management, any concern which contact with the Group Chairman, Chief Executive including reporting and investigation arrangements and, in line or Chief Financial officer failed to resolve or for which such contact with best practice, includes whistleblowing procedures.
independently operated condential hotlines in various countries in which the Group operates, through which employees or contractors All shareholders can obtain access to the Annual Report and Accounts or any other parties can report any breach of Xstratas Business and other current information about the Company through Xstratas Principles, including fraud.
The contact details are published in the website at www.
The Operating and Financial Reviews Statement of Business Principles which can be found on the Xstrata on pages 32 to 75 include a detailed report on the business and website at www.
All incidents reported are fully investigated and the results are reported to the Audit Committee.
D. 2 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors All directors normally attend Xstratas AGM and shareholders are A principle of the Code is that the Board should establish formal invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors after and transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply the formal proceedings have ended.
Shareholders at the meeting are the financial reporting and internal control principles and for advised as to the level of proxy votes received including percentages maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditors, for and against and the abstentions in respect of each resolution Ernst & Young LLP.
These responsibilities are delegated to and are following each vote on a show of hands.
discharged by the Audit Committee whose work is described on pages 95 to 96.
At the time of the listing in March 2002, shareholders in the old Xstrata AG were informed that the Company would offer shareholders The Audit Committee undertakes annually a comprehensive the opportunity to attend general meetings in Switzerland where the evaluation of the external auditors performance across the Group head ofce resides, even though the Company was incorporated and for the purpose of making a recommendation to the Board regarding has its registered ofce in England.
Given this history and the number the re-election of the external auditor at the AGM.
of shares still held in or through Switzerland, the Board continues to consider it is appropriate for the AGM to be held in Zug, Switzerland.
A live webcast will be provided of the AGM through Xstratas website www.
A telephone dial-in facility will also be provided on a listen-only basis.
94 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 The Board uses the AGM to communicate with institutional and The Audit Committee reports its activities and makes recommendations private investors and welcomes their participation.
At the AGM to the Board of Directors of Xstrata.
The Audit Committee met four on 6 May 2008, the Chairman and the Chairmen of the Audit, times during the year ended 31 December 2008.
During that year Remuneration, Nominations and HSEC Committees were present the Committee: to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at a reviewed for submission to Xstratas Board, the 2007 annual the Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2009 can be found in the financial statements and the 2008 interim financial statements Notice of the Meeting.
and reviewed the external auditors detailed reports thereon: Board Committees b approved the form in which interim management statements will be released by the Company: The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and HSEC Committees are available on the Companys website c reviewed the appropriateness of the Xstrata Groups accounting www.
policies: Audit Committee d regularly reviewed the potential impact on the Xstrata Groups The Audit Committee assists the Companys Board in discharging its financial statements of a range of matters which involve significant responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and internal judgement, estimation or uncertainty, and the possible impairment audits and controls, including reviewing Xstratas annual financial of xed asset values: statements, considering the scope of the Companys annual external e assessed and concluded that there was nothing of any materiality audit and the extent of non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, in the Litigation Report: approving the Companys internal audit programme, advising on the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of f reviewed the external auditors plan and scope for the audit of the Companys internal control systems, risk management systems, the Xstrata Group accounts, and approved their remuneration risk registers and the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
both for audit and non-audit work, and their terms of engagement.
In February 2008, the Audit Committee looked at the relation The Code recommends that all members of the Audit Committee between audit and non-audit fees over the last six years.
There should be non-executive directors, all of whom are independent in was some volatility in non-audit fees which reected years of character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances major acquisitions.
Otherwise the audit fees were in line with which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement Xstratas peers.
Non-audit fees paid to the auditors were higher and that at least one member should have recent and relevant than the peer group due to a number of major acquisitions: financial experience.
The Audit Committee comprises four independent non-executive directors: Sir Steve Robson Chairman g recommended to the Board the reappointment of the external of the Audit Committee, Claude Lamoureux, David Rough and Ian auditors following an evaluation of their effectiveness and Strachan.
The Board considered membership of the Committee during conrmation of auditor objectivity and independence: the year and, while bearing in mind the Combined Code provision h examined the effectiveness of the Companys risk management that at least one member of the Audit Committee should have recent system including its risk management process and prole, and relevant financial experience, declared its satisfaction that the the Companys internal control systems and operations which members of the Committee have requisite skills and attributes, and were examined and tested by the internal auditors.
The Audit collectively have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to Committee reviewed counterparty risk management processes.
discharge its role and responsibilities.
The Board therefore considers Counterparty risk is monitored weekly to identify any that it complies with Combined Code recommendations regarding the concentration of risk: composition of the Audit Committee and is consistent with the main principle in C. 3 of the Code and contributes to good governance.
i reviewed the structure and limits of the Xstrata Group insurance policies, and these were considered to be appropriate: The Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer, the Group Controller, representatives of Xstratas external auditors and the Head of Internal j reviewed and approved the internal audit plans for 2008, Audit normally attend the meetings.
Other directors of the Company the effectiveness of the internal audit function and, at each and senior management may also, on invitation by the Committee, meeting, reviewed the reports on findings and on progress attend and speak, but not vote at any meeting of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also requested In order to further enhance communication and best practice, the a report at each meeting in respect of major projects in terms chairmen of the Companys Business Unit Audit Committees and the of achievement of agreed control objectives and project chief executives of the business units are also invited to attend the Audit management delivery targets: Committee meetings on a rotational basis.
k reviewed a Statement of Reserves and Resources, reviewed by an independent expert to ensure consistency of reporting across the Group and with international standards: l approved a statement on the process by which the Audit Committee and Xstratas Board review the effectiveness of internal control: and m reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements, the report on whistleblowing and fraud related matters.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 95 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Following each Committee meeting, separate meetings were held by The Remuneration Committees activities in respect of the year the Committee with the external auditors in the absence of executive ended 31 December 2008 included: management, with executive management in the absence of the a determining the bonuses for 2007 performance and salaries external auditors and with the internal auditor in the absence of for 2009 for the executive directors and members of the executive management and the external auditors.
Executive Committee: The Group has a specic policy governing the conduct of non-audit b recommending for approval by the Board, a revised fee structure work by the external auditors which ensures that the Company is for non-executive directors to apply from 1 January 2008: in compliance with the requirements of the Combined Code and the Ethical Standards for Auditors published by the Auditing c determining the vesting percentage applicable to awards under Practices Board.
the Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 which vested in March 2008, approving the number of share options and contingent share The auditors are permitted to provide non-audit services that are awards to be awarded under the 2008 Long Term Incentive not in conict with auditor independence.
Six-monthly reports are Plan awards and the individual awards to members of the made to the Audit Committee detailing non-audit fees paid to both Executive Committee: the external and internal auditors.
However, prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for each specic service provided d agreeing a policy in respect of the vesting of awards under by the external auditors.
A range of non-audit services has been the Long Term Incentive Plan for scheme participants who pre-approved in principle by the Audit Committee.
However, where retire from employment with the Group: the fee is likely to be in excess of $100,000 for such services, specic e approving an award under the Added Value Incentive Plan re-approval is required, while prior approval of the Chief Financial to the Chief Executive: officer is required for those pre-approved services where the fee is likely to be less than $100,000.
f approving proposed amendments to the Added Value Incentive Plan and the text of a circular submitted to the 2008 AGM for The Audit Committee is supported and assisted in its work by separate approval by the shareholders: Audit Committees for each Commodity Business Unit in line with the decentralised commodity business unit model.
The Business Unit g clarifying the rules regarding the treatment of deferred bonuses Audit Committees are independent of the executive management in the event of a change of control: of the Business Unit and are chaired by suitably qualied individuals h approving the amount of the total award to be granted under independent of Xstrata.
The terms of reference of these Committees the Long Term Incentive Plan in 2009: and follow those of Xstratas Audit Committee.
Meeting dates precede those of Xstratas Audit Committee and minutes of their meetings i agreeing to changes to the Comparator Group of mining are circulated to Xstratas Audit Committee.
companies against which TSR performance will be measured in respect of future grants under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
Remuneration Committee The principal roles of the Remuneration Committee are: i to Details of Xstratas remuneration for executive directors, benets, share consider and determine all elements of the remuneration of the options, pensions entitlements, service contracts and compensation Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer and of the heads of payments are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 107. the major operating subsidiaries or business units of the Company A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed the Executive Group as dened by the Chief Executive: and ii to at the AGM.
determine targets for any performance-related pay schemes operated Nominations Committee by the Company.
At its meetings, the Remuneration Committee The Nominations Committee assists Xstratas Board in discharging makes recommendations to the Board in regard to all elements of its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
the remuneration for the executive directors and the members of the The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing, from Executive Group.
The Remuneration Committee receives independent time-to-time, the structure of Xstratas Board, identifying, evaluating advice on benchmarking and best practice.
The terms of reference of and recommending candidates for Board vacancies and making the Remuneration Committee conform with the terms of reference recommendations on the continuation of existing directors in ofce set out in the Code.
The recommended revision of the fee structure to ensure there is a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge and for non-executive directors was approved by the Board as a whole.
The Committee also determines succession plans for the The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Willy Strothotte.
As chairman and chief executive officer, and assesses directors potential Chairman of Xstrata and Chairman of Glencore, he is not considered conict of interest situations and makes recommendations thereon to be an independent director and therefore is not compliant with to the Board.
The Board regards Willy Strothottes membership as critical The Committee comprises David Rough Committee Chairman, Ivan to the work of the Committee due to his extensive knowledge and Glasenberg and Robert MacDonnell.
Of these non-executive directors, experience of the global mining resources sector.
The Board considers Ivan Glasenberg is not considered independent.
that this is consistent with the main principle in Code B.
2 of the Code and contributes to good governance.
David Rough and Paul Hazen, the other members of the Committee, are both non-executive directors and independent.
The Committee met three times during the year.
The Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation but does not participate at a meeting of the Committee or during the relevant part at which any part of his remuneration is being discussed or participate in any recommendation or decision concerning his remuneration.
96 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Nominations Committee Executive Committee met five times.
Its activities in respect of that year included: The Executive Committee is a Committee of the Board of Xstrata Schweiz AG, the main direct subsidiary of Xstrata plc.
The Executive a reviewing the plan for the retirement by rotation and re-election of Committee obtains its responsibility and authority from the Xstrata directors of Xstrata and the framework for Board succession planning Schweiz AG Board and is directly accountable to the Xstrata plc for 2009 11 and recommending that all independent non-executive Board.
It is chaired by Mick Davis and comprises executive directors, directors appointed in 2002 should be replaced by 2011: Trevor Reid and Santiago Zaldumbide also Chief Executive of Xstrata b appointing an executive search consultancy to identify and propose Zinc together with the Chief Executives of the other Business Units, a shortlist of potential candidates for appointment to the Board in Charlie Sartain Xstrata Copper, Peter Freyberg Xstrata Coal, Ian 2009 and making recommendations thereon to the Board.
This is Pearce Xstrata Nickel, Peet Nienaber Xstrata Alloys, Benny Levene designed to take into account matters such as the size of Xstrata, Chief Legal Counsel and Thras Moraitis Executive General Manager, product diversity and geographical spread, as well as maintaining Group Strategy and Corporate Affairs.
Other members of senior a balance to the Board in relation to independent non-independent management are invited to attend Executive Committee meetings as members, their skills and experience: required.
The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing strategy, approval of matters consistent with its delegated levels of c overseeing the annual evaluation of the Boards performance, authority and overseeing the various businesses which comprise the its committees and directors: and Group.
It meets regularly during the year and no meetings are held d assessing directors potential conict of interest situations, in the UK.
proposing terms on which those situations might be authorised and recommending these for authorisation by the Board.
Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committee The principal roles of the Health, Safety, Environment & Community HSEC Committee are to review and make recommendations to the Board on the appropriateness and effectiveness of health, safety, environment and community strategy, systems and methodology.
It also reviews the results of any investigation into significant health, safety, environment and community incidents and keeps the Board informed of new developments, trends and or forthcoming significant legislation on health, safety, environment and community matters which may be relevant to the Xstrata Groups operations, its assets or employees.
The HSEC Committee comprises Ian Strachan, who chairs the HSEC Committee, Mick Davis, Claude Lamoureux and David Rough.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, the HSEC Committee met four times.
Its activities in respect of that year included: a monitoring and evaluating reports on the implementation and effectiveness of the Sustainable Development SD Policy, SD management standards, SD strategy and the SD Assurance Programme: b monitoring and evaluating the implementation and effectiveness of Xstrata Coal, Xstrata Alloys and Xstrata Zincs SD and HSEC strategies, plans and performance: c monitoring and evaluating reports on high potential risk HSEC incidents and the results of investigations into critical HSEC incidents, including facilities: d receiving a report on 2007 HSEC performance against targets and 2008 monthly performance: e monitoring and evaluating new developments, issues and or relevant legislation on HSEC matters: and f approving a policy on SD governance, SD performance in 2008 and approving the Sustainability Report.
