DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate governance The BAE Systems Board is always looking to move the Group forward Dick Olver Chairman The events that shook financial markets last year have made many directors reflect on their governance responsibilities and particularly their role in ensuring that, in the words of the Combined Code, there is a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
Much is demanded of directors of major companies and rightly so given the impact that the fortunes of such companies can have on the global economy.
As directors we need to continually challenge the way we operate and look to improve the effectiveness of how we as a board collectively discharge our duties and provide leadership.
I hope that this report provides you with a wider understanding of aspects of our governance framework and practices, which together with the other reports in this section, details how we apply the Combined Code principles.
The BAE Systems Board is always looking to move the Group forward and is determined that it shall be recognised as a global leader in responsible business.
Appointing the Woolf Committee was a good example of this and, as Lord Woolf wrote, this has provided a route map for the Company to establish a global reputation for ethical business conduct that matches its reputation for outstanding technical competence.
In advance of its publication, the Board committed to act on any recommendations made in the Committees report and these are being carefully addressed as part of a three-year programme.
For its part, the Board will, amongst other things, undertake further ethics awareness training in 2009.
The board of a company stands at the apex of its governance structure and its effectiveness is critical to the governance of the company as a whole.
There is no definitive guide as to what makes an effective board.
The UKs Combined Code on corporate governance does provide clear principles of good governance practice.
However, it is just a framework, and it is for individual boards to determine how they can maximise their effectiveness.
A large part of this comes down to how use is made of the time and talents available to the board: and the annual performance evaluation required by the Code is an important tool in helping a board to collectively reflect on whether it is operating effectively and pointing out the areas where improvements can be made.
The BAE Systems Board has recently completed its annual performance evaluation.
For the past four years we have engaged in the same process, using an external facilitator to undertake one-to-one interviews with all the directors.
This provides a rich source of information not just on the Boards performance but also on that of individual directors and of myself as Chairman.
com Through the evaluation we try to ensure that as a board we are for the current year and financial projections for the following spending the right amount of time on the right things.
Reflecting the long-term nature of much of the Groups the BAE Systems Board held nine meetings plus a day spent business, part of the development of strategy involves analysing conducting a strategy review.
Looking back over the time we the business over the following ten years.
The process is allocated to various matters at these meetings and analysing this undertaken annually and culminates in the Board approving the under a few generic headings provides the following analysis: Group strategy and financial five-year plan.
At each scheduled meeting, the Board monitors performance against the agreed plan.
Lifecycle Management LCM Other The purpose of LCM is to provide a structured approach to 3% Governance 8% Training and managing the Groups commitments and investments throughout awareness 26% project and product lifecycles, facilitating continuous improvement.
This includes the bidding process, including the authority required 31% for the submission of contract bids and tenders, most of which are managed on a delegated basis.
However, the larger bids require Strategy M&A Operational Board approval and, during 2008, it considered and authorised a performance number of major contract bids.
The LCM process is essential for 32% the management of long-term contracts and mandates that key risks are identified and managed at different stages through the life of a project or product, which can run into tens of years.
Importantly, LCM also covers the period before a contract is This analysis is fairly basic but I think it fairly represents the awarded, or even bid for.
This helps to ensure that risks are work of the BAE Systems Board last year and hopefully will provide understood, enabling informed decisions to be made to either some insight into how it operates.
As you can see, most time commit to a business opportunity or decline to bid if risks do was spent on operational performance and Strategy Mergers and not align to the reward potential.
The risks identified by the LCM Acquisitions M&A, with the rest of the time spent largely dealing process are also used as the basis for recognising profit on longwith governance matters.
The detail of what was included in these term contracts, ensuring that profit is only taken when risks on categories is discussed in more detail below.
Operational performance Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Process M&A This principally covers the Boards role in setting performance The purpose of the M&A process is to provide a structured targets and objectives for management and then monitoring approach to managing the Groups acquisitions, joint ventures and overseeing progress against these.
Plans are agreed and and disposals see page 68. objectives are set as part of the Groups core processes.
These are contained in the Operational Framework, a document that Performance Centred Leadership PCL details the way we do business and what it means to be part of The purpose of the PCL framework is to provide an integrated BAE Systems.
It is based on principles of good governance, a set approach to management, resourcing and people development.
of definitions, values, policies and processes that guide our work This process addresses objective setting and performance and behaviour, and a clear system of delegated authority.
Through assessment: making sure that the targets used to reward the Operational Framework the Board has mandated five core executive performance are set as part of the strategic and business management processes that have been developed by financial planning processes that are part of the routine the Group over a number of years and are at the heart of our management of the whole Group.
The process for the setting performance delivery.
of objectives for executives is initiated firstly by the Chairman developing non-financial objectives with the Chief Executive.
In brief these processes are: These are then forwarded to the Remuneration Committee for Integrated Business Plan IBP its consideration.
The Remuneration Committee in consultation The purpose of the IBP process is to assess and monitor the with the Corporate Responsibility Committee for corporate Groups ability to maximise value in accordance with its strategy  matters agrees appropriate non-financial and objectives.
It consists of a strategic plan, a financial forecast objectives for the executive directors and also financial objectives BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 67 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued based on the output from the IBP process.
The Remuneration for the Board to exercise its judgement as to what is the appropriate Committee monitors performance against the objectives level of risk to take.
The quality of judgement exercised by a board throughout the year.
is heavily dependent on its awareness of the business.
A significant element of the time that we as a board spend on strategy involves Performance Management Process PMP developing a collective awareness of the strategic landscape.
At four The purpose of the PMP is to provide a structured approach of the eight scheduled board meetings last year excluding our whole and clear framework for the evaluation and management day strategy review we dedicated time to understanding different of performance in accordance with the Groups strategy and geographical markets, sectors adjacent to our traditional markets, objectives.
The IBP provides agreed business objectives and new and developing technologies and capabilities, and revisiting measures for the following year.
Performance against these strategic decisions we made in the past to check that there had is then monitored during the year using three levels of review: not been changes of which we needed to be aware.
individual executive, project and business.
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer BAE Systems, One area identified through the annual strategy planning process Inc. report to the Board on operational performance based on as being of strategic importance to the Group was establishing the information they receive through the PMP.
security businesses in our home markets.
This provides a good example of the Boards involvement in M&A activity.
Having As reported in the Performance section of this Annual Report, developed an awareness of the global security market, and from the Board uses a range of financial and non-financial performance that agreeing a strategic objective of growing this related market indicators when reviewing operational performance.
The financial segment, the Board was able to respond quickly when the Chief KPIs shown on pages 24 and 25 are reviewed at all scheduled Executive proposed that a bid should be made for the prime board meetings, with the non-financial KPIs see pages 26 and UK company operating in this sector, Detica.
Having made the 27 reviewed on a quarterly basis.
The non-financial KPI reporting decision to approach the Detica board with a view to acquiring is managed by a central department, the Centre for Performance the company, the Board thereafter managed the acquisition Excellence, which in consultation with the Board has developed through a committee of the Board that met on four occasions the metrics to meet its performance reporting needs and is during the summer of 2008. tasked with ensuring that the information is accurate and timely.
Governance Strategy M&A This covers the role of the Board in setting the Groups values This covers the Boards involvement in developing and agreeing and standards, ensuring that the appropriate governance the Groups future strategy, and the implementation of that structures and controls are in place and operating effectively, strategy where it involves major M&A activity.
and reporting on these matters to shareholders.
The Group has developed an annual strategy review process that The Board agrees the structure of the Groups internal controls has been effective in driving the strategic transformation of the and this includes setting the standards and values that govern Group over the last few years and delivering strong financial all that we do.
It looks to the Audit Committee and Corporate performance.
You will see on pages 10 and 11 of this report Responsibility Committee to undertake most of the work involved details of the Group Strategic Framework that captures the topin monitoring and seeking assurance as to compliance with the level output from the IBP process.
This process is undertaken controls within this framework.
These committees are formed over a nine-month period each year and culminates in the Board of independent non-executive directors and are therefore approving the changes to the framework and agreeing the five-year appropriately structured to undertake the role.
However, the Board financial plan.
Integrating financial planning with the development as a whole must maintain oversight of such important matters of strategy ensures that business plans reflect the evolution of and after each committee meeting the chairmen of each of the our strategy, and resources are available and aligned with the Boards committees report on the matters they have dealt with.
implementation of the strategic objectives and actions that are identified in the Group Strategic Framework.
Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls is part of the Boards governance responsibilities.
The Audit and Corporate The IBP and the development of strategy are managed by the Responsibility committees have been tasked with reviewing and Chief Executive but the Board ultimately approves the financial seeking assurance as to the effectiveness of internal controls.
plan and strategy each year, and has an important role to play The chairmen of the committees report regularly to the Board in constructively challenging the plans based on the wider on this and other activities they undertake, thereby ensuring that perspective and different skills and knowledge that the nonall directors have visibility and the opportunity to discuss such executive directors bring to the Board.
At a number of its meetings matters see pages 70 and 73. held through the year the Board has specific agenda items covering the development of strategy.
It also spends a whole day each year One of the most important decisions that the Board took last undertaking a detailed review of strategy, which coincides with year was to appoint a new Chief Executive.
In last years report its review of the financial plan for the next five years.
From this, I outlined the process that the Board had adopted in seeking the Board has an awareness of the growth profile of the Groups a new Chief Executive, which began with the invaluable work the existing businesses over this period and how different strategic Nominations Committee had undertaken in the last few years in options can be overlaid on the plan.
This helps the Board to plan overseeing the development of our succession and management the evolution of the strategic shape of the Group and thereby resource planning processes.
This meant that from day one of our establish the foundations for long-term growth.
search our internal succession planning processes were indicating Setting strategy is an important element of total risk management.
that in Ian King we had an excellent internal candidate.
However, Certain risks facing a company will be structural in nature and such given the importance of this position, the Committee worked risks need to be recognised and mitigated by long-term strategic through a thorough process, undertaking a global search looking at planning.
Also, strategic change itself usually involves risk and it is various external candidates.
Having completed the search process 68 www.
com the Committee concluded that Ian King was the strongest candidate Company.
The survey is undertaken by a third party consultant and nominated him for appointment.
The Board duly appointed him who interviews the shareholders and delivers his findings directly to the Board.
Chief Executive with effect from the beginning of September 2008.
The Annual General Meeting AGM provides all shareholders I began by commenting on the value of performance evaluation and using that as the basis for continually improving on how we with the opportunity to meet with the Company, ask questions discharge our responsibilities as a board.
In the table below we and give their views on its performance.
We recognise that not have summarised how the Board performed against the objectives all shareholders can attend the AGM and last year a number set for 2008 and those we have set for this year.
of shareholders took advantage of our new Frequently Asked Questions FAQ facility.
This facility enables shareholders to The performance evaluation process also looks at how individual e-mail or post questions to us and for the Company to provide directors and the Boards committees have performed.
I meet answers to the most frequently asked questions at the meeting with all directors individually and provide them with an appraisal and also post these on our website.
The FAQ facility will be of their performance based on feedback from the process.
Where available again this year.
The Company tries to make attendance a director chairs a committee I also provide him with feedback on at our AGM rewarding in terms of participating in this essential his performance in chairing it and how effective the committee governance process and in developing a better understanding of has been in performing its duties.
Finally, the Senior Independent the business.
I urge as many shareholders as possible to attend Director receives feedback on my performance as Chairman so the meeting on 6 May 2009. that he can meet with the non-executive directors and discuss my performance before discussing this with me.
Shareholder communications The Board recognises the importance of ensuring that there is a dialogue with shareholders so that it understands issues or concerns they may have.
A comprehensive investor relations programme has been in place for many years.
This is managed by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director who meet with the Companys largest shareholders on a regular basis.
I also maintain a dialogue with our larger shareholders and their representative bodies.
For example, last year I held meetings with investors to explain how we will be implementing the recommendations in the Woolf Report, and answering questions they had.
To assist the Board in its understanding of any issues and concerns investors may have, each year it is presented with the results of a survey undertaken across our twenty largest Dick Olver Chairman shareholders who together control more than 25% of the Board performance evaluation objectives 2008 Objectives 2008 Achievements 2009 Objectives Engage non-executive and executive directors The Nominations Committee engaged with Maximise the effectiveness of the strategy in dialogue to ensure smooth and transparent all directors and managed the Chief Executive planning process and continue to visit selection and transition of the new appointment process.
The Board then appointed operational sites to develop further the Boards Chief Executive.
an internal candidate and has supported a awareness and understanding of the Group.
Continue to engage with management in Board to conduct additional site visits as part Board members visited Oman and Saudi Arabia studying and developing the actions needed of its meeting programmes.
In addition, non-executive directors to exploit global markets.
opportunity to meet with senior management to visited the Submarine Solutions and Insyte Support the Chief Executive in ensuring the support succession planning.
Woolf Report recommendations are implemented Understand and review the competencies, The Board studied globalisation opportunities across the Group, ensuring all staff and external processes and culture required to support the in the defence sector before and during the stakeholders are engaged.
annual strategy session and approved four Provide support to the new Chief Executive global initiatives.
Ensure that ethical and reputational implications The Board committed to implementing all the Focus on KPIs, ensuring they continue to of strategic growth options are explored and Woolf Committees recommendations before provide the right level of performance oversight, understood.
Plan for and commence embedding the final report was delivered in May 2008. and periodically take a more in-depth look at the Woolf Committee recommendations.
The Company subsequently set up teams to specific programmes.
create and act upon plans for implementation.
Ensure attention remains focused on near-term Keep attention focused on programme KPIs.
Directors regularly reviewed the Programme .
Margin Variation and Schedule Adherence metrics that are used to provide oversight of contract performance.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 69 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Activities Audit Committee Report One of the Committees principal responsibilities is to monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any significant judgements that need to be made in their production.
A sound system of internal controls is essential for reliable financial reporting and also for the effective management of the Group.
In assessing the quality of the control environment the Committee received reports during the year from the Groups Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and the Groups Internal Audit function on the work they had undertaken in reviewing and auditing the control environment.
The Group has a well defined controls framework based on a set of core processes that have been developed over a number of years.
Michael Hartnall This is documented in the Operational Framework.
Twice during the Audit Committee year the Committee reviewed the results of the Groups Operational Chairman Assurance Statements OAS process, through which senior managers across the Group report on the quality of their businesses implementation and compliance with the policies Members mandated in the Operational Framework.
The Committee also Michael Hartnall Chairman reviewed the output from the OAS process that requires managers Sir Peter Mason to report on significant risks to the delivery of their business plans Roberto Quarta and the status of plans to mitigate such risks.
As part of its review of the Groups financial reporting, the Committee reviews significant financial reporting judgements.
Responsibilities The areas in which such judgements are required change over Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, time, and to assist the Committee in understanding these it internal control policies and procedures for the identification, reviewed with the Groups Auditors their assessment of the assessment and reporting of risk.
Groups principal financial reporting and control risks.
As well as Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Internal Audit indicating where significant accounting judgements are required, function including approving the appointment or removal of this risk assessment was also used to direct the audit work the Director of Internal Audit.
Considering and making recommendations to the Board To gain a greater awareness of the Groups operations and, in on the appointment of the Auditors.
particular, to understand in more detail the implementation of core control processes, the Committee has for a number of years Keeping the relationship with the Auditors under review, met with the management of different businesses.
During 2008, including the terms of their engagement and fees, their the Committee met with senior executives from the Groups independence and expertise, resources and qualification.
Electronics & Integrated Solutions business based in Nashua, Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
New Hampshire and also with the management of the Insyte business at its New Malden site near London.
Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
Last year, the regulations in the UK concerning periodic financial The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be found reporting for listed companies were revised.
As a result of this on the Companys website or can be obtained from the the Company was required to publish Interim Management Company Secretary.
Statements in the periods between the publication of its full and half-yearly reports.
The Committee reviewed these statements prior to their publication in May and October 2008.
Governance The Audit Committee was in place throughout 2008 and all its To discharge its responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function, the Committee reviewed members were independent in accordance with provision A.
3.1 the results of an evaluation of the functions performance across of the Combined Code.
This covered different aspects of the functions remit Mr Hartnall has been chairman of the Committee since 2003. and reported on work planning, access to skills and knowledge, He was formerly the finance director of a FTSE 100 company and quality of reporting, implementation of audit recommendations is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and its independence.
With regard to the Auditors, the Committee evaluated their The Committee has asked that the Chief Executive, Group Finance effectiveness and reviewed and agreed the fees they were paid Director, Director Financial Control, Reporting and Treasury and the in respect of their audit work.
In 2008 this formed part of a Director of Internal Audit normally attend its meetings.
However, wider review of external audit performance and effectiveness during the year, the Committee held individual meetings without undertaken by the Committee on a triennial basis.
On the basis Group executives present, without the Director of Internal Audit of this review the Committee recommended to the Board that it present and also with only the external auditors present.
recommend that shareholders support the re-appointment of the The Committee met six times in 2008.
Auditors at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
com The Committee accepts that certain work of a non-audit nature is reviewed the Interim Management Statements issued by the best undertaken by the Auditors.
The Committee reviews regularly Company in May and October 2008: the amount and nature of non-audit work they perform and did so agreed the approach and scope of the audit work to be in 2008.
It believes that it is not appropriate to limit the level of undertaken by the Auditors: such work by reference to a set percentage of the audit work fee, agreed the fees to be paid to the Auditors in respect of the as this does not take into account important judgements that need to be made concerning the nature of work undertaken.
2008 audit: However, the Committee has agreed the following rules with reviewed the fees paid to the Auditors in respect of non-audit regard to non-audit work undertaken by the Auditors: work undertaken during the year: any non-audit work to be undertaken by the Auditors in excess received assurances from the Auditors regarding their of 250,000 must be authorised by both the Chairman of the independence: Audit Committee and the Group Finance Director: undertook a comprehensive review of the Auditors performance, no partner director of the Auditors worldwide audit team shall including fee benchmarking, management performance be employed by the Group within two years of the conclusion evaluation, client service review and future audit strategy: of a relevant audit: undertook an evaluation of the Groups Internal Audit function: no qualified member of the worldwide audit team at manager received a report from the Director of Internal Audit on the work level or below is to be employed by the Group within two years undertaken by the Internal Audit function: of the conclusion of a relevant audit: and received a presentation on the Groups tax affairs: no partner director of the Auditors not associated with the audit is to be employed by the Group without the approval reviewed the Groups processes for disclosing information to the of the Group Finance Director and the Chairman of the Auditors and the statement concerning such disclosure in the Audit Committee.
Annual Report: and During the year the committee chaired by Lord Woolf published its reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
report on the Groups ethical policies and processes.
One of the On behalf of the Audit Committee recommendations contained in the report was that the Corporate Responsibility and Audit committees should hold at least one joint meeting a year to decide on the preparation of the annual internal Michael Hartnall Audit Committee Chairman audit programme.
The first such meeting was held last November, at which the Director of Internal Audit reported to the two committees on the work that was being undertaken reviewing the recommendation in the Woolf Report concerning ethical business conduct assurance activity.
At the meeting, the committees agreed the approach that would be taken in agreeing the annual programme of activity to be undertaken by Internal Audit.
Summary of work undertaken by the Audit Committee in the last 12 months: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and the disclosures made in the Annual Report on this matter: reviewed the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risk: received a report from the Auditors on their review of the effectiveness of controls across the Group: reviewed half-yearly risk assessments detailing major financial and non-financial risks and the status of actions identified to mitigate such risks: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups helpline procedures in respect of the reporting of possible accounting, financial control and other financial irregularities: reviewed the financial statements in the 2007 and 2008 Annual Report and the 2008 Half-Yearly Report, and received a report from the Auditors on the statements: reviewed the basis for preparing the Group accounts on a going concern basis, and strengthened the process for reviewing the analysis supporting the going concern judgement and disclosures in the financial statements: BAE BAE Systems Systems Annual Annual Repor Reportt 2008 2008 71 71 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Activities Corporate Responsibility During 2008 the Corporate Responsibility Committee evolved further its role in providing oversight and strategic direction to Committee Report social, ethical and environmental matters within BAE Systems.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors and as such are able to exercise independent oversight and provide advice based on the experience and knowledge of its members.
The primary focus of the Committee in 2008 was providing review and oversight of the Groups performance against its corporate responsibility objectives.
When the Woolf Committee issued its report following its review of the Companys ethics policies and processes it recognised the Andy Inglis value of the Committees governance structure.
The Woolf Report Corporate Responsibility recommended that the Corporate Responsibility Committee should Committee Chairman have a key role in providing oversight and reporting on standards of ethical business conduct and reputational risk, and in performing this duty its role would be analogous to that of the Members Groups Audit Committee.
To assist the Committee in undertaking Andy Inglis Chairman the role recommended by Woolf, we agreed that the Committee Sir Nigel Rudd should engage an external party to undertake assurance work Ravi Uppal similar in some ways to the role of the Groups Auditors and its relationship with the Audit Committee.
The Committee ran the Mr Weinberg was a member of the Committee and its Chairman process for the selection of an assurance provider and approved for the period up to 7 May 2008.
Mr Inglis was appointed the appointment of Deloitte to undertake this role.
Chairman of the Committee with effect from that date.
Deloitte will provide assurance over aspects of the programme Mr Carroll stood down from the Committee on 7 May 2008 and for the implementation of the recommendations in the Woolf Mr Uppal joined the Committee with effect from that date.
Report and assurance over selected subject matter in the separate 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report to be published by the Group.
In managing the relationship with Deloitte we will Responsibilities be introducing similar practices to those adopted by the Audit Assisting the Board in overseeing the development of strategy Committee to manage its relationship with the Groups Auditors.
and policy on social, environmental and ethical matters.
This will include agreeing on a regular basis the annual assurance Monitoring and reviewing the Groups performance in strategy, the scope of work and the fee payable for this.
In managing social, environmental, ethical and reputational risk.
addition, the Committee will agree their terms of engagement and also review their independence and effectiveness.
Overseeing and supporting key stakeholder engagement on social, environmental and ethical issues.
The Woolf Committee recommended that the Group adopt a Global Code of Conduct.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee was The full terms of reference of the Corporate Responsibility closely involved in overseeing the production of the Code.
The Committee can be found on the Companys website or can Global Code of Conduct was launched across the Group at the be obtained from the Company Secretary.
beginning of 2009 and one of the Committees priorities for this year will be to monitor the quality of the roll-out process that is aimed at ensuring that a common language and set Governance of expectations regarding business conduct are embedded The Corporate Responsibility Committee was in place throughout throughout the Group.
2008 and all its members were independent in accordance with The Committee met with Ian King, the Groups Chief Executive, to provision A.
discuss priorities in this area.
We agreed with his view that ethics, During the year, the Nominations Committee reviewed the health and safety and diversity should be the prime focus for the membership of the Committee and nominated Mr Uppal as Group and therefore for the Committees activities.
However, the a member and nominated Mr Inglis to chair the Committee Committee will continue to monitor the Groups performance in following Mr Weinbergs retirement from the Board.
other important corporate responsibility areas, such as the environment and our social and community responsibilities.
The Committee has asked that the Chief Executive, Group General Counsel, Group Human Resources Director, Managing Director During 2008, the Committee continued its activity in overseeing Corporate Responsibility and the Director of Internal Audit and monitoring the Groups performance in protecting the health normally attend its meetings.
and safety of our employees, and everyone working at or near our The Committee met five times in 2008. sites.
This included looking at how health and safety is managed and led throughout the Group, the development of standards and the indicators used to monitor performance.
To assist members of the Committee in their understanding of the management of health and safety, and other corporate responsibility matters, the Committee will be holding certain of its future meetings at 72 www.
The first such meeting was held in 2008, when the agreed the process for the creation of the Global Code of Committee visited the Barrow-in-Furness Submarine Solutions site.
Conduct and agreed the final draft of the Code: Since its formation four years ago, the Committee has had received reports on the plans for the roll-out of the Global Code access to the audit and assurance services provided by the of Conduct across the Group: Groups Internal Audit function, and that function will continue met with the Groups then two Chief Operating Officers and to provide valuable services to the Committee that complement reviewed with them the management of health and safety the independent assurance activities that Deloitte will provide.
across the Group: The Director of Internal Audit attends all of the Committees oversaw the search for a third-party provider of corporate meetings and presents the findings from audits involving areas responsibility assurance services and approved the appointment covered by its terms of reference.
He also provides details of the of Deloitte to perform this role: output from the Groups Operational Assurance Statement process that provides assurance as to compliance with the Groups core received reports from the Director of Internal Audit on corporate control polices.
In his report on the activity of the Audit Committee  work undertaken by the Groups Internal see page 70, Michael Hartnall has reported on the joint meeting Audit function in 2008: held between the Audit and Corporate Responsibility committees held a joint meeting with the Audit Committee to agree the last year at which we agreed the approach we will take in approving approach to be taken with regard to agreeing the annual the annual programme of work to be undertaken by the Internal programme of work to be undertaken by the Internal Audit Audit function.
We have agreed that the committees should hold function: and two joint meetings in 2009 to ensure that audit and assurance work is co-ordinated effectively.
reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
To be effective the Committee needs be aware of what the key On behalf of the Corporate Responsibility Committee risks are to the value of the Group.
Therefore, during the year the Committee regularly reviewed the Non-Financial Risk register Andy Inglis Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman that is used by the Executive Committee to identify and manage reputational and non-financial risks and the impact they could have on the Groups value and reputation.
This risk analysis is used to help set the Committees priorities.
It is important that executive remuneration reflects not just basic financial performance but performance in areas such as those that are within the remit of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
To achieve this, the Committee has agreed that it will be consulted by the Remuneration Committee when agreeing the non-financial objectives for the executive directors bonus scheme.
In 2008 the Committee recommended objectives relating to ethics, and health and safety.
These were agreed by the Remuneration Committee and the Committee will oversee performance against these during 2009 and, in line with the process adopted with regard to the 2008 objectives, will make a recommendation as to the level of achievement against them.
Summary of work undertaken by the Corporate Responsibility Committee in the last 12 months: recommended to the Remuneration Committee corporate  leadership objectives for the executive directors annual bonus plan: reviewed the output from the Non-Financial Risk process that identifies and seeks to mitigate significant non-financial and reputational risks that could impact the Group: reviewed the Groups health and safety performance: reviewed the operation of the Ethics Helpline and the nature of the matters reported: agreed the corporate responsibility sections in the 2007 and 2008 Annual Reports and the separate Corporate Responsibility Reviews for those years: considered the recommendations from the Woolf Committee as they relate to the Committee: reviewed the plans for the implementation of the recommendations in the Woolf Report: BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 73 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Activities Nominations Committee Report In the first half of 2008, the Committees main focus was on managing the search for a new Chief Executive to succeed Mike Turner who retired at the end of August 2008.
The search process was initiated towards the end of 2007 and began with the Committee considering the succession plans that the Committee has assisted in developing over a number of years.
Under the heading of Chief Executive, these plans identified Ian King in the Ready Now category.
However, recognising the time available in which to conduct a search and the vital importance of this particular appointment, the Committee agreed that it should engage search consultants to review suitable candidates in the external global market.
Egon Zehnder International were selected by the Committee Dick Olver to conduct this search, and all directors were consulted by them and Nominations the Chairman as part of the search process.
Having completed the Committee Chairman process, the Committee nominated Ian King for appointment to the position of Chief Executive with effect from 1 September 2008.
Members The Committee was also active in 2008 in the appointment of Dick Olver Chairman new non-executive directors.
The Zygos Partnership was engaged Phil Carroll to assist the Committee in searching for suitable candidates for Sir Peter Mason nomination.
The search resulted in Carl Symon and Ravi Uppal being nominated and duly appointed to the Board.
These individuals broaden the global business experience available to the Board.
Responsibilities Reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition of In past years the Nominations Committee has reported on the the Board and making recommendations to the Board on succession planning processes that have been introduced across any desired changes.
the Group in recent years.
The management resource planning and development processes that are the basis of these plans Identifying and nominating for the Boards approval suitable are reviewed annually by the Committee.
Last year the Committee candidates to fill all vacancies for non-executive and, with reviewed the output from the succession and development process the assistance of the Chief Executive, executive directors.
looking at individual succession plans and analysing the overall Planning for the orderly succession of new directors to strength of the management resource, the development themes the Board.
that apply to the global senior management cadre and how these are being addressed.
Recommending to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility Finally, during 2008 the Nominations Committee reviewed and Remuneration committees.
the membership of Board committees following changes to the membership of the Board.
Andy Inglis was nominated to succeed The full terms of reference of the Nominations Committee can Peter Weinberg as chairman of the Corporate Responsibility be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from Committee and changes were recommended to the membership the Company Secretary.
of certain committees so as to ensure that full use was made of the time and expertise offered by our non-executive directors.
Governance On behalf of the Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee was in place throughout 2008.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company.
Whilst he is not deemed Dick Olver Nominations Committee Chairman to be independent, the other two members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors in accordance with provision A.
When dealing with any matters concerning the Chairmanship of the Board, the Chairman of the Committee will absent himself from meetings as required and Sir Peter Mason, the Boards Senior Independent Director, will take the chair.
The Committee normally asks the Chief Executive and Group HR Director to attend its meetings.
During the year, the Committee did meet without Group executives present.
The Committee met six times in 2008.
