Report of the Directors Corporate Governance The Board believes that, in terms of the overall direction and control of the Company, effective corporate governance will come principally from the values, standards and disciplines it seeks to apply in dealings with shareholders, customers, staff, suppliers, contractors and other stakeholders.
Many of the Companys core values and standards are set out in a range of procedures and practice guidelines communicated throughout the Group.
However, external governance codes set the framework for our internal standards and we therefore seek to comply with established best practice in all areas of corporate governance.
Statement of compliance with Code provisions The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Throughout the year ended 30 June 2008 the Company complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code.
The Board The Company is led and controlled by the Group Board.
The details of the Group Board Directors are set out on pages 20 and 21 of this report.
Mr C G Toner retired from the Board and as Chairman on 30 June 2008.
Mr R A Lawson took over as Chairman of the Company with effect from 1 July 2008.
At the end of the financial year the Board comprised eleven members, including the Chairman, six Non-Executive Directors and four Executive Directors.
The Company therefore complied during the relevant period with the principles of the Code in relation to the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The number and calibre of Non-Executive Directors on the Board, together with their diverse backgrounds and experience, also ensures that this principle is met.
In accordance with best corporate governance practice, the Companys Articles of Association require one-third of the current Directors to retire at each Annual General Meeting AGM.
Accordingly, Mr R MacEachrane and Mr C Fenton will retire by rotation and put themselves forward for re-election at this years AGM in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Articles.
In addition, Mr R A Lawson and Mr M E Rolfe will retire at this years AGM and offer themselves for election, having been appointed by the Board since the last AGM.
Mr R A Lawson is also the Chairman of the Board of Hays Plc and brings a wealth of experience and strong leadership to the Company.
Mr M E Rolfe is also a Non-Executive Director of the Sage Group Plc and Hornby Plc.
His track record and breadth of experience as a Finance Director is a great asset to the Company.
Following a formal evaluation process, the Company believes that the performance of Mr R MacEachrane continues to be effective and that he demonstrates commitment to his role.
On joining the Company, each new Director participates in an induction process which includes a meeting with all of the current Directors, provision of an induction pack, site visits and meetings with senior and operational management teams.
The Directors update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company by attending appropriate external seminars and training courses, and meeting with senior management and visiting regional and divisional operating offices.
The Board believes that the Chairman and all Non-Executive Directors are wholly independent in that they have no business or other relationship with the Group that might influence their independence or judgement.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board and the Group Chief Executive is clearly defined and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
He is responsible for organising the business of the Board, for setting its agenda and for ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and also ensures that the Board receives timely and accurate information so as to properly conduct its business as well as ensuring that communications with shareholders are effective.
Barratt Developments 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Report of the Directors Corporate Governance The Senior Independent Director has specific responsibility for co-ordinating the evaluation by the Nominations Committee of the Chairmans effectiveness as well as being a point of contact for shareholders in the event of there being any material issues or concerns which the Chairman and or Group Chief Executive have failed adequately to address.
The current Senior Independent Director is Mr M Pescod.
During the year the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met on one occasion independently of management.
Board process The Board has overall authority for the conduct of the business.
The Boards responsibilities include: determination of strategy and plans to achieve the Groups objectives: determination of policy and the overall direction of the Group: approval of the Group Report and Accounts prior to publication: establishment of effective systems of delegation and internal control and the annual review of their effectiveness: authorising material acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital projects and other significant transactions: and monitoring the Groups overall performance in relation to its strategies, plans, budgets and decisions.
In January 2008, the Board met for a full day to review and develop the overall business strategy of the Group.
In the week prior to each Board Meeting, each Director is issued with an agenda, briefing papers and comprehensive operating and financial management reports for the period under review.
The Company Secretary, a solicitor, attends all Board and Committee Meetings and all Directors have access to his advice and, if necessary, to independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Board Committees The Board has established four standing Committees: the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
Terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available on our corporate website.
Membership and attendance of each Committee is shown in the table on page 31.
Any Director who did not attend a meeting presented his apologies and provided his views to the Chairman ahead of the meeting having reviewed the reports and management information.
Executive Committee The Board delegates management of the business to the Executive Committee, which is led by the Group Chief Executive.
In addition to the Directors identified in the table on page 31 and Mr L Dent, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Executive Committee includes Mr N Richardson, Managing Director Wilson Bowden Developments, Mr P Law, Group Director of Corporate Affairs, Mrs J Mee, Group Human Resources Director and Mr S Cunningham, Group Sales and Marketing Director.
The Executive Committees principal responsibilities include: implementing all operational policy and strategy across the Group: the preparation and development of the Group Three Year Plan, Annual Business Plan and Budget to achieve the Groups objectives as determined by the Board: monitoring the performance of the Group with particular emphasis on performance as measured against the Strategic Plan, Annual Business Plan and Annual Budgets, and other relevant key performance indicators: monitoring all monthly financial and other management reports: approving schemes, projects and contracts in accordance with authority delegated by the Board: the management of proper systems of internal control and the identification of material risk to the business: determining the senior management and staff structures of the organisation, terms and conditions of employment and remuneration and reward policies: and taking all necessary action to ensure that day-to-day Group business operations are effectively managed and controlled.
The Audit Committee All members of the Audit Committee are wholly independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with Code provision C. 3.1.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr M E Rolfe succeeded Mr M Pescod as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2008.
The Committee invites the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, other members of senior management and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend meetings as required.
Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 | Report of the Directors Corporate Governance Under its terms of reference the Audit Committees principal responsibilities are: monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance, and reviewing and challenging where necessary the consistency of, and changes to, its accounting policies: monitoring the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the external audit process and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditor: monitoring the Groups financial management and reporting systems and assessing the integrity and effectiveness of its accounting procedures, system of internal control and the process for identifying and monitoring the risks facing the Group: reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function, the annual internal audit plan and all reports produced by the internal auditor and managements responsiveness to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditor: and reviewing whistleblowing procedures and ensuring arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent investigation and follow-up action.
As well as carrying out the work associated with the annual financial reporting cycle, the Audit Committee discharged a number of principal responsibilities during the year including the review of the effectiveness of internal control systems, the internal audit plan and certification, key accounting policies, judgements and issues, appointment of new external auditors and external audit plan and associated reports.
The Companys auditor, Deloitte & Touche LLP, provided non-audit related services during the year primarily relating to Corporate Financial Services for the reorganisation of and sale of assets from the Wilson Bowden Developments business.
Auditor objectivity and independence was maintained by the provision of non-audit related services from a separate office under the supervision of a separate partner from that providing audit related services.
Remuneration Committee All members of the Committee are considered by the Company to be wholly independent in accordance with Code provision B.
The Remuneration Committees principal responsibilities include: determining and reviewing executive remuneration policy, including the terms and conditions of employment for Executive Directors and their individual remuneration packages: approving the rules of and the basis of participation in Group share options, long-term performance plans and cash based bonus incentive schemes and the specific awards, grants and payments made under any such schemes: determining and reviewing the overall remuneration policy of the Group: and agreeing severance arrangements for Directors on early termination of contract.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committees principal responsibilities include: regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition required of the Board and succession planning for Directors and senior executives: identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies and evaluating the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: and reviewing the performance of the Board.
During the year the Committee undertook a recruitment selection process involving external consultants, The Miles Partnership, that resulted in the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director, Mr M E Rolfe, and undertook a recruitment selection process involving external consultants, JCA Group Limited, that resulted in the appointment of a new Group Chairman, Mr R A Lawson.
The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office during normal office hours and at the AGM for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Barratt Developments 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Report of the Directors Corporate Governance Membership and attendance at Board and Committee Meetings Group Executive Audit Remuneration Nominations Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Mr M S Clare 9 9 Chairman 12 12 3 3 Mr S J Boyes 9 9 12 12 Mr C Fenton 9 9 11 12 Mr M A Pain 9 9 12 12 2 Mr C G Toner Chairman 8 9 2 2 Chairman 2 4 3 Mr R A Lawson 2 2 Mr R J Davies 9 9 5 5 Chairman 2 2 2 4 Mr R MacEachrane 9 9 5 5 2 2 4 4 4 Mr M Pescod 8 9 Chairman 5 5 1 1 4 4 5 Mr M E Rolfe 2 2 Mr W Shannon 9 9 4 5 2 2 4 4 1 Mr M S Clare joined the Nominations Committee on 29 January 2008.
2 Mr C G Toner did not attend the two Nominations Committee Meetings dealing with his succession and retired from the Board, the Remuneration Committee and as Chairman on 30 June 2008.
3 Mr R A Lawson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2008 and as Chairman on 1 July 2008.
Mr R A Lawson was Chairman of one Group Board Meeting he attended and joined the Remuneration and Nominations Committee as of 1 July 2008.
4 Mr M Pescod was Chairman of two of the four Nominations Committee meetings he attended.
Mr M Pescod retired from the Remuneration Committee on 31 December 2007.
5 Mr M E Rolfe was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2008 and joined the Audit and Nominations Committees as of 1 July 2008.
Includes two special meetings in relation to the appointment of a new Chairman.
9 Indicates number of meetings held.
9 I ndicates number of meetings attended.
Board achievement, performance evaluation and training The procedure for appointment of new Directors to the Board is overseen by the Nominations Committee.
All Directors joining the Board submit themselves for election at the AGM following their appointment and a third of Directors retire each year and submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
The names of the Directors subject to re-election at this years AGM are set out on page 28.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term and normally serve a second three-year term subject to performance review and re-election.
Beyond this a third three-year term may be served subject to rigorous review.
During the year a formal and structured process of evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors was undertaken by the Board.
In previous years the performance evaluation was carried out using a questionnaire completed by all Board members.
This year the Board decided that it would be appropriate to use independent external consultants, Independent Audit Limited.
Central to the evaluation process are the Boards annual review of business strategy and the objectives and performance targets set by the Board each year for itself, its Committees and for the Group Chief Executive, and through him for the Executive Team, against which overall performance is measured.
In this way the evaluation is undertaken within clear parameters linked to overall strategy, operational and financial performance and the role and contribution made by the Board, its Committees and individual Directors in the attainment of agreed objectives and targets.
The performance evaluation was carried out by reviewing Board and Committee papers and other background material and by interviewing all Board members and members of the senior management team and advisors.
Independent Audit Limited also observed a meeting and compared the Companys Board practice with other major companies and with the good practice that leading institutional investment groups in UK companies expect.
The results of the evaluation were presented to the Board in July 2008 and the Chairman and Company Secretary have developed an action plan to implement Independent Audit Limiteds recommendations.
Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31 | Report of the Directors Corporate Governance Employment policy and involvement The Board recognises that employees need to understand and contribute to the broad objectives of the business and seeks to develop good relations with employees through regular communications and consultation.
Selection for employment and promotion is based on the objective assessment of ability and experience, giving full and fair consideration to all applications for employment, and the Group is committed to ensuring that its workplaces are free from unlawful discrimination of any sort.
The Group strives to ensure that its policies and practices provide equal opportunities in respect of issues such as training, career development and promotion for all existing or potential staff irrespective of gender, race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, physical disability, marital status, sexual orientation or age.
Every effort is made to retrain and support employees who become disabled while working within the Group.
The Group is committed to employee training and development at all levels of the organisation and endeavours to contribute to the industrys future skills base through graduate and apprentice training programmes.
This year the Groups human resources team, who provide our divisional management teams with advice on how to deliver best practice in terms of employment procedure and Group human resources policies, also helped to deliver strategic programmes such as our Performance Development Review and Management Development programmes.
The strategic programmes are used to encourage employee involvement in the Groups performance.
The Group works closely with the Construction Industry Training Board CITB and the National House-Building Council NHBC in training provision and a training plan is prepared annually linked to identified business priorities and objectives.
Having regard to the nature of our business, particular focus is given in the training programme to construction management, trade skills, health and safety and customer care.
We have also committed to the Construction Skills Certification Scheme CSCS for our employees and subcontractors as part of the Major House Builders Group Qualified Workforce Initiative.
Investor relations Details of the Groups management of investor relations are provided on pages 26 and 27.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control and risk management The Board confirms that it has maintained a sound system of internal control, for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group, throughout the year ended 30 June 2008 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report, and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls in accordance with Code provision C. 2, in particular C. 2.1, and that this statement has been prepared in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control appended to the Code, as revised in October 2005, the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage risks that may impede the achievement of the Groups business objectives rather than to eliminate those risks entirely.
The system of internal control therefore provides only reasonable, not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control does, however, provide reasonable assurance that potential problems can be identified promptly and appropriate remedial action taken.
Barratt Developments 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Report of the Directors Corporate Governance It is the responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management to implement and maintain the Groups internal control and risk management systems in accordance with policy approved by the Board.
The key aspects of the Groups internal control and risk management framework are as follows: i a clear organisational structure with defined levels of authority and responsibility for each operating division: ii extensive financial and management reporting systems under which financial and operating performance is consistently reviewed against budget and forecasts at divisional, regional and Group level on a monthly basis: iii p rincipal risk areas are embedded in the Groups monthly management reporting system so that risk identification and the control of risk are a routine aspect of management responsibility.
These risks include: the market including changes in the macroeconomic climate, sales and quality of product: liquidity including the availability of sufficient borrowing facilities: securing sufficient land: Government regulation including obtaining planning permission: construction including achieving key milestones, service standards, health and safety and the impact on the environment and social surroundings: and people including the development of a skilled and experienced workforce: iv internal control and risk management systems are supported by the Group internal audit team which is responsible for advising senior management, the Executive Directors and, through the Audit Committee, the Board on the operation and effectiveness of those systems.
The internal audit team undertakes a planned programme of audit appraisals across Group operations approved by the Audit Committee, including full divisional audits and targeted audits of key risk areas such as the land viability process, land acquisition control and monitoring, work in progress and subcontractor payment controls.
Material issues identified in these audits and follow-up action plans are reviewed by the Executive Directors and by the Board on a quarterly basis, and necessary actions are taken to remedy any failings in the internal control system.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance and is satisfied that it is in accordance with that guidance.
On behalf of the Board L Dent Company Secretary 9 September 2008 Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33
