40 Grainger plc annual review 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The board continues to uphold the highest standards of Roles governance which are at the heart of the way business is There is a written, approved statement of the separation of conducted by Grainger.
Changes made to the operation duties of the chairman, who reports to the board and the of the board by Robin Broadhurst in his early months as chief executive, who reports to the chairman.
Other key chairman in 2007, are now embedded in the way the differentiating factors are as follows: board functions.
The chairman The board believes that corporate governance is Responsible for running the board fundamentally about the way a company operates and Only the chief executive and the company secretary should not be an automatic response to a check list.
for corporate governance matters reports to him However, it is also mindful that The Combined Code 2006 Guardian of the boards decision making is generally accepted to describe good governance and seeks to comply as far as possible where this is in the best The chief executive interests of the company.
The statement of compliance Responsible for running the business refers to The Combined Code 2006, which was applicable All executive management report to him, directly to Grainger.
or indirectly This report fulfils the requirements of the Listing Rules Responsible for implementing the boards decisions and should be read in conjunction with the reports of the individual committees which follow.
Other key roles include the senior independent director and the chairmen of the committees.
Bill Tudor John held the The directors position of senior independent director for the entire period A company is only as good as the people who work for under review.
The committees compositions and work are it and the directors are committed to ensuring that the described in detail in their own reports which follow.
board itself includes people who have all of the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to successfully lead the Independence organisation.
For the period 1 October 2007 until 3 July For several years the board has been increasing the number 2008, the composition of the board was, in the boards of independent directors and again this year a further view, the chairman, deputy chairman, two executive independent non-executive has been appointed.
As noted directors and four independent non-executive directors.
in previous years, the chief executive is a cousin of the Baroness Margaret Ford was appointed to the board deputy chairman.
However, as announced at the time of as an independent non-executive director on 3 July the preliminary announcement on 27 November 2008, the increasing the level of independence on the board.
deputy chairman will be stepping down from the board at The directors therefore believe that, excluding the the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in February chairman, the board consisted of at least half independent 2009.
As explained in The Combined Code, the criteria of non-executive directors for the entire reporting period.
3.1 are only a guideline and it is the directors view of the independence of a particular director that is ultimately important.
In forming their opinion, the directors consider, amongst other things, the individuals professional characteristics, their behaviour at board meetings, their contribution to the debate and unbiased judgement.
The following analysis explains the boards duly considered view of the independence of the directors.
Corporate governance report 41 Director Boards determination Explanatory notes Robin Broadhurst Independent Independent under A.
3.1 criteria Chairman Stephen Dickinson Not independent Close family ties Deputy chairman More than nine years service Previously managing director Part-time executive responsibilities Participation in all-employee share scheme Bill Tudor John Independent Independent under A.
3.1 criteria Senior independent director John Barnsley Independent Independent under A.
3.1 criteria Robert R S Hiscox Independent Although a trustee for an Estate holding a material shareholding, the board is of the opinion that this position does not interfere with or influence his character or judgement in any way.
As chairman of Hiscox Ltd, and past deputy chairman of Lloyds, Mr Hiscox brings extensive skills and experience in his own right, which can only be beneficial to Graingers board The Estate has reduced its shareholding over the past four years, from 12.5 million shares to 9 million shares Henry Pitman Independent Independent under A.
3.1 criteria Baroness Margaret Ford Independent Independent under A.
3.1 criteria Appointed 3 July 2008 Full biographical details of all current directors are given on page 39.
Retirement by rotation and re-election Meetings The board recognises that it is important to adhere to good There were six ordinary meetings of the board in the year, governance principles and all board members are as such, where the board met to review the business and to consider required to stand for re-election at intervals of no more than the items reserved specifically for it which have been three years.
However, the board is also of the view that longdocumented and approved by the board.
These include term stability in the board is an important factor, given the setting the overall strategy, approving major transactions, long-term nature of the business.
Continuation of leadership setting debt gearing limits and associated hedging strategy throughout, for example, the period of a significant and agreeing accounting policies.
No changes were made development, is considered particularly beneficial.
The to this schedule during the year.
Decisions regarding more chairman has satisfied himself that, following evaluation, minor transactions are delegated to management.
all directors offering themselves for re-election continue to Most meetings were preceded, the evening before, with an show the required commitment and effective performance.
informal meeting allowing more time for debate and also a dinner, giving an opportunity for the directors to enhance their relationships with each other.
All directors attended all meetings during their relevant periods of office except for Robert Hiscox, who was not present at two of the meetings, and Henry Pitman who was not present for one.
This was the first year where six ordinary meetings were held, compared to four previously.
The board is satisfied that six is an appropriate number and intends to continue to meet with such frequency.
42 Grainger plc annual review 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In order to accommodate the new timetable of meetings, Baroness Ford also joined a property tour, to enable her to see the meeting which is held for an extended period in order some of the companys properties ranging from the core to debate and reflect fully on strategy, was held in April regulated portfolio through to the development activities.
This event continues to provide an ideal Directors and Officers insurance is held by the company opportunity for the board to spend time with the senior and details of the policy are given to new directors executives.
Further, the board now receives presentations on appointment.
from senior executives on a rotational basis.
The evaluation process was again successfully completed.
As well as the ordinary meetings, ad hoc meetings are The process was conducted internally and consisted of a arranged as necessary in order to consider major transactions written questionnaire followed by an interview with the or events.
Due to the short notice, which is unavoidable, chairman.
The questionnaire covered all of the board as all directors are not always able to attend, or to join by a whole, the committees and the individual directors and all teleconference.
Wherever possible the chairman will take of these areas were picked up as relevant in the subsequent on views of the non-attending director prior to the meeting.
Notes of the interviews are held only by the Board papers are produced and distributed in a timely chairman and the company secretary since it has been manner for each meeting, being in the hands of the board proved in recent years that this allows the directors to be five working days before the meeting.
They contain more open in their discussions.
sufficient financial and non-financial information to allow The chairman was pleased with the commitment shown by the board to properly monitor the group and understand the directors to the process.
The whole evaluation exercise the challenges facing it and opportunities open to it.
The and its outcomes were reviewed formally at a board format of the papers specifically highlights items for decision meeting.
As a result of the evaluation process the board and for discussion.
In this way the board can be sure that it identified the need for a chief operating officer to sit below concentrates its efforts and allocates sufficient time to those board level and are in the process of defining a clear role.
items which are most important.
In response to results from last years evaluation, there has Each director is given an opportunity to raise an item to been increased communication between executives and the agenda and any request for further information from non-executives this year.
In particular, the non-executives a director is treated as a high priority.
The directors also have now receive a bi-weekly update covering items ranging direct access to the services of the company secretary, who from sales and the market, to management and leadership reports to the chairman regarding matters of corporate initiatives.
This has been invaluable during the rapidly governance.
The appointment and removal of the company changing economic climate over the period under review.
secretary is a matter for the board as a whole.
Procedures The senior independent director spoke with the executives also exist for directors to take independent professional and the non-executives individually in order to evaluate the advice as required, at the groups expense.
The boards written document for the separation The chairman met twice during the year with the nonof the roles of the chairman and the chief executive was executives, without the executives present as planned.
used as a basis for the evaluation.
These meetings will continue with this frequency.
The board is provided with regular written updates which are relevant to a listed property company.
Presentations are Induction, evaluation, training and development also received from the senior management who lead the Baroness Margaret Ford was appointed in the year and business divisions, which inform the directors about relevant received a comprehensive, tailored induction to the aspects of their markets.
Directors are able to request company.
This consisted of the provision of a bible of specific training, through the chairman or company information covering such items as the most recent risk secretary.
If any development areas are identified for review, recent minutes, terms of reference of the committees the board as a whole, its committees or for directors as etc as well as sessions with each member of the senior individuals, then they would be appropriately addressed management team.
These meetings were arranged in small on appointment or thereafter.
groups so that as well as the divisional leaders each giving a presentation of their business area, discussion and debate was encouraged.
Corporate governance report 43 Relations with stakeholders misstatement or loss.
The audit committee is delegated the task of reviewing all identified risks, with the ultimate key The primary contacts with shareholders, analysts and risks retained for full board review.
The audit committee potential investors are the chief executive, and deputy reports to the board at every board meeting.
Risks and chief executive and finance director.
The usual half yearly controls are reviewed to ensure effective management of results announcements and briefings were also attended by appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance some of the companys most senior management and this issues.
The audit committee also reviews the half year and was welcomed by shareholders.
Apart from these meetings, full year financial statements and holds discussions with there have again been circa.
100 meetings and presentations the groups auditors.
In addition, the group has an internal by the executive directors, to maintain an appropriate audit function which performs relevant reviews as part dialogue.
They also participated in conferences, including of a programme approved by the audit committee.
the Credit Suisse Real Estate conference in New York.
The The committee considers any issues or risks arising from level of meetings with private client brokers was maintained internal audit in order that appropriate actions can be from the previous year.
Feedback is always sought following undertaken for their satisfactory resolution.
The internal such events and is presented to the board as a whole.
The audit manager has a direct reporting line to the chairman board is briefed on the views of major shareholders.
Further, of the audit committee.
all directors, including the chairman and non-executives, are available for meetings with shareholders.
There were An annual budget is produced, together with longer-term no requests in the year from shareholders to meet Baroness projections in accordance with the agreed strategy, which Ford, the newly appointed non-executive director.
Along are presented to the board for approval.
A fundamental part with all other directors, she will be in attendance at the of the control process is the diligent monitoring of actual annual general meeting and available to answer questions.
performance against this budget by the board.
Where applicable, revisions are made to expected outturn against The groups website includes a specific and comprehensive which further progress can be monitored.
Investor Relations section, containing all RNS announcements, share price information, annual documents available for The board also discusses in detail the projected financial download etc.
All shareholders have the opportunity to impact of major proposed acquisitions and disposals, attend the Annual General Meeting, which continues as a including their financing.
All such proposed substantial route for communication with smaller private shareholders.
investments are considered by all directors.
Where meetings are required between board meetings and a full complement The notice of meeting and annual report and accounts of directors cannot be achieved, a committee of directors are sent out at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The board is also Separate votes are held for each proposed resolution, responsible for the discussion and approval of the groups including the approval of the remuneration committee treasury strategy, including mitigation against changes in report, and a proxy count is given in each case after the interest rates.
Grainger includes, as standard, a vote withheld category, in line with best practice.
Going concern Shareholders are also able again to lodge their votes through the CREST system.
After making diligent enquiries, including the review of future anticipated cash flows and compliance with banking Internal control covenants, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and company have adequate resources The group has a cyclical process for identifying, assessing to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
For this and managing its significant risks, which has been in place reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in for the full year under review.
The process is designed to preparing the accounts.
enable the board to be confident that such risks are mitigated, or controlled as far as possible.
It should be noted however that no system can eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives entirely and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 44 Grainger plc annual review 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Compliance statement Attendance of the individual directors is shown below.
Mr Barnsley has the particular recent, relevant financial Independence of non-executive directors is explained in experience required by The Combined Code.
In the boards view it is their assessment of independence which determines compliance with the Nov Feb May Sep 2007 2008 2008 2008 Code and therefore no non-compliance on grounds of John Barnsley independence has been recorded.
Chairman The board considers that it has complied in full with Henry Pitman the Combined Code 2006, during the year ended Member 30 September 2008.
Bill Tudor John Member resigned 10 September 2007 Nomination committee report Baroness Margaret Ford The nomination committee consisted throughout the year, Member appointed 3 July 2008 n a n a n a of Robin Broadhurst as chairman, and Robert Hiscox and Bill Tudor John as independent members.
The audit committee adheres to particularly strict and detailed terms of reference, which are available for Due to the relatively small size of the board, matters which inspection on the groups website.
In addition to the work are included in the nomination committees terms of described within the Internal Control section of the main reference are often discussed by the board as a whole.
report above, the audit committee is also responsible for As a result, this committee met only informally and reviewing the independence of the external auditor, which communicated by telephone or email.
includes the approval of any non-audit service fees above a The terms of reference are available on the groups website relatively nominal level.
The audit committee is responsible and principally relate to filling vacancies on the board.
The for the appointment of the external auditor and for agreeing committee is also responsible for reviewing the desirability the audit fee.
of the continuation of service of directors required to retire The deputy chief executive finance director and external by rotation.
audit partner as well as other senior management are invited Baroness Margaret Ford was appointed in the year.
to attend meetings of the committee.
The audit committee Although there was an external agency involved, having requires presentations from members of staff such as the been introduced by an existing director, she was subject treasury director, tax director and IT director all nonto a formal process involving being interviewed by all of statutory directors, to ensure that they feel sufficiently close the directors, prior to her being appointed.
to these important individuals who have significant levels of control to maintain.
Once each year the audit committee Audit committee report meet with management without the auditors present and The audit committee meets four times each year and reports also with the auditors without management present.
on its work at every subsequent board meeting.
This is a critical part of the internal control process.
By order of the board On appointment to the board on 3 July, Baroness Ford was also appointed to the audit committee.
The board considers that being a member of the audit committee is an excellent way to quickly gain an understanding of the key risks in the business.
After one meeting with four members present, Bill Tudor John resigned from the audit committee.
Marie Glanville ACA ACIS Company secretary 16 December 2008
