This schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Directors Report Matters outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided by management Directors Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with delegated authorities approved by the Board and Audit Committee.
The Boards policies and procedures are set out in a Directors File which Directors Corporate Governance Statement is provided to all directors on appointment and which is updated routinely.
The Board and Independence 2 The Boards Role At the date of this report, the Board comprises a chairman, five other non-executive 3 The Board and Independence directors and two executive directors who contribute a wide range of 4 Chairman and Group Chief Executive complementary skills and experience.
A short biography of each current director 5 Board Appointments is set out on page 51.
In April 2008 Michael Harper retired as Chairman of Whatman 6 Information and Professional Development plc, following its takeover.
7 Performance Evaluation Peter Ratcliffe became a non-executive director with effect from 9 January 2009, 8 Board Committees when he also joined the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
He will be seeking a. Remuneration Committee election at the forthcoming AGM.
With effect from 19 June 2008 Mark Harper b.
Nomination Committee became a member of the Nomination Committee.
Bruce Van Allen stepped down 9 Audit and Accountability from the Board with effect from 8 January 2009. a.
Audit Committee The Board has determined that all its non-executive directors including b.
Systems of Internal Control John Roques, who was appointed to the Board in January 1999 are independent in 10 Shareholder Relations character and judgement.
Under the Combined Code such a determination is after the year of appointment not required for a serving Chairman.
Compliance formal procedures in place to ensure that the Boards powers to authorise conflicts The Board is committed to ensuring high standards of corporate governance are are operated effectively.
Those procedures were updated in 2008 and have maintained at BBA Aviation plc.
The Company applies the principles of corporate governance set out in Section 1 At the forthcoming AGM Michael Harper and Hansel Tookes are retiring by of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code adopted by rotation and John Roques having served on the Board for more than nine years the Financial Reporting Council, available at www.
uk corporate and retires in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code and the Companys most recently revised in June 2008 through its own behaviour, by monitoring the Articles of Association and each intends to seek re-election at that time.
The Board evolution of corporate governance best practice, by reviewing and updating its believes that each of Michael Harper, Hansel Tookes and John Roques should be procedures as required and by adopting, where appropriate, recommendations re-elected by shareholders as a non-executive director because, as evidenced by of relevant bodies.
Board performance evaluations, each continues to be effective and demonstrate The directors can confirm compliance throughout 2008 with the provisions commitment to his role.
The Board believes that each of them will continue to do so.
set out in Section 1 of the Code except that bonuses and benefits in kind for an The renewal of John Roques appointment was discussed by Board members in the executive director based in the USA were historically pensionable which is light of the Boards performance evaluations and additional discussions took place.
explained further in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 68.
John Roques provides continuity of experience which the Board values.
The auditors report concerning the Companys compliance with the Combined During the year the Chairman met the other non-executive directors without Code appears on page 71. the attendance of the executive directors and there was a formal meeting of the Senior Independent Director and non-executive directors without the Chairman 2.
There were several other occasions during the year when discussions The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the success of the Company.
between various directors took place on an informal basis.
Its role includes providing effective leadership and setting the Groups strategic Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the Board before accepting aims.
It assesses business opportunities and seeks to ensure that appropriate a non-executive directorship in any other company.
Executive directors may retain controls are in place to assess and manage risk.
It is responsible for reviewing the fees from any such directorship.
No executive directors held non-executive managements performance and oversees senior level succession planning within directorships during 2008. the Group.
The Board is responsible for setting the Companys values and standards, ensuring the Companys obligations to its shareholders are met.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive There were seven scheduled Board meetings in 2008 which were attended Throughout 2008 there has continued to be a clear division of responsibilities by all the directors.
Board meetings focus on strategy, financial and business between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
This is reinforced by a written performance.
There was also a meeting of Board members focusing on the longer statement of the division of responsibilities between the two positions which was term strategic direction of the Group and looking in greater detail at the markets in reviewed and approved by the Board in 2007.
Michael Harper as Chairman is which the Group operates.
Additional meetings are called as required to deal with primarily responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Board agenda is set by the Chairman in consultation with the responsible for setting the Board agenda and ensuring the directors receive Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Group Secretary.
information in an accurate, clear and timely manner.
He is responsible for promoting The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision including effective decision-making, ensuring the performance of the Board, its committees approval of matters such as: and individual directors are evaluated on an annual basis and that appropriate strategy and objectives Board training and development occurs.
Simon Pryce as Group Chief Executive Group policies is responsible for the development and implementation of Board strategy and annual budgets policy, the running of the Groups business, ensuring that the business strategy dividends and activities are effectively communicated and promoted within and outside the acquisitions and disposals of businesses business and for building positive relationships with the Companys stakeholders.
expenditure over a certain limit financial results appointments to the Board 56 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 5.
Performance Evaluation The Board acknowledges its responsibility for planned and progressive refreshing of In the autumn of 2008 the Chairman, in conjunction with the Senior Independent the Board.
It believes that the necessary arrangements to manage succession issues Director, led the performance evaluation and appraisal process for the Board, its promptly and effectively are in place.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for members and its main Committees.
The Chairman discussed with each director the appointment of new directors to the Board, the prime responsibility for which is individually their replies to a questionnaire they had previously completed delegated to the Nomination Committee.
The appointment process is initiated by concerning the Board, its Committees and their operation: progress made on the the Board and a selection procedure established to identify suitable external search action points agreed following the 2007 Board performance evaluation process: consultants for the vacancy.
The process differs in its detail depending on whether any concerns the director had and the directors own performance.
In addition, the the appointment is for an executive or non-executive position, but the essentials Senior Independent Director, in consultation with the other non-executive directors remain the same and the process was followed prior to the appointment of and taking into account the views of the executive directors, reviewed the Peter Ratcliffe in January 2009.
Following the appointment of a suitable external performance of the Chairman and the performance evaluation and appraisal consultant, details of the role and capabilities required for the appointment are process as a whole.
Overall the conclusion from the Board evaluation and appraisal prepared.
The consultant then draws up a list of potential candidates and a shortlist process was positive, with each individual director contributing actively to the is created through consultation amongst Nomination Committee members.
effective performance of the Board and the Committees of which he is a member.
The Board as a whole is also regularly updated as to the status of the appointment The Board discussed the main points arising from the evaluation at its December process.
Meetings as appropriate are arranged with Committee members and the meeting and agreed that it had benefited from the introduction in 2008 of a more Committee aims to ensure that each Board member is given the opportunity to structured timetable of presentations from each of the businesses within the Group meet the short-listed candidates.
The Nomination Committee will then meet to and from increased communication between Board meetings.
Both these initiatives finalise a recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment.
The progress against the objectives the Board had set There is a written framework for the induction of new directors which includes itself in 2008 relating to strategy, succession planning, management development site visits, meetings with senior management and advisers and the provision of training and corporate social responsibility has also been reviewed and new corporate documentation.
A personal induction programme is prepared for each objectives set for 2009. new director tailored to the experience and needs of the individual.
New directors are available to meet major shareholders on request.
Board Committees Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the Board for an The Board operates a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Committee and an initial term of three years.
This term is subject to the usual regulatory provisions Audit Committee.
Written terms of reference for each Committee are available on and continued satisfactory performance of duties following the Boards annual request and are posted on the Companys website.
Re-appointment for a further term is not automatic but may be made by mutual agreement.
In addition, in accordance with the a. Remuneration Committee Companys Articles of Association all directors are subject to re-election at least Composition every three years.
The composition of the Remuneration Committee during 2008 is set out in the table The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board as a whole below.
All committee members are non-executive directors.
These directors other on the recommendation of the Group Chief Executive.
No director is involved than Peter Ratcliffe were on the Committee at the time of determining remuneration in deciding his own remuneration or fees.
Letters of appointment for the for the year ended 31 December 2008. non-executive directors are available for inspection by shareholders at each During Year AGM and during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
Information and Professional Development Michael Harper The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors receive accurate, timely Nick Land and clear information with Board and Committee papers being circulated in Appointed advance of the meeting.
The Board and its Committees are kept informed of Peter Ratcliffe 09 01 09 corporate governance and relevant regulatory developments as they arise and John Roques receive appropriate briefings.
For example, in 2008 the Board was updated on Hansel Tookes relevant aspects of those parts of the new UK Companies Act 2006 that came into force in 2008, whilst the Audit Committee is routinely briefed on accounting and During 2008 the Remuneration Committee met on six occasions.
These meetings technical matters by senior management and the external auditors.
were attended by all Committee members.
Executive directors and the Group HR In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintained regular Director may attend these meetings by invitation.
The meetings are minuted by the contact during the year with other directors to discuss specific issues.
exist throughout the year for informal contact between Board members and with members of the senior management team and site visits are arranged for Role Board members.
The Committee has two principal functions: first, making recommendations to the The Board believes that, given the experience and skills of its current directors, Board on the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of executive directors the identification of individual development needs is best left to the individual and other designated senior executives and second, determining on behalf of the directors discretion.
If any such needs became evident through the annual Board the specific remuneration package for each of the executive directors, performance evaluation, the director would be encouraged to pursue the necessary including pension rights and any compensation payments.
The Company will provide the necessary resources for developing The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for discussing and agreeing and updating the directors knowledge and skills.
a compensation policy for the Group.
In conjunction with the Group Chief All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Secretary Executive and Group HR Director, the Committee is tasked with developing a and the Board has established a procedure whereby directors wishing to do so broad compensation framework for senior management and for reviewing the in furtherance of their duties may take independent professional advice at the remuneration for certain senior executives.
The specific application of this policy Companys expense.
and framework to each senior executive is the responsibility of the Group The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal actions Chief Executive.
The Company has also entered into indemnities with its directors as described on page 54 of this Directors Report.
Further details of the work of the Remuneration Committee appear in the Directors Remuneration Report.
57 Directors Report Directors Corporate Governance Statement b.
Nomination Committee Composition The composition of the Nomination Committee during 2008 is set out in the table below.
The Nomination Committee comprised two executive directors and four non-executive directors during the second half of the year, following Mark Harper joining the Committee with effect from 19 June 2008.
During Year 01 01 08 Resigned Appointed 31 12 08 25 02 09 John Roques Chairman Michael Harper Simon Pryce Andrew Wood Mark Harper 19 06 08 Nick Land Other directors may attend Nomination Committee meetings by invitation.
The Nomination Committee meets as required.
During 2008 the Committee met formally once with attendance by all Committee members.
This was supplemented by individual briefings and meetings between Committee members.
Role The principal role of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the Companys executive and non-executive directors.
It is responsible for identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies.
In making appointments, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and in the light of this evaluation considers the capabilities required for the role and, in the case of a non-executive appointment, the time available to fulfil the role.
Use is made of independent search consultants and the final appointment rests with the full Board.
More information on the role of the Nomination Committee is set out in section 5 Board Appointments above.
Details regarding the Audit Committee are set out in section 9a on page 59.
Audit and Accountability The Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities through the review of written a.
Audit Committee reports circulated in advance of meetings and by discussing these reports and any Composition other matters with the relevant auditors and management.
Topics covered by the The composition of the Audit Committee during 2008 is set out in the following Audit Committee during 2008 and to date in 2009 included: review of any significant table.
All members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive issues from reports from both the internal and external audits: consideration of the directors.
Nick Land, the Committees Chairman, and John Roques each have audit fee and the balance between audit and non-audit fees: assessment of the risk relevant and recent financial experience and a professional accountancy of the possible withdrawal of Deloitte LLP from the external auditor market: annual qualification as considered desirable by the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance review of the terms of reference of the Committee and of the schedule of the on Audit Committees issued in October 2008 Guidance on Audit Committees.
Committees agenda items for the forthcoming year and of BBA Aviations matrix In addition the other Committee members all have experience of corporate financial of authority levels and other topics that are described in more detail in this report.
matters and Peter Ratcliffe has a professional accountancy qualification.
In 2008 the Audit Committee held two confidential sessions without management present with the Head of Group Internal Audit and with the During Year external auditors.
01 01 08 Resigned Appointed 31 12 08 25 02 09 Nick Land Chairman Auditor Independence and Audit Effectiveness Mark Harper Central to the Audit Committees work is the review and monitoring of the external Appointed auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Peter Ratcliffe 09 01 09 The Audit Committee carried out a formal audit service assessment in respect of John Roques work carried out during the year including a review of audit plans and the qualifications, expertise, resources, effectiveness and independence of the external During 2008 the Audit Committee met on four occasions, generally coinciding with auditors.
The Audit Committee has also carried out a detailed performance key dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle.
There was full attendance by all evaluation and believes that it has satisfied the requirements of the Combined Code the Committee members.
The external auditors and Head of Group Internal Audit and the Guidance on Audit Committees.
The Audit Committee has confirmed that regularly attend these meetings which are minuted by the Group Secretary.
The during the year it had formal and transparent arrangements for considering financial Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Financial reporting and internal control principles and maintaining an appropriate relationship Controller also generally join at least part of the Audit Committee meetings by with the Companys auditors.
The Committee Chairman may call a meeting at the request of any A key safeguard to ensure auditor objectivity and independence is the director or the Companys external auditors.
Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by its external auditors.
This policy is reviewed annually.
It prohibits the Groups external auditors from Role carrying out certain additional services for the Group including book-keeping, The Committee may consider any matter that might have a financial impact on the internal audit, valuations, actuarial services and financial systems design and Group.
However, its primary role is: first, monitoring the financial reporting process implementation.
Services which the external auditors may be permitted to carry and reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and the internal audit work out include assurance services such as reporting accountant work and tax services.
programme: and second, reviewing the annual financial statements and half-yearly The Committee is satisfied that the majority of the tax services supplied by Deloitte and preliminary announcements before they are presented to the Board.
In addition, LLP are compliance-related and represent a small proportion of Group tax fees.
the Committee reviews twice yearly reports on the Groups key business risks and As a matter of principle, the Companys policy is not to use the external auditors the Audit Committee whose members are also members of the Remuneration for acquisition and due diligence work.
However, where the Group considers it Committee is aware of the importance of keeping the appropriateness of incentive appropriate or conflicts arise, suppliers other than the preferred supplier may be structures under review.
The Committee assesses compliance with the directors asked to tender.
The Committee also reviews the Groups Disclosure of The Committee Chairman is required to pre-approve certain permitted services, Unethical Conduct Policy under which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns which may exceed set financial limits.
Non-audit fees paid or due to the external about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
auditors are regularly reviewed by the Committee and those paid in 2008 are set out The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board regarding in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
the remuneration and appointment of its external auditors.
While the appointment Deloitte LLP have confirmed that all non-audit services they performed during of external auditors is considered each year, it is the policy of the Audit Committee the year were permitted by APB Ethical Standards and do not impair their to review the appointment in greater detail at least every five years.
Such a review independence or objectivity.
On the basis of their own review of the services was completed in 2008, taking into account a number of factors, including audit performed, the requirement of pre-approval and the auditors confirmation, the effectiveness at both operating company and Group-level: quality, continuity and Committee is satisfied that the non-audit services currently provided by Deloitte LLP depth of resources and expertise and competitiveness of fees.
do not impair their independence and objectivity.
An internal audit function undertakes a programme of risk-based reviews of Directors Report controls and business processes.
The role of internal audit is defined in a Group Directors Corporate Governance Statement Internal Audit Charter and this includes its terms of reference, the standards which it adheres to, the scope and coverage of its work and its reporting b.
Systems of Internal Control processes.
The Audit Committee receives a report from internal audit at each Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its meeting which includes opinions on the adequacy and effectiveness of effectiveness rests with the directors.
Management is accountable to the directors controls by site, a summary of key issues, work schedules and details of any for monitoring this system and for providing assurance to the directors that it has action required.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Audit Committee done so.
The system of internal control is essentially an ongoing process embedded regularly monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal audit utilising in the Groups businesses for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant outside specialists and self-assessment techniques.
During the winter of 2008 9 risks faced by the Group, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The Group an external, independent review of the effectiveness of the internal audit considers that it has adequate information to identify and assess significant risks and function was undertaken, in accordance with the standards issued by The opportunities affecting its long and short-term value.
Institute of Internal Auditors UK and Ireland, and its findings will be reported This process has been in place for the year ended 31 December 2008 and up to to the Audit Committee later in the year.
25 February 2009 and the directors can therefore confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness in accordance with the internal control requirements of the 4.
A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies and financial controls Combined Code throughout that period.
applicable to all reporting units.
The Group accounting policies are aligned The Groups internal system of control is reviewed annually by the directors and with the latest International Accounting Standards and International Financial accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October Reporting Standards.
Compliance with these policies is reviewed as part of the 2005: Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against 5.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets for each of the material misstatement or loss, to the extent that is appropriate, taking account of Groups reporting units.
The main features of the Groups internal control and risk management systems 6.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to management which are listed below.
measure actual performance, together with forecasts of sales, profits and operating cash for the next three months and to the end of the year.
Detailed written self-assessment of risks by company, division and function integrity of these management accounts with the underlying financial records carried out by the responsible executive are plotted on risk maps, with both is subject to review as part of the internal audit process.
A monthly report is the assessments and the risk maps being reviewed by the internal audit provided to the Board, based on these management accounts, highlighting key department and by senior management at quarterly operating review issues and summarising the detailed financial information provided by the meetings held with each business.
These reviews assess the following operating units.
Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, authorisation levels financial: requiring the approval of major projects by the Group directors and by compliance: and post-investment appraisals.
operational and other including health, safety and environmental.
The outcome from these reviews is then discussed twice each year at meetings 8.
Defined procedures are laid down for investments, currency and commodity of the Executive Management Committee, with the results being presented to hedging, granting of guarantees and use of treasury products.
the Audit Committee, which in turn reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control on behalf of the Board.
A detailed matrix defines the levels of authority for the Groups senior a report at least twice a year from the Group Finance Director detailing the executives and their direct reports in relation to acquisitions, capital work undertaken in managing the risks faced by the Group.
Based on this expenditure, commercial and employee contracts and treasury matters.
information the Board reviews the risks and confirms they are satisfied that This matrix is authorised by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board and is the risks are appropriately mitigated.
If this is not the case they request that reviewed on an annual basis.
Compliance with the authority matrix is reviewed management take further action.
as part of the internal audit process.
An organisation structure is in place at both head office and divisional level which clearly defines responsibilities for operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, company secretarial and insurance functions.
All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or businesses are 10.
Shareholder Relations The Board as a whole is routinely kept up to date on corporate governance approved by the Board.
developments and the views of BBA Aviations major shareholders.
This was achieved in 2008 through regular meetings between the Group Chief Executive, the 11.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures concerning: business ethics, bribery and corruption, gifts and entertainments, equal opportunities Finance Director and major shareholders, which are then reported to the Board as a whole.
The Board also receives formal written reports from its brokers regarding the and anti-harassment guidelines, competition law, legal policy, market disclosure and communications and share dealing.
A bi-annual review of compliance with views of its principal shareholders following its preliminary and half yearly results announcements and at other times as appropriate.
In addition, in 2008 an such policies by Group companies is carried out and senior executives are also required to confirm compliance with certain policies twice a year.
Group independent survey of investors was conducted and the results from that were presented to the Board.
All non-executive directors, including the Senior policies are complemented by divisional and company-led initiatives, including community policies, and are supplemented by the Groups Disclosure of Independent Director, are available to meet with major shareholders.
The Board considers that its non-executive directors, including its current Senior Independent Unethical Conduct Policy which includes a 24-hour hotline available to all employees, supported by a formal investigation protocol and regular reporting Director, John Roques, have a good level of understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders, as required by the Combined Code.
A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts takes place each year.
The directors seek to encourage a continuing 12.
A Group Safety Management System Manual details policies, standards and procedures which are applicable throughout the Group.
The Company maintains contact as required with its principal shareholders about directors remuneration in the same way as for other matters.
The Companys Health, Safety and Environmental HSE matters are set out on page 48 under Corporate Social Responsibility and on the BBA Aviation website.
Annual AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate with private investors.
It is intended that notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 self-assessment and or audits are carried out at company level against the Group standards.
An executive summary HSE report is reviewed at each working days before the meeting.
Michael Harper as Chairman of the Board, John Roques as Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Senior Independent meeting of the Executive Management Committee.
The Board also receives this summary HSE report in addition to updates on HSE activities.
These Director, Nick Land as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Mark Harper as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and CSR Responsible Director will each reports cover all Group companies and are prepared by the internal Group HSE function.
Senior managers performance and related financial incentives be available to answer questions, as appropriate, at the AGM.
Shareholders are given the opportunity of voting separately on each proposal.
The Company counts all are tied in part to their success against selected annual HSE improvement objectives.
proxy votes cast in respect of the AGM and makes available the proxy voting figures for, against, at discretion and vote withheld on each resolution.
The voting results of the AGM, together with the details of proxy votes cast prior to the meeting, are made available on request and on the Companys website.
The results of the AGM are announced to the market via a Regulatory News Service.
Directors Corporate Governance Statement approved by the Board on 25 February 2009 and signed on its behalf by: Zillah Stone Group Secretary 61
