Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 76 The Directors take decisions objectively and in the best Corporate Governance interests of the Group, being collectively and individually responsible for its success.
They are accountable to each report and every shareholder and take into consideration the need to foster the Groups business relationships with other stakeholders in discharging that obligation.
As at the year end, the Board comprised the Chairman plus four Executive and five Non-Executive Introduction Directors, all of the latter being considered independent.
The Board collectively and individually subscribes to the The Board has a good balance between Executive and principles and provisions in the Combined Code on Non-Executive Directors, with the diversity of relevant Corporate Governance and associated guidance.
Other skills required to further the interests of shareholders.
Brief than the areas noted below, the Company confirms that it biographies of each Board member can be found on pages is in compliance with the Code for the year under review 60 and 61.
It is the Groups policy that Executive Directors and indeed, in a number of areas, goes beyond the high may not hold more than one external directorship.
For example, the Chairmen of the Formal Board meetings are held at least bi-monthly Audit and Remuneration Committees put themselves and during the year to 31 March 2008, there were six forward for re-election by shareholders at each AGM and formal meetings which were attended by all Directors the Audit Committee Report is also voted upon.
The areas except for one meeting which David Pangbourne was where the Company has not complied with the Combined unable to attend due to illness.
During the period, there Code are as follows: were 15 other ad hoc Board meetings, quorate, but not necessarily of the full Board, to facilitate day-to-day a bonus arrangements, which comprise cash and, under business operations.
The Non-Executive Directors also exceptional circumstances, share awards, have no met both with and without the Chairman present.
upper limit in the aggregate, although an upper limit The Board is offered training and information in a is in place in respect of the cash element of the plan.
form and of a quality it believes is appropriate to enable The Board believes this is appropriate since, for the it to discharge its duties.
Directors receive training in share element of the bonus award to be triggered, specific areas relevant to their speciality and relevant exceptional performance must be delivered and it is to the Board as a whole.
New Directors are offered an important to incentivise such performance.
induction programme including tailor made elements b for the period from 1 March 2007 to 4 September 2007, where appropriate.
Nigel Ellis who had previously been Chairman of the The Directors have access to the Company Company served on the Board as a non-independent Secretary, who is a Chartered Secretary.
During this period, the number Secretary keeps the Directors informed of corporate of executive and non-independent non-executive governance issues and changes in the law and best directors was greater than the number of independent practice guidance, ensuring Board procedures are non-executive directors.
On 1 February 2008, Simon complied with and has access to external professional Laffin was appointed to the Board as an independent advice at the Groups expense.
During the year under review, the Board commenced a formal evaluation of its performance and that of its The Board of Directors Committees with advice and assistance from Dr Tracy A schedule of matters reserved for the Board has Long of Board Room Review.
The evaluation was been approved which is reviewed on an annual basis.
concluded after the year end.
Directors were invited to It includes those matters that are most significant to the comment, through questionnaires and interviews, and Group, based on the nature and size of the transaction, responses were reviewed and discussed by the Board.
both in terms of financial impact and risk.
Where areas of improvement were identified, action has As part of its collective responsibility for the been agreed.
management of the Group, the Board must ensure that The Chairmans performance was considered at a adequate resources are in place to achieve its strategic meeting of the Non-Executive Directors without the aims and that its obligations to shareholders and other Chairman present.
In the management of Group assets, the Board is also conscious both of environmental issues and community relations.
As part of the planning process for its major urban regeneration projects, the Group has also engaged in extensive consultation with central and local government and with the communities involved.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 77 The Non-Executive Directors bring independent views to Board committees the Board.
They have diverse experience having expertise The Companys policy is that all Non-Executive Directors in chartered surveying, the civil service, accountancy, are members of all the committees of the Board except the law and economics to add to the Boards effectiveness, Risk Committee.
Whilst the Directors are aware that this particularly in the areas of corporate strategy, governance may not be regarded as best practice by some, they and risk.
Non-Executive Directors take an active part in believe it to be in the interests of the Company to have debate and, not being afraid to challenge proposals, maximum diversity of skills on its committees.
ensure the robustness of Board decisions.
Lady Judge is David Pangbourne is currently Chairman of the the former deputy chairman of the Financial Reporting Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee meets formally at Council.
She is a lawyer and expert in corporate least three times each year.
It also meets separately with governance and continues to be the nominated Senior both the external and internal auditors and the Companys Independent Director.
Lady Judges experience and property valuers.
During the year ended 31 March 2008, qualifications make her the most appropriate Non the Committee met on five occasions with full attendance Executive Director for this role and she is available to on each occasion except for one meeting which David meet shareholders on request and at the AGM.
Pangbourne was unable to attend due to illness.
Its Terms Non-Executive Directors contracts are for an initial of Reference include consideration of the appointment and period of three years, which may be extended for further terms of engagement of the external and internal auditors periods, subject to re-election by the members in general together with a review of their independence, objectivity meeting.
Executive Directors have rolling service and effectiveness, the co-ordination of internal and contracts which provide for a notice period of six months.
external auditors, reviewing auditors reports, annual and None of the service agreements contain any liquidated interim reports, asset valuations, internal control policy damages or payment in lieu of damages on change of and procedures and consistency.
All Directors contracts are available The Remuneration Committee is chaired by for inspection at the registered office and at the AGM.
The Committee meets at least three times In accordance with the Companys Articles, each each year.
During the year ended 31 March 2008, the Director must stand for re-election at least every Committee met three times formally with full attendance three years.
at each meeting and a further three times on an informal The Terms of Reference of the Audit and basis to progress matters.
Each of these meetings was Remuneration Committees require the Chairman of each quorate but did not have full attendance.
Its Terms of Committee to offer himself herself for re-election annually.
Reference include consideration of all aspects of the This year Nicholas Shattock, John Plender and Executive Directors performance, employment, David Pangbourne are standing for re-election as remuneration and incentives.
It also sets the Directors.
Simon Laffin is standing for election by remuneration and incentives policy of the Group as a shareholders at the first AGM following his appointment.
whole and approves the remuneration of senior staff.
David Pangbourne is also standing for re election in his The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 66 to 69. capacity as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Martin The Nominations Committee is responsible for the Meech for re-election as Chairman of the Remuneration selection and approval of candidates for appointment to Committee.
The Committee meets formally at least once a The Board recommends to shareholders that year and otherwise when required.
During the year, it met those Directors offering themselves for election at its once with full attendance.
forthcoming AGM be re-elected because of the significant value they create and the wide ranging skills and experience which they bring to bear in the workings of the Board.
Quintain Estates Annual Report Corporate and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 78 Governance report It is chaired by John Plender and comprises all the Shareholder relations Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
The Finance Director, with the assistance of her fellow Whilst some guidance views Adrian Wyatts membership Executive Directors, is primarily responsible for investor of this Committee as not in accordance with best practice, relations and regularly makes contact with institutional the Directors believe it to be in the best interests of the and other shareholders in an effort to maintain an open Group.
The Committees Terms of Reference include the and effective dialogue.
review of the structure and composition of the Board, the The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director identification of suitable candidates to fill vacancies as and the other Non-Executive Directors are also available and when they arise, making recommendations for the to meet shareholders to review strategy and corporate re-election of Directors and forming succession plans.
governance, or to discuss matters of concern.
The Terms of Reference for the Nominations Committee Shareholders views are communicated to the Board are available on request from the Company Secretary or as a whole.
on the Companys website, www.
The Companys AGM provides a further opportunity During the year, the Nominations Committee commissioned for investors to question the Directors, both formally and an independent search for a new non-executive director informally.
They also have a chance to meet any new and Simon Laffin was appointed following this exercise.
The number of proxy votes lodged for each The Donations Committee is responsible for motion is announced at the meeting.
evaluating charitable requests submitted to the Company The Company maintains a website at and makes decisions within the scope of pre-set criteria www.
com which provides information which are reviewed periodically.
The Committee meets as relating to the property portfolio, policy statements, necessary and in between meetings communicates on an finance, contacts, press releases and on screen annual informal basis.
The Committee works within a policy reports.
There is also a section containing the Companys which requires it to allocate at least 50% of the donations statutory documents.
Interested parties may contact the budget to organisations working in the property and Company by email.
construction industries, the local communities in which the Group operates and those involved in accessibility Going concern programmes and to causes promoting sustainability.
The following statement is made as required by provision It also encourages staff participation in the raising of C. 1.2 of the Code: funds for charity, by matching the fundraising efforts of After making enquiries, including reviewing the individual employees who participate in charitable events Groups budgets and available finance, the Directors have up to a maximum of 500 per employee.
The Committee is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate currently chaired by Joan MacNaughton.
It comprises the resources to continue in operational existence for the Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
For this reason, they continue to adopt The Risk Committee comprises David Pangbourne, the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
John Plender, Simon Laffin, Martin Meech and Adrian Wyatt and is chaired by Rebecca Worthington.
Internal controls The Deputy Chief Executive and the other Non-Executive The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system Directors attend meetings by invitation.
Matters within of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
its wide ranging remit include financial and treasury However, such a system is designed to manage, rather issues, valuation, reputation, legal, corporate governance, than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business management, economic and operational risks.
objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or Lease code loss.
In accordance with the Code, the Board has in place The Company is in support of the initiatives set out in an ongoing system of identification, evaluation and The Code of Practice for Commercial Leases in England management of significant risks.
The effectiveness of the and Wales, which was launched on 22 April 2002.
Groups system of internal controls was reviewed during The Code contains a range of recommendations which the period, both by the Audit Committee and by the are deemed to represent best practice between principals Board.
This review included financial, operational, and their representatives in landlord and tenant matters.
During the year and up to the date of this report, the Board was not aware of any material risks or incidents not previously assessed.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 79 Risk identification: managers are responsible for ongoing The Group has entered into a number of joint ventures, identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to the most material being the Quercus Healthcare Property their areas and for taking appropriate action.
Risks may be Partnership, the iQ Property Partnership and Greenwich associated with a variety of internal or external sources Peninsula Regeneration Limited, which are not controlled including control breakdowns, disruption in information by the Company.
These have therefore not been included systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory as part of the Group for the purposes of the internal control requirements.
The risks identified and the actions taken to assessment.
minimise or eliminate them are assessed on a regular The Board is committed to following corporate basis by the internal auditors who report to the Audit governance best practice wherever possible and has Committee.
Significant findings are presented to the undertaken to review its position annually.
It has Board and can result in refinements to internal procedures.
considered its system of internal controls and its Control environment: the Group is committed to the effectiveness for the financial year and up to the date highest standards of business conduct and seeks to of this report and, in its opinion, the process accords maintain these standards across all of its operations.
The Board considers it has an appropriate organisational By order of the Board structure for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order to achieve the Sue Dixon Groups objectives.
Company Secretary Lines of responsibility and delegation of authority 5 June 2008 are documented.
Information and communication: periodic strategic reviews are carried out which include the consideration of long term projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
Annual budgets and strategic plans are prepared.
Periodic forecasts support the active monitoring of the Groups performance against plan.
Both results and forecasts are consolidated and presented to the Board on a regular basis.
The other key elements of the Groups system of internal control are as follows: regular meetings of the Board and the Audit Committee, whose overall responsibilities are set out in this report and the Audit Committees Terms of Reference: a management structure designed to enable effective decision making with clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
An important part of this structure is a weekly meeting of the Executive Directors to review the ongoing business and decide on proposed acquisitions divestments and capital expenditure: agreed operational procedures, both internal and in dealings with external bodies, which assist in the maintenance of uniformly high standards: the measurement of financial performance at least once every three months against budgets and long term financial plans: consideration by the Risk Committee of issues which may affect the Group on a wider basis: and investigation by the internal auditor of areas of specific risk.
