Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 74 reviewing the nature and scope of the external audit Audit Committee report and monitoring the external auditors independence and effectiveness: forming policy on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditor: considering reports of the internal and external auditors in the light of current corporate governance practice: Introduction and The Audit Committee submits its report for the year reviewing arrangements for staff to raise financial ended 31 March 2008, which sets out the Groups audit concerns in confidence.
policy and the role of the Committee in monitoring the financial systems and the management of external and The Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually, internal auditors which are carried out in accordance with may be found on the Companys website or are available current legislation and best practice.
on request from its registered office.
Once again, the Directors will be seeking approval of The Committee confirms that there has been an the Groups Audit Committee Report from its shareholders ongoing process in place for the identification, evaluation at its AGM.
and management of risk during the period to the date of the publication of this report, and the Committee is not Audit Committee aware of any previously unidentified risks.
The Audit Committee comprises all the Non-Executive Directors and since October 2002 has been chaired by Internal control David Pangbourne who is a former partner with Deloitte The Board recognises that it is ultimately responsible for & Touche LLP and a qualified Chartered Accountant.
the system of internal control and for reviewing its During the year, the Committee met five times with full effectiveness.
In carrying out its duties, it delegates attendance on each occasion, except for one meeting detailed responsibility for internal control to the Audit where David Pangbourne was absent through illness.
Management prepares financial statements Chairman will be present at the AGM to answer questions and disclosures in accordance with applicable rules and from shareholders and offers himself for re-election.
regulations which the Committee reviews for clarity, The Finance Director, the Chief Financial Officer and completeness, accuracy and context, and on which it others attend by invitation.
The Committee Chairman met reports back to the Board.
with the external auditor twice during the year without The Group is committed to the highest standards of management being present.
The Committee also met the business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards valuers of the Groups principal properties prior to the across all of its operations.
The Group has what it believes release of the interim and preliminary results, with the to be an appropriate organisational structure for planning, external auditors present.
executing, controlling and monitoring business operations In addition, the Committee has access to funding for in order to achieve its objectives.
any further independent legal, accounting or other advice The Group has procedures designed to ensure it believes to be necessary for the effective execution complete and accurate accounting, and to limit the of its duties.
potential exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Control The duties of the Audit Committee are set out in its measures undertaken include physical controls, Terms of Reference, which were reviewed and approved segregation of duties, reviews by management, and during the period and include: internal and external audit.
In accordance with the Combined Code on monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and Corporate Governance, the effectiveness of the Groups any financial announcements and significant reporting system of internal control was kept under review during judgements therein: the period, both by the Committee and by the Board.
considering and making recommendations to the Board This review included financial, operational and regarding the appointment or removal of the internal and compliance issues.
external auditors: The Board considers its policies and procedures to be robust whilst recognising that such a system is reviewing internal financial controls: designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only internal audit function: reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 75 Monitoring is achieved through assessment by the During the year, the Committee reviewed its procedures internal auditors at the direction of the Committee and to ensure the independence and objectivity of the external the presentation to the Board of findings together with auditor.
The auditor has its own internal procedures in recommendations of any appropriate corrective actions to place to ensure that none of the audit team has a personal be taken.
During the year, Grant Thornton carried out the or financial interest in the Company which might impair internal audit function and is carrying out a comprehensive their judgement or objectivity.
Furthermore, it is the audit programme.
Representatives of Grant Thornton auditors policy that the lead audit director be rotated at attend the Committee meetings on request to discuss least every five years, in line with which the audit director any issues arising from their work and answer questions in charge of the audit team was replaced in April 2003 and directly.
The scope of the internal audit work was will be replaced again during 2008. reviewed during the period and agreed with the The Groups policy regarding provision of non-audit Committee Chairman and Finance Director.
services by the auditor includes a requirement that any The Group has in place a whistle-blowing policy commitment to fees of 20,000 or more to the auditor for under which members of staff with concerns may raise non-audit services must be given prior permission from these in confidence under procedures contained in the either the Committee or the Board.
The total value of the staff handbook.
auditors fees was as follows: 292,000 for audit fees and 111,000 for non-audit fees.
A breakdown of these can be External auditor found in note 4 i on page 112.
Deloitte & Touche LLP The Groups external auditor was first appointed in April provided taxation advice from 1 April 2004.
In July 1996, the audit was transferred to a corporate body, KPMG Audit Plc the external auditor.
David Pangbourne The Committee makes recommendations on the Chairman of Audit Committee appointment of, and approves the remuneration of, the 5 June 2008 external auditor, with particular regard to the setting of appropriate parameters of the audit.
It also ensures the external auditors overall work plan is consistent with the terms of engagement and reviews the audit representation letters prior to signature by management.
The Committee meets the external auditor periodically to ensure a direct line of communication, to review its independence and to agree the audit plan.
The Committee reviews significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of preliminary, interim and other price sensitive public reports.
The Chairman and the Committee discuss any major accounting or other audit issues that arise with the external auditor.
At the end of the audit cycle, the external auditors report is reviewed by the Committee, which reports the auditors findings and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the audit process itself, including: whether the auditor has met the management plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in handling key accounting audit judgements and systems of internal control: obtaining feedback from key personnel: and the content of the management letter.
