36 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board is responsible to shareholders Throughout the year the Board was not approval and management of Group for the management and control of the compliant with the provision of the Code which strategy: Companys activities and is committed to the requires that at least half the Board, excluding approval of the annual operating and capital highest standards of Corporate Governance.
the Chairman, are Independent Non-Executive expenditure budgets and any material The principal governance rules applying to Directors.
However, the Board considers that changes: UK companies listed on the London Stock under Savills current operational structure Exchange are contained in the Combined it is appropriate for the key members of the review of performance, assessed against the Code on Corporate Governance adopted executive management team to be members Groups strategy, objectives, business plans by the Financial Reporting Council in June of the Savills plc Board and that there is an and budgets: 2006 The Code.
This report explains how the appropriate balance between Executive and approval of interim and preliminary Company has complied with the provisions of Non-Executive Directors so that no individual announcements and the Annual Report the Code and explains where the Company or small group of individuals dominates the and Accounts: has departed from them.
The Non-Executive Directors have a breadth of business approval of the dividend policy: The Board considers that, throughout the experience and expertise and provide a period under review, with the exception of one approval of any significant changes in strong independent element to the Board.
area detailed below see Board composition accounting policies or practices: The Board will keep under review the need for and balance, the Company has complied with any changes to the composition of the Board.
extension of the Groups activities and the provisions recommended in Section 1 into new geographic areas: of the Code which applies to the financial Since 1 November 2004, Timothy Ingram has period that is the subject of this Annual Report been the Senior Independent Director.
He is approval of any significant acquisitions and Accounts.
available to shareholders if they have concerns or investments: which have not been addressed by contact Board composition and balance any decision to divest or close any Group with the Chairman or Group Chief Executive.
Throughout the year the Board comprised a business: Non-Executive Chairman, four Independent Functioning of the Board delegation of the appropriate authorities Non-Executive Directors and six Executive The Directors receive management information, and agreeing terms of reference for its Directors.
The biographies of the current including financial, operating and strategic various committees: Board members appear on pages 32 and 33. reports, in advance of Board meetings.
During the year the Board held eight scheduled delegation of the appropriate authorities The posts of Chairman and Group Chief meetings and a separate strategic review to to the Group Executive Board: and Executive are separated.
The Chairman is confirm future Group strategy.
Attendance by responsible for the workings and leadership the appointment of new Directors.
Directors at scheduled meetings is outlined in of the Board and for the balance of its the attendance of meetings table on page 39.
The Non-Executive Directors meet separately membership.
The Chief Executive is When unable to be present in person, Directors at least twice each year without the presence of responsible for leading and managing the may attend by audio or video-conference.
the Executive Directors and also meet without business within the authorities delegated When Directors are not able to attend Board or the Chairman, at which time the Chairmans by the Board.
Committee meetings, their comments on the performance is appraised.
Martin Angle, Timothy Ingram, Charles McVeigh papers to be considered at that meeting are All Directors receive detailed papers in advance and Fields Wicker-Miurin are Independent relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman.
The Board considers The Board has adopted a formal schedule of that the Non-Executive Directors are matters specifically referred to it for decision There is an approved procedure for Directors independent of management and have no which is under continuous review.
These to take independent professional advice in the business or other relationship which could matters reserved for the Board include: performance of their duties at the Groups interfere materially with the exercise of expense.
During 2008, no Director obtained their judgement.
On 7 May 2008, Aubrey Adams retired The Group Company Secretary is responsible from the Board and he was succeeded as for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for advising the Board on Group Chief Executive by Jeremy Helsby.
On 26 November 2008, it was announced governance matters.
In addition, all the that Mark Dearsley would be resigning as Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary.
Group Finance Director on 13 February 2009 to join Partnership Assurance.
37 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance Report Board committees Audit Committee The Committee also considers on an ongoing The Board has delegated certain authorities The Committee consists of the four basis the independence of the external auditors to committees each with formal terms of independent Non-Executive Directors.
and has established policies to consider the reference, which are available on request or The Committee is chaired by Fields appropriateness or otherwise of appointing the on the Companys website www.
Wicker-Miurin and met six times during the external auditors to perform non-audit services.
The membership of each committee is detailed year.
The meetings are also attended by As detailed on page 35 the external auditors on pages 32 and 33.
The principal committees the Non-Executive Chairman, Group Chief are  LLP.
The external of the Board are as follows: Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, auditors are responsible for the annual audit Group Financial Controller, the internal auditors, and have also provided certain non-audit Nomination Committee the external auditors, Group Risk Director, services to the Company, principally advice The Committee consists of the four Group Company Secretary and other on treasury and taxation matters.
The Audit independent Non-Executive Directors, senior executives of the Group by invitation.
Committee is satisfied that such work was the Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
The Board considers that the members of the best undertaken by  The Committee is chaired by the Group Audit Committee collectively have sufficient LLP and the objectivity of the external auditors Chairman, Peter Smith.
The Committee meets recent and relevant financial experience to has not been impaired by reason of this at least once a year and met twice in 2008. carry out the functions of the Committee.
The Committee provides a forum to consider Board vacancies or new positions on the The Committee is authorised to investigate The internal auditors are KPMG who serve Board of Directors, whether to recommend any matter within its terms of reference and, the Group on a global basis.
The UK and the re-election of a Director and to make where necessary, to obtain external legal the majority of the non-UK businesses have recommendations to the Board on certain or other independent professional advice.
established whistleblowing procedures to matters including its composition and balance.
The Committees activities during the year enable employees to raise concerns about have included: possible improprieties in financial reporting The Companys Articles of Association provide and other matters on a confidential basis.
that Directors must submit themselves for reviewing the half-year and annual financial The consistency of arrangements outside the re-election every three years and that newly statements with particular reference to UK continues to be developed with the issue of appointed Directors must submit themselves accounting policies, together with significant a Group-wide whistleblowing policy which sets for re-election at the first Annual General estimates and financial reporting judgements out clear standards and procedures that all Meeting after their appointment.
In making and the disclosures made therein: Group companies must adhere to operating recommendations to shareholders for the reviewing management representations their own whistleblowing policies.
re-appointment of any Director, the Nomination made to the external auditors: Committee considers that Directors performance and ongoing contribution to reviewing the Groups procedures to ensure the success of the Company and makes its that all relevant information is disclosed: relevant recommendation to the Board.
discussing any issues arising out of the During the year the Committee commenced interim review or the full year audit with the process to identify a successor to the external auditors in the absence of Mark Dearsley as Group Finance Director management where appropriate : following his decision to resign from the Board monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of with effect from 13 February 2009 to join the internal audit function and reviewing all Partnership Assurance.
Specialist external reports prepared by the internal auditors and search consultants were retained to carry out assessing managements responsiveness to the search for a suitable candidate.
Following such reports: this search, Simon Shaw will join the Board as Group Chief Financial Officer with effect making recommendations to the Board from 16 March 2009. with regard to continuing the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor: overseeing the Groups relations with the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process: and reviewing, and assessing the effectiveness of, the Groups internal financial controls together with its internal control and risk management systems see pages 30 and 31.
38 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance Report Remuneration Committee The Committee is also responsible for Board performance and evaluation The Committee consists of the four determining the fees payable to the Chairman.
In accordance with established practice, a independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee does not deal with the fees formal review of Board performance, led by It is chaired by Charles McVeigh and meets at paid to the Non-Executive Directors which are Tim Ingram, the Senior Independent Director, least three times a year to determine Company decided by the Executive Directors.
The Report was undertaken during the year to identify policy on senior executive remuneration and of the Remuneration Committee is set out on areas where Board performance and to agree the remuneration packages of the pages 42 to 51.
The Remuneration Report will procedures might be further improved.
The Committee takes be put to shareholders at the Annual General The findings were reported at a meeting on the advice of external consultants from time to Meeting in 2009.
The Board will continue time and did so during the year from Towers to keep its performance under review and Group Executive Board Perrin.
Towers Perrin provide no other services currently anticipates that another review will Until 31 January 2008, Savills plc operated to the Group.
The Group Chief Executive is be carried out in 2009. an Executive Sub Committee ESC, which consulted on the remuneration packages of comprised the Group Chief Executive and the Directors conflicts of interest the other Executive Directors and attends Executive Directors.
Any senior executive of From 1 October 2008, Directors have had a Committee meetings by invitation, except the Group could be invited by the Committee statutory duty to avoid situations in which they when his own remuneration arrangements are from time to time to attend all or part of a have, or could have, an interest that conflicts being discussed.
Given the central part that Committee meeting.
or possibly may conflict with the interests of remuneration plays in the success of the the Company.
A Director will not be in breach Group, in terms of recruitment, motivation With effect from February 2008, the ESC of that duty if the relevant matter has been and retention of high quality employees, the was superseded by a new Group Executive authorised in accordance with the Articles of Chairman has also been invited to attend Board GEB with revised and broader terms of Association by the other Directors.
The Articles meetings of the Committee.
With effect from reference to clarify its role as the key executive of Association were amended to include the 1 April 2009 advantage will be taken of the committee in the Group.
The GEB comprises relevant authorisation for Directors to approve amendment to the Combined Code and the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief such conflicts by a resolution of shareholders the Chairman will become a member of Financial Officer, the managing directors of the at the AGM held on 7 May 2008. the Remuneration Committee.
The Group main operating subsidiaries and the Group Company Secretary is secretary to the Company Secretary.
Under the leadership At its meeting in September 2008, the Board Committee and also provides advice to it.
of the Group Chief Executive, the GEB is approved a set of guiding principles on responsible for the day-to-day operations managing conflicts and approved a process of the Group including risk management, for identifying current and future actual and reviews Group policy and codes of conduct, potential conflicts of interest.
It also agreed that authorises certain investments, monitors the Nominations Committee would review Group performance and deals with other authorised conflicts annually or if and when a specific matters delegated to it by the Board.
new potential conflict situation was identified The GEB usually meets monthly.
or a potential conflict situation materialised.
Actual and potential conflicts of interest that were identified by each Director were subsequently authorised by the Board, subject to appropriate conditions in accordance with the guiding principles.
39 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance Report Attendance at meetings Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings convened in the year ended 31 December 2008 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in year 8 5 6 2 Attended Attended Attended Attended Non-Executive Directors Peter Smith 8 2 Martin Angle 7 5 6 1 Timothy Ingram 8 4 5 2 Fields Wicker-Miurin 8 5 5 2 Charles McVeigh 8 5 6 2 Executive Directors Aubrey Adams resigned 7 May 2008 2 Mark Dearsley resigned 13 February 2009 8 Jeremy Helsby 8 Simon Hope 8 Robert McKellar 8 Rupert Sebag-Montefiore 8 Members of the GEB 40 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance Report Relations with shareholders Key elements of the Groups system of risk a Group Policy Framework defining The Group recognises the importance management and internal control are: Group-wide delegated authorities and of maintaining regular dialogue with its control procedures, supported by subsidiary a comprehensive system for planning shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and business specific policies, processes and and reporting the performance of each Group Chief Financial Officer have a regular standards, which was substantially updated operating subsidiary.
The GEB and Board programme of meetings and presentations during 2008 and is subject to ongoing review meet regularly and review the Groups with analysts and investors which ensures by the Group Risk Committee in light of results against plan and the previous year.
that the Board is aware of shareholders key risk reporting and our changing risk The Group regularly reviews performance views, including presentations at the time of environment: forecasts.
Clear responsibilities are given to the Companys preliminary announcement operational and financial managers for the a programme of assurance activities of annual and interim results.
The Board also maintenance of effective financial controls which assess the effectiveness of our reviews a report at least twice each year from and the production of accurate and timely internal controls in respect of our key risks its corporate broker on feedback from investors financial management information: which includes: and the markets view of the Company.
the regular review and assessment of the a programme of internal audits undertaken The Annual General Meeting provides performance of the business including in in accordance with an annual risk based the Board with a valuable opportunity to relation to risk management and internal plan approved by the Audit Committee.
communicate with private shareholders and control by the Board and its sub committees, The plan is designed to ensure that internal is generally attended by the all the Directors.
including the GEB: audit reviews are focused on priority Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask controls across the Group to provide both questions during the meeting and to meet attendance at operating subsidiary and independent review and challenge on Directors following the conclusion of the formal associate boards by Executive Directors.
the effectiveness of these controls, and part of the meeting.
In accordance with the These boards and their associated the promotion of good practice and Code the level and manner of voting of proxies committees also meet regularly and have consistency in their development: lodged on each resolution at the AGM is formal reporting structures.
Directors of declared at the meeting and published on the operating subsidiaries are also closely compliance programmes within our Company website.
The Directors aim to give involved in the day-to-day business of their regulated businesses in support of the as much notice of the AGM as possible which respective operations, and are tasked Groups commitment to conduct its will be at least 21 days, as required by the with identifying key risks and ensuring that business responsibly and in accordance Companys Articles of Association.
appropriate action is taken to manage these: with all laws and regulations to which its business activities are subject: and The Company has taken advantage of a Group Risk Management Policy which sets the provisions within the Companies Act out the process for identifying, evaluating, an annual self assessment and certification 2006 which allows communications with assessing and managing the key risks to the by management of the existence and shareholders to be made electronically where Groups business objectives, supported by effectiveness of the controls within each of shareholders have not requested hard copy an appropriate organisational structure and our operating subsidiaries.
Details of the information clearly defined management responsibilities: collated for review and challenge by the available for shareholders can be found Group Risk Committee and onward a Group Risk Committee which reports to on the inside back cover.
reporting to the Group Executive Board the Group Executive Board and is tasked and Audit Committee.
Information about the Company is also with the review, discussion and challenge of available on the website at www.
com key risks reported, the ongoing Group-wide procedures available to employees who development of internal control and the are concerned about possible impropriety, Internal control and risk management financial or otherwise, and who may wish to monitoring of internal audits and other The Board has overall responsibility for sources of assurance on the effectiveness ensure that action is taken without fear of establishing and maintaining the Groups of internal controls.
The Committee consists victimisation or reprisal.
system of risk management and internal of the Group Chief Financial Officer, senior control to safeguard shareholders investments subsidiary business management and Group and the Groups assets, and for reviewing the function heads including the Group Risk effectiveness of this system.
However, such Director, Group Company Secretary and a system is designed to manage rather than Group IT Director: eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
41 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance Report The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board Going concern has reviewed the effectiveness of the system The Groups business activities, together of risk management and internal control.
with the factors likely to affect its future In performing its review of effectiveness, the development, performance and position are Audit Committee considered the following set out in the business review on pages 04 to reports and activities: 31.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities internal audit reports on the review of are described in the Financial Review on pages priority controls across the Group and the 24 and 25.
In addition, Note 3 to the financial monitoring of management actions arising: statements includes the Groups objectives, managements own assessment of policies and processes for managing its capital: the performance of the system of risk its financial risk management objectives: details management and internal control of its financial instruments and hedging during 2008: activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Invitation of key financial and operational managers to present on the operation of The Group has considerable financial resources the system of risk management and internal together with a broad spread of businesses control within their businesses.
across different geographic areas and sectors some of which enjoy stable income under reports from the Group Risk Committee contract with a number of customers.
As a including reporting on Group-wide key consequence, the Directors believe that the risk assessment activity and annual self Group is well placed to manage its business assessment findings: and risks successfully despite the current uncertain reports from the External Auditor on any economic outlook.
issues identified during the course of After making enquiries, the Directors have their work.
a reasonable expectation that the Company The Board, in reviewing the effectiveness of and the Group have adequate resources the system of internal control, can confirm that to continue in operational existence for the necessary actions have been, or are being, foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue taken to remedy any significant failings or to adopt the going concern basis in preparing weaknesses identified from that review.
the Annual Report and Accounts.
By order of the Board Peter Smith Chairman 10 March 2009
