Directors report statutory and corporate governance information This section of the Directors report contains The trustee of The 3i Group Employee Trust The administrative services contract between statutory and corporate governance information the Employee Trust has waived subject to 3i plc and 3i Investments plc may be terminated for the year to 31 March 2008 the year.
certain minor exceptions all dividends declared by either party on three months notice.
by the Company after 26 May 1994 in respect The administrative services contracts between Principal activity of shares from time to time held by the 3i plc and other Group companies may be 3i Group plc is a world leader in private equity.
Employee Trust 9,881,992 ordinary shares as terminated by either party on reasonable notice.
The principal activity of the Company and at 31 March 2008.
In addition, as at that date its subsidiaries the Group is investment.
holders of certain performance share awards Business review The Companys investment policy is set out granted under The 3i Group Discretionary Share The Groups development during the year to on page 9.
Plan in respect of an aggregate of 985,909 31 March 2008, its position at that date and ordinary shares, have waived all dividends in the Groups likely future development are Tax and investment company status relation to those shares for the duration of the detailed in the Chairmans statement on page The Company is an investment company as three year performance periods relating to 3, the Chief Executives statement on pages 6 defined by section 833 of the Companies the awards.
and 7 and the Business review on pages 8 Act 2006 and carries on business as an to 43. investment trust.
Operations The Group operates through a network of Articles of Association HM Revenue & Customs has approved the offices in Europe, Asia and the US.
The Group The amendment of the Companys Articles of Company as an investment trust under section manages a number of funds established with Association is governed by relevant statutes.
842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act The Articles may be amended by special major institutions and other investors to make 1988 for the financial period to 31 March resolution of the shareholders in general equity and equity-related investments 2007.
Since that date the Company has meeting.
predominantly in unquoted businesses in directed its affairs to enable it to continue Europe and Asia.
It also advises two UK listed to be so approved.
Share capital investment companies: 3i Infrastructure The issued share capital of the Company as at Limited established to make investments in Regulation 31 March 2008 comprised 382,741,094 infrastructure assets and 3i Quoted Private 3i Investments plc, 3i Europe plc and 3i Nordic 19 ordinary shares of 73 22p each and Equity Limited established to acquire influential plc, wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, 16,566,194 B shares cumulative preference or controlling stakes in small and mid-cap are authorised and regulated by the FSA under shares of 1p each, which represented 99.94% quoted companies.
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. and 0.06% respectively of the nominal value of Where applicable, certain Group subsidiaries the Companys issued share capital.
Further Management arrangements businesses outside the United Kingdom are details of the share capital structure of the 3i Investments plc acts as investment manager regulated locally by relevant authorities.
Company are set out in notes 22 and 26 on to the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
During the year, the issued Contracts for these investment management Results and dividends share capital of the Company altered as set and other services, for which regulatory The financial statements of the Company and out below.
authorisation is required, provide for fees based the Group for the year to 31 March 2008 on the work done and costs incurred in providing Ordinary shares appear on pages 80 to 105. such services.
These contracts may be Pre-consolidation ordinary share capital Total recognised income and expense for the terminated by either party on reasonable notice.
movements The issued share capital of the year was 792 million 2007: 1,075 million.
Company as at 1 April 2007 was 461,106,007 3i plc provides the Group with certain corporate An interim dividend of 6.1p per ordinary share in 69 ordinary shares of 62 88p each.
This increased and administrative services, for which no respect of the year to 31 March 2008 was paid by 1,794,733 shares to 462,900,740 ordinary regulatory authorisation is required, under on 2 January 2008.
The Directors recommend a 69 shares of 62 88p each in the period from contracts which provide for fees based on the final dividend of 10.9p per ordinary share be 1 April 2007 to 13 July 2007 on the issue of work done and costs incurred in providing such paid in respect of the year to 31 March 2008 shares to the trustee of The 3i Group Share services together with a performance fee based to shareholders on the register at the close of Incentive Plan and on the exercise of options on realised profits on the sale of assets.
business on 20 June 2008. under the Groups executive share option plans.
56 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders Consolidation of ordinary share capital Pursuant B shares B share repurchases At the EGM on 11 July to resolutions passed at an Extraordinary General B share issue Pursuant to resolutions passed at 2007, the Directors were authorised to Meeting EGM of the Company on 11 July the EGM on 11 July 2007: repurchase up to 651,370,020 B shares in the 2007, the issued ordinary share capital of the Company until the Companys AGM in 2008. a the authorised share capital of the Company Company, of 462,900,740 ordinary shares of In the year to 31 March 2008, the Company was increased by the creation of an additional 69 62 88p each, was on 16 July 2007 repurchased and cancelled 628,537,525 50,000,000 B shares cumulative preference consolidated into 393,465,629 ordinary shares B shares representing 2.12% of the nominal shares of 1p each : and 19 of 73 22p each.
value of the Companys total called-up share b on 16 July 2007, the Company issued capital as at 16 July 2007 pursuant to this Post-consolidation ordinary share capital 636,473,739 B shares on the basis of 11 authority for an aggregate consideration of movements At the Annual General Meeting new B shares for 8 existing ordinary shares 798,242,657.
These shares were repurchased AGM on 11 July 2007, the Directors were 69 of 62 88p held on the register of members as part of the Companys arrangements to authorised to repurchase up to 46,111,000 on 13 July 2007. return capital to shareholders.
16,566,194 ordinary shares in the Company representing B shares remained in issue as at 31 March 2008. approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 9 May 2007 until Major interests in ordinary shares the Companys AGM in 2008 or 10 October Notifications of the following voting interests in the Companys ordinary share capital had been 2008, if earlier.
In the year to 31 March 2008, received by the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency the Company repurchased and cancelled 19 Rules as at 31 March 2008 and 1 May 2008: 22 12,000,000 ordinary shares of 73 p each representing 2.99% of the nominal value of % of % of the Companys total called-up share capital as at As at issued As at issued 16 July 2007 pursuant to this authority for an 31 March share 1 May share Nature of aggregate consideration of 120,352,302.
2008capital 2008capital holding AXA S. A. and its group In the period from 16 July 2007 to 31 March of companies 41,760,144 10.91 44,788,612 11.7 Direct and 2008, a total of 1,275,465 ordinary shares 19 indirect of 73 22p were issued to the trustee of The 3i Group Share Incentive Plan, on the The Goldman exercise of options under the Groups executive Sachs Group, Inc 22,865,000 5.97 22,865,000 5.97 Indirect share option plans and on conversion of BlackRock Investment 2,000 nominal of the 550 million 3i Group Management 1.375 per cent Convertible Bonds due 2008.
UK Limited 22,737,966 4.93 22,737,966 4.93 Indirect Accordingly, between 16 July 2007 and Lloyds TSB 31 March 2008, the share capital of the Group Plc 15,745,619 4.11 15,745,619 4.11 Indirect Company decreased by 10,724,535 ordinary Legal & General shares to 382,741,094 ordinary shares of 19 Group plc and or 73 22p each.
its subsidiaries 15,554,776 4.01 17,732,765 4.63 Direct Prudential plc group of companies 11,725,266 3.02 11,725,266 3.02 Direct Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 57 Directors report statutory and corporate governance information continued Directors interests Rights and restrictions attaching to shares In accordance with FSA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 1, Directors interests in the shares of the Company A summary of the rights and restrictions in respect of which transactions are notifiable to the Company under FSA Disclosure and attaching to shares as at 31 March 2008 is set Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 R as at 31 March 2008 are shown below: out below.
The 2008 Notice of AGM contains a special resolution proposing the adoption of new Ordinary Articles of Association in substitution for the shares B shares existing Articles of Association.
If this resolution Baroness Hogg 20,956 is passed, the rights and restrictions attaching to shares will be altered as set out in the form of O H J Stocken 19,651 Articles of Association submitted to the AGM.
P E Yea 742,360 547,847 A summary of the differences between the S P Ball 304,915 260,534 current and proposed Articles of Association is W Mesdag set out in the 2008 Notice of AGM.
C J M Morin-Postel 6,985 1,872 Holders of ordinary shares and B shares enjoy M J Queen 353,501 176,478 the rights accorded to them under the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Sir Robert Smith 8,186 Company and under the laws of England and F G Steingraber Wales.
Any share may be issued with or have R W A Swannell 10,350 attached to it such rights and restrictions as the Company by ordinary resolution or failing such The share interests shown above for each of Mr P E Yea, Mr S P Ball and Mr M J Queen include resolution the Board may decide.
certain Performance Share awards and Super-performance Share awards which are subject to forfeiture and are detailed in the tables on pages 73 and 74 respectively.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Details of Directors share options under the Groups executive share option plans are shown in the Company and to appoint proxies and, in the case Directors remuneration report on page 72. of corporations, corporate representatives to In the period from 1 April 2008 to 1 May 2008, Mr P E Yea became interested in an additional attend, speak and vote at such meetings on their 45 ordinary shares and Mr S P Ball and Mr M J Queen became interested in an additional 42 behalf.
On a poll, holders of ordinary shares are ordinary shares each.
entitled to one vote for each share held.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Company's Annual Report and Accounts, to receive such dividends and other distributions as may lawfully be paid or declared on such shares and, on any liquidation of the Company, to share in the surplus assets of the Company after satisfaction of the entitlements of the holders of the B shares or such other shares with preferred rights as may then be in issue.
58 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders Holders of B shares are entitled, out of the latter circumstances the Company may apply for the rights and privileges attaching to those profits available for distribution in any year and an order directing that the relevant shares be shares including voting rights would in priority to any payment of dividend or other subject to certain restrictions including in be suspended.
"distribution to holders of ordinary shares, to a respect of the ability to exercise voting rights, to Participants under the 3i Group Share Incentive cumulative preferential dividend of 3.75% per transfer the shares validly and, except in the case Plan and certain participants under the 3i Group annum calculated on the amount of 127p per of a liquidation, to receive the payment of sums Performance Share Plan and the 3i Group B share ""the Return Amount""."
On a return of due from the Company.
In addition, the Deferred Bonus Plan, who beneficially own capital other than a solvent intra group reDirectors and the employees of the Company shares under these schemes which are held by a organisation holders of B shares are entitled to are subject to the Companys share dealing nominee on their behalf, cannot exercise directly receive in priority to any payment to holders of codes, such that approval may be required to the voting rights attaching to such shares but ordinary shares payment of the Return Amount deal in the Companys shares.
At any time on or can instruct the nominee to vote the shares in together with any accrued but unpaid dividends after 14 July 2009 or at any time when the accordance with their instructions.
but are not entitled to any further right of criteria for the listing of the B shares under the participation in the profits or assets of Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority are no In order to be able to attend and vote at a the Company.
longer met, the Company may appoint a person general meeting of the Company in respect of to execute a transfer on behalf of all the holders shares in the Company a person must be Holders of B shares are not entitled in their of the B shares in acceptance of an offer, paying entered on the register of members in respect of capacity as such to receive notice of or attend, the holders of B shares such amount as they those shares at such time not being earlier than speak or vote at general meetings of the would have been entitled to on a winding-up of 48 hours before the meeting as may be Company save where the B share dividend has the Company.
Certain restrictions on dealing in specified by the Company in the notice of remained unpaid for six months or more or and transferability of shares may also from time general meeting in accordance with Regulation where the business of the meeting includes to time be imposed by laws and regulations.
41 of the Uncertificated Securities consideration of a resolution for the winding-up Regulations 2001. of the Company other than a solvent intra There are no shares carrying special rights with group re-organisation in which case holders of regard to control of the Company.
There are no The Company is not aware of any agreements B shares shall be entitled to attend, speak and restrictions placed on voting rights of fully paid between holders of its securities that may vote only in relation to such resolution and in shares, save where in accordance with Article 13 restrict the transfer of shares or exercise of either case shall, on a poll, be entitled to one of the Companys Articles of Association a voting rights.
restriction notice has been served by the Company in respect of shares for failure to Debentures There are no restrictions on the transfer of fully comply with statutory notices or where a As detailed in notes 20 and 21 on page 99, paid shares in the Company, save as follows.
In transfer notice as described below has been as at 31 March 2008 the Company had in issue the case of uncertificated shares the Board may served in respect of shares and has not yet been 1.375 per cent Convertible Bonds due 2008, decline to register a transfer in the complied with.
Notes issued under the 3i Group plc circumstances set out in the Uncertificated 2,000,000 Note Issuance Programme and Securities Regulations or where a transfer is to In the circumstances specified in Article 38 of Notes issued under the 3i Group plc more than four joint holders.
In the case of the Companys Articles of Association the 1,000,000 Euro-Commercial Paper certificated shares the Board may decline to Company may serve a transfer notice on holders Programme.
register any transfer which is not in respect of of shares.
The relevant circumstances relate to: only one class of share, which is to more than a potential tax disadvantage to the Company, four joint holders, which is not accompanied by including the Companys assets being considered the certificate for the shares to which it relates, plan assets within the meaning of regulations which is not duly stamped in circumstances adopted under relevant US legislation, b the where a duly stamped instrument is required, or number of United States Residents who own where in accordance with section 794 of the or hold shares becoming 75 or more, or c the Companies Act 2006 a notice under section Company being required to be registered as an 793 of that Act has been served by the investment company under relevant US Company on a shareholder who has then failed legislation.
The notice would require the transfer to give the Company the information required by of the shares in respect of which the transfer the notice within the time specified in it.
In the notice has been given and pending such transfer Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 59 Directors report statutory and corporate governance information continued Corporate governance The Articles of Association also specifically A Group succession and contingency plan is Throughout the year, the Company complied empower the Board to exercise the Companys prepared by management and reviewed with the provisions of section 1 of the powers to borrow money and to mortgage or periodically by the Board.
The purpose of this Combined Code on corporate governance charge the Companys assets and any uncalled plan is to identify suitable candidates for published by the Financial Reporting Council in capital and to issue debentures and other succession to key senior management positions, June 2006. securities.
agree their training and development needs, and ensure the necessary human resources are in The Companys approach to The Board determines matters including financial place for the Company to meet its objectives.
corporate governance strategy and planning and takes major business The Company has a policy of seeking to comply decisions.
The Board has put in place an Meetings of the Board During the year, there with established best practice in the field of organisational structure.
This is further described were six meetings of the Board of Directors.
The Board has adopted under the heading internal control.
The Directors who served throughout the core values and Group standards which set out year attended all six meetings.
Mr W Mesdag The Board has approved a formal schedule of the behaviour expected of staff in their dealings attended the five meetings held since his matters reserved to it and its duly authorised with shareholders, customers, colleagues, appointment on 11 July 2007 and Committees for decision.
These include: suppliers and others who engage with the Mr F D Rosenkranz attended the one meeting Company.
One of the core values communicated approval of the Groups overall strategy, held before his retirement as a Director within the Group is a belief that the highest strategic plan and annual operating budget: on 11 July 2007. standard of integrity is essential in business.
approval of the Companys half-yearly and The principal matters considered by the Board The Boards responsibilities and processes annual financial statements and changes in the during the year in addition to matters formally The Board is responsible to shareholders for the Groups accounting policies or practices: reserved to the Board included: overall management of the Group and may changes relating to the capital structure of the the 3i Vision Plan 2008-2012, budget and exercise all the powers of the Company subject Company or its regulated status: financial resources: to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Memorandum and Articles of major capital projects: the Groups capital structure: Association and any directions given by special major changes in the nature of business regular reports from the Chief Executive: resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles of operations: Association empower the Board to offer, allot, the recommendations of the Valuations grant options over or otherwise dispose of the investments and divestments in the ordinary Committee on valuations of investments: unissued shares of the Company subject to course of business above certain limits set by the establishment of the 3i India relevant statutes on such terms as the Board the Board from time to time: Infrastructure Fund: may decide.
The Articles of Association adequacy of internal control systems: empower the Board to issue and buy back a review of the Groups advisory and corporate shares, which powers are exercisable in appointments to the Board and broking relationships: accordance with authorities approved from time Management Committee: the financial risk management framework: to time by shareholders in general meeting.
principal terms and conditions of employment At the AGM in July 2007, shareholders renewed the performance of co-investment funds: of members of Management Committee: and the Boards authority to allot ordinary shares and the review by Sir David Walker of to buy back ordinary shares on behalf of the changes in employee share schemes and other disclosure and transparency in the private Company subject to the limits set out in those long-term incentive schemes.
At the EGM in July 2007, Matters delegated by the Board to management shareholders authorised the Board to allot independence of non-executive Directors: and include implementation of the Board approved B shares and to buy back B shares on behalf of strategy, day-to-day operation of the business, corporate responsibility initiatives.
the Company, again subject to the limits set out the appointment and remuneration of all in those resolutions.
Details of the authorities executives below Management Committee and which the Board will be seeking at its 2008 the formulation and execution of risk AGM are set out in the 2008 Notice of AGM.
60 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders Information Reports and papers are circulated to The roles of the Chairman and the Directors the Directors in a timely manner in preparation Chief Executive The Board comprises the Chairman, six for Board and committee meetings.
These The division of responsibilities between the independent non-executive Directors and papers are supplemented by information Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive three executive Directors.
Biographical details specifically requested by the Directors from is clearly defined and has been approved by for each of the Directors are set out on pages time to time.
Baroness Hogg Chairman, Mr O H J Stocken, Mr P E Yea, Mr S P Ball, Performance evaluation During the year, the The Chairman The Chairman leads the Board in Mme C J M Morin-Postel, Mr M J Queen, Board conducted its annual evaluation of its own the determination of its strategy and in the Sir Robert Smith, Mr F G Steingraber and performance and that of its committees and achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman is Mr R W A Swannell served throughout the individual Directors.
The Chairman led the responsible for organising the business of the period under review.
Mr W Mesdag served as a process with the aid of external consultants, Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its Director from 11 July 2007.
Mr F D Rosenkranz The Zygos Partnership, who conducted agenda.
The Chairman has no involvement in served as a Director until 11 July 2007. interviews with all the Directors and members of the day-to-day business of the Group.
The Chairman also The Chairman facilitates the effective In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities spoke to each of the Directors and members of contribution of non-executive Directors and as Directors, non-executive Directors are Management Committee individually to obtain constructive relations between executive and expected to bring an independent judgment to their views.
The Zygos Partnerships written non-executive Directors.
The Chairman ensures bear on issues of strategy, performance, evaluation and the Chairmans own report were that regular reports from the Companys brokers resources and standards of conduct, and to help subsequently reported formally to the Board and are circulated to the non-executive Directors to the Board provide the Company with effective the Chairman also gave feedback to individual enable non-executive Directors to remain leadership.
They are also expected to ensure Directors.
The Senior Independent Director led a aware of shareholders views.
The Chairman high standards of financial probity on the part of review by the Directors of the performance of ensures effective communication with the the Company and to monitor the effectiveness the Chairman.
The Board performance evaluation included The Chief Executive The Chief Executive has The Boards discussions, and its approval of the consideration of the overall functioning of the direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day Groups strategic plan and annual budget, Board with particular focus on strategy, meeting basis and is accountable to the Board for the provide the non-executive Directors with the composition, the agenda, Board committees, financial and operational performance of the opportunity to contribute to and validate corporate responsibility, risk and succession Group.
The Chief Executive has formed a managements plans and assist in the issues.
The Board found the involvement of committee called Management Committee development of strategy.
The non-executive external consultants particularly useful in to enable him to carry out the responsibilities Directors receive regular management accounts, benchmarking the Companys own experience delegated to him by the Board.
The Committee reports and information which enable them to against that of other quoted companies and comprises the executive Directors, scrutinise the Companys and managements placing an external perspective on their Mr B N Carnegie-Brown, Ms D R Collis, performance against agreed objectives.
Mr K J Dunn, Mr C P Rowlands, Mr J B C Russell, Directors independence All the non-executive Mr A J M Taylor, Mr P Waller and During the review, the value of the two strategy Directors other than the Chairman, who was Mr G A R Zarzavatdjian.
The Committee sessions held each year, in addition to the regular independent on appointment are considered by meets on a regular basis to consider Board meetings, was endorsed by Directors.
the Board to be independent for the purposes of operational matters and the implementation The Board identified areas where its the Combined Code.
The Board assesses and of the Groups strategy.
working practices could be developed further.
reviews the independence of each of the nonIn particular, the expansion of the Management Senior Independent Director The Board has executive Directors at least annually, having Committee with the development of new appointed Mr O H J Stocken as Senior regard to the potential relevance and materiality business lines led the Board to note the value of Independent Director, to whom, in accordance of a Directors interests and relationships rather holding meetings attended by different groups, with the Combined Code, concerns can than applying rigid criteria in a mechanistic with some meetings attended by Directors be conveyed.
No Director was materially interested only and others with some or all members of in any contract or arrangement subsisting during Management Committee present.
or at the end of the financial period that was significant in relation to the business of the Company.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 61 Directors report statutory and corporate governance information continued Directors employment contracts Details of The reappointment of non-executive Directors The Boards recommendation for the executive Directors employment contracts are who have served for more than nine years is reappointment of Directors is set out in the set out in the Directors remuneration report on subject to annual review.
Mr F G Steingraber will retire from the Board at The Companys Articles of Association the conclusion of the 2008 AGM.
Training and development The Company has provide for: developed a training policy which provides a Directors indemnities The Companys Articles of a the minimum number of Directors to be two framework within which training for Directors is Association provide that, subject to the and the maximum to be twenty, unless planned with the objective of ensuring Directors provisions of the Companies Acts, the Directors otherwise determined by the Company by understand the duties and responsibilities of shall be indemnified against liabilities incurred by ordinary resolution: being a director of a listed company.
All Directors them as Directors in defending any proceedings are required to update their skills and maintain b Directors to be appointed by ordinary in which judgment is given in their favour, or their familiarity with the Company and its resolution of the Companys shareholders in where they have been acquitted or been granted business continually.
Presentations on different general meeting or by the Board: relief by the court.
As permitted by the aspects of the Companys business are made Companys Articles of Association, the Company c Directors appointed by the Board to retire at regularly to the Board.
On appointment, all nonhas maintained Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity the first AGM after their appointment and executive Directors have discussions with the Provisions as defined under relevant legislation for the number nearest to, but not Chairman and the Chief Executive following for the benefit of the Companys Directors exceeding, one-third of the remaining which appropriate briefings on the throughout the period.
Directors to retire by rotation with the responsibilities of Directors, the Companys Directors to retire being those who have Under the rules of the 3i Group Pension Plan business and the Companys procedures are been longest in office since their last the Plan, the Company has granted an arranged.
The Company provides opportunities appointment or reappointment at each indemnity to the directors of Gardens Pension for non-executive Directors to obtain a thorough AGM: Trustees Limited a corporate trustee of the Plan understanding of the Companys business by and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company meeting members of the senior management d all Directors to retire at least every against liabilities incurred as directors of that team who in turn arrange, as required, visits to three years: and corporate trustee.
e shareholders to have the power to remove The Boards committees During the year the Directors received briefings any Director by special resolution.
The Board is assisted by various standing on corporate responsibility matters, electronic Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, committees of the Board which report communications with shareholders and legal and retiring Directors are eligible for reappointment.
The membership of regulatory developments, including the The office of Director shall be vacated if the these committees is regularly reviewed by Companies Act 2006 in particular directors Director resigns, becomes bankrupt or is the Board.
When considering committee duties and changes to the Listing Rules for prohibited by law from being a Director or where membership and chairmanship, the Board aims closed-ended investment funds.
the Board so resolves following the Director to ensure that undue reliance is not placed on The Company has procedures for Directors to suffering from mental ill health or being absent particular Directors.
take independent legal or other professional from Board meetings for 12 months without the These committees all have clearly defined terms advice about the performance of their duties.
of reference which are available at Appointment and re-election of Directors In accordance with the Articles of Association, www.
The terms of reference of Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, at the AGM to be held on 9 July 2008: the Audit and Compliance Committee, the the Companies Acts and satisfactory Remuneration Committee and the Nominations i Mr W Mesdag, having been appointed as a performance evaluation, non-executive Committee provide that no one other than the Director by the Board since the AGM in Directors are appointed for an initial period of particular committee chairman and members 2007, will retire and, being eligible, offer three years.
Before the third and sixth may attend a meeting unless invited to attend himself for reappointment: and anniversaries of a non-executive Directors by the relevant committee.
first appointment, the Director discusses ii Mr O H J Stocken, Mr S P Ball and with the Board whether it is appropriate for Sir Robert Smith will retire by rotation a further three year term to be served.
and, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment as Directors.
62 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders Audit and Compliance Committee oversaw the Companys relations with its Chairman of the Board shall not chair the The Audit and Compliance Committee external auditors including assessing auditor Committee when dealing with the appointment comprises Mr O H J Stocken Chairman, performance, independence and objectivity, of the Chairmans successor.
Mme C J M Morin-Postel, Sir Robert Smith recommending the auditors reappointment During the year, the Nominations Committee and Mr F G Steingraber, all of whom and approving the auditors fees: and considered and recommended a candidate for served throughout the period, save for met with the external auditors in the absence appointment as a non-executive Director of the Mr F G Steingraber who served from 11 July of management.
Mr F D Rosenkranz served as a member of the Committee until 11 July 2007.
All the Remuneration Committee A formal, rigorous and transparent process for members of the Committee are independent The Remuneration Committee comprises the appointment of Directors has been non-executive Directors.
The Board is Sir Robert Smith Chairman, Baroness Hogg, established with the objective of identifying the satisfied that the Committee Chairman, Mr W Mesdag, Mme C J M Morin-Postel and skills and experience profile required of new Mr O H J Stocken, has recent and relevant Mr O H J Stocken, all of whom served Directors and identifying suitable candidates.
throughout the period, save for Baroness Hogg The procedure includes the appraisal and and Mr W Mesdag who served from selection of potential candidates, including During the year, there were three meetings of 11 July 2007.
Mr F D Rosenkranz and in the case of non-executive Directors the Committee.
The members who served Mr F G Steingraber served as members until whether they have sufficient time to fulfil their throughout the period attended all meetings.
All the members of the roles.
Specialist recruitment consultants assist Mr F G Steingraber attended the two meetings Committee are independent non-executive the Committee to identify suitable candidates held following his appointment and Directors, save for Baroness Hogg who was for appointment.
The Committees Mr F D Rosenkranz attended the one meeting independent on appointment as Chairman recommendations for appointment are put held before he ceased to be a member.
to the full Board for approval.
During the year, the Committee: During the year, there were six meetings of the Valuations Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal Remuneration Committee.
The members who The Valuations Committee comprises Baroness control environment of the Group and the served throughout the period attended all the Hogg Chairman, Mr O H J Stocken, Mr P E Yea, Groups compliance with its regulatory meetings.
Baroness Hogg and Mr W Mesdag Mr S P Ball and Mr R W A Swannell, all of whom requirements and received reports on bank attended the five meetings held following served throughout the period.
There were three covenants, third-party liabilities and offtheir appointment.
Mr F D Rosenkranz and meetings of the Valuations Committee during balance sheet liabilities: Mr F G Steingraber attended the one meeting the year.
The members who served throughout held before they ceased to be members.
Details the year attended all meetings.
reviewed and recommended to the Board the of the work of the Remuneration Committee are accounting disclosures comprised in the halfDuring the year, the Valuations Committee set out in the Directors remuneration report.
yearly and annual financial statements of the considered and made recommendations to the Company and reviewed the scope of the Nominations Committee Board on valuations of the Groups investments annual external audit plan and the external The Nominations Committee to be included in the half-yearly and annual audit findings: comprises Baroness Hogg Chairman, financial statements of the Group and reviewed Mr O H J Stocken, Mr P E Yea, Mr W Mesdag, valuations policy and methodology.
received regular reports from Group Risk Mme C J M Morin-Postel, Sir Robert Smith, Assurance and Audit the Groups internal audit The Company Secretary Mr F G Steingraber and Mr R W A Swannell, all function, monitored its activities and All Directors have access to the advice and of whom served throughout the period, save for effectiveness, and agreed the annual internal services of the Group Legal Counsel and Mr W Mesdag who served from 11 July 2007. audit plan: Company Secretary, who is responsible for Mr F D Rosenkranz served as a member until advising the Board, through the Chairman, on received regular reports from Group 11 July 2007.
During the year, there were two governance matters.
The Companys Articles of Compliance the Groups regulatory meetings of the Nominations Committee.
Association and the schedule of matters compliance function and Group Risk The members who served throughout the year reserved to the Board or its duly authorised Management Committee, and monitored their attended both meetings and Mr F D Rosenkranz committees for decision provide that the activities and effectiveness: attended the one meeting held before he ceased appointment and removal of the Company to be a Director.
The terms of reference of the Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
Nominations Committee provide that the Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 63 Directors report statutory and corporate governance information continued Relations with shareholders Portfolio management and voting policy The Group Risk Management Committees The Board recognises the importance of In relation to unquoted investments, the Groups activities are supported by the activities of maintaining a purposeful relationship with the approach is to seek to add value to the Investment Committee as well as two subCompanys shareholders.
The Chief Executive businesses in which the Group invests through committees, Financial Risk Committee and and the Finance Director, together with the the Groups extensive experience, resources and Operational Risk Committee.
Details of the risk Group Communications Director, meet with the contacts.
In relation to quoted investments, the management framework can be found in the Companys principal institutional shareholders to Groups policy is to exercise voting rights on Risk management section of the Business review discuss relevant issues as they arise.
The matters affecting its interests.
Chairman maintains a dialogue with shareholders The overall internal control process is regularly on strategy, corporate governance and Internal control reviewed by the Board and the Audit and Directors remuneration as required.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system Compliance Committee and complies with the of internal control and reviews its effectiveness The Board receives reports from the Companys internal control guidance for Directors on the at least annually.
Such a system is designed to brokers on shareholder issues and non-executive Combined Code issued by the Turnbull manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Directors are invited to attend the Companys Committee.
The process established for the to achieve business objectives and can provide presentations to analysts and are offered the Group includes: only reasonable and not absolute assurance opportunity to meet shareholders.
against material misstatement or loss.
Policies The Companys major shareholders are offered core values, Group standards and Group Through the regular meetings of the Board and the opportunity to meet newly-appointed noncontrols together comprising the Groups high the schedule of matters reserved to the Board executive Directors.
During the year such level principles and controls, with which all or its duly authorised committees for decision, shareholders were given the opportunity to staff are expected to comply: the Board aims to maintain full and effective meet Mr W Mesdag following his appointment control over appropriate strategic, financial, manuals of policies and procedures, applicable on 11 July 2007. operational and compliance issues.
The Board has to all business units, with procedures for The Company also uses its AGM as an put in place an organisational structure with reporting weaknesses and for monitoring opportunity to communicate with its clearly defined lines of responsibility and corrective action: shareholders.
At the Meeting, business delegation of authority.
The Board considers and a code of business conduct, with procedures presentations are made by the Chief Executive approves a strategic plan every two years and for reporting compliance therewith: and the Finance Director.
The Chairmen of the approves a budget on an annual basis.
In Remuneration, Audit and Compliance, and addition, there are established procedures and Processes Nominations Committees are available to answer processes for planning and controlling appointment of experienced and professional shareholders questions.
expenditure and the making of investments.
staff, both by recruitment and promotion, of There are also information and reporting systems the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted During the year, at the invitation of the for monitoring the Groups businesses and their responsibilities: Chairman, the Companys major shareholders performance.
met with the Chairman, the Chairmen of the a planning framework which incorporates a Audit and Compliance Committee and the The Group Risk Management Committee is a Board approved strategic plan, with objectives Remuneration Committee and the Company management committee formed by the Chief for each business unit: Secretary to discuss matters of corporate Executive and its purpose is to review the formal business risk reviews performed by governance and corporate responsibility relevant business of the Group in order to ensure that management which evaluate the potential to the Company and its shareholders.
business risk is considered, assessed and financial impact and likelihood of identified managed as an integral part of the business.
The 2007 Notice of AGM was dispatched to risks and possible new risk areas: There is an ongoing process for identifying, shareholders not less than 20 working days evaluating and managing the Groups significant the setting of control, mitigation and before the Meeting.
At that Meeting, voting on risks.
This process was in place for the year monitoring procedures and the review of each resolution was taken on a poll and the poll to 31 March 2008 and up to the date of actual occurrences, identifying lessons to be results were made available on the Companys this report.
64 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders a comprehensive system of financial reporting The external auditors independently and There are clearly defined staff policies for pay to the Board, based on an annual budget with objectively review the approach of management and working conditions.
The Groups monthly reporting of actual results, analysis of to reporting operating results and financial employment policies are designed to provide a variances, scrutiny of key performance condition.
In co-ordination with Group Risk competitive reward package which will attract measures and regular re-forecasting: Assurance and Audit, they also review and test and retain high quality staff, whilst ensuring that the system of internal financial control and the the cost element of these rewards remains at an regular treasury reports to the Board, which information contained in the annual financial appropriate level.
analyse the funding requirements of each class statements to the extent necessary for of assets, track the generation and use of The Groups remuneration policy is influenced by expressing their opinion.
capital and the volume of liquidity, measure market conditions and practices in the countries the Groups exposure to interest and exchange in which it operates.
All employees receive a Employment rate movements and record the level of base salary and are eligible for a performanceThe Groups policy is one of equal opportunity in compliance with the Groups funding related bonus.
Where appropriate, employees are the selection, training, career development and objectives: eligible to participate in Group share schemes to promotion of employees, regardless of age, encourage employees involvement in the a Group Compliance function whose role is to gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion performance of the Group.
Investment integrate regulatory compliance procedures and whether disabled or otherwise.
executives may also participate in coand best practices into the Groups systems: The Group treats applicants and employees with investment plans and carried interest schemes, well defined procedures governing the disabilities equally and fairly and provides which allow executives to share directly in the appraisal and approval of investments, facilities, equipment and training to assist future profits on investments.
Employees including detailed investment and divestment disabled employees to do their jobs.
Should an participate in local state or company pension approval procedures, incorporating appropriate employee become disabled during their schemes as appropriate to local market levels of authority and regular postemployment, efforts are made to retain them in conditions.
investment reviews: their current employment or to explore the opportunities for their retraining or Charitable and political donations Verification redeployment within the Group.
The Group also Charitable donations made by the Group in the a Group Risk Assurance and Audit function provides financial support to disabled employees year to 31 March 2008 amounted to which undertakes periodic examination of who are unable to work, as appropriate to local 454,130.
Excluding the Companys matching business units and processes and recommends market conditions.
of Give As You Earn contributions by staff, improvements in controls to management: charitable donations amounted to 324,397.
The Groups principal means of keeping in touch the external auditors who are engaged to Of this amount approximately 44% was donated with the views of its employees are through express an opinion on the annual financial to causes which aim to relieve poverty or benefit employee appraisals, informal consultations, statements: and the community, or both, approximately 29% was team briefings, and staff conferences and donated to charities which advance education, an Audit and Compliance Committee which surveys.
Managers throughout the Group have a and approximately 10% was donated to medical considers significant control matters and continuing responsibility to keep their staff fully charities.
Further details of charitable donations receives reports from Group Risk Assurance informed of developments and to communicate are set out in the Corporate responsibility report and Audit and the external auditors and the financial results and other matters of interest.
Group Compliance function on a regular basis.
This is achieved by structured communication including regular meetings of employees.
In line with Group policy, no donations were The internal control system is monitored and made to political parties during the year.
supported by a Group Risk Assurance and Audit The Group has clear grievance and disciplinary function which operates on an international basis procedures in place, which include and reports to management and the Audit and comprehensive procedures on discrimination Compliance Committee on the Groups and the Groups equal opportunities policy.
The work of Group Risk Assurance The Group also has an employee assistance and Audit is focused on the areas of greatest risk programme which provides a confidential, free to the Group determined on the basis of the and independent counselling service and is Groups risk management process.
available to all staff and their families in the UK.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 65 Directors report statutory and corporate governance information continued Policy for paying creditors provision of a multi-currency revolving credit to acquire all or a majority of the issued It is the policy of the Group to pay suppliers in facility to 3i Holdings plc and the Company.
shares of the Company or if any person accordance with the terms and conditions of the Under this agreement, the Company would proposes a scheme with regard to such relevant markets in which it operates.
Expenses be required to notify Nordea Bank AB publ acquisition other than a Newco Scheme as are paid on a timely basis in the ordinary course within five days of any change of control of defined and such offer or scheme having of business.
The Company had no trade creditors the Company.
Such notification would open a become unconditional in all respects the outstanding at the year end.
3i plc had trade negotiation period of 50 days from the date right to cast more than 50 per cent of the creditors outstanding at the year end of the change of control to determine votes which may ordinarily be cast on a poll representing on average 19 days purchases.
whether Nordea Bank AB publ would be at a general meeting of the Company has or willing to continue to make available the will become unconditionally vested in the Significant agreements facility and, if so, on what terms.
Failing offeror and or an associate as defined of The Company is a party to the following agreement and if so required by Nordea Bank the offeror.
agreements that take effect, alter or terminate AB publ, amounts outstanding would be on a change of control of the Company following required to be repaid and the facility Statement of Directors responsibilities a takeover bid: cancelled: The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial statements which give a true a 486 million Revolving Credit Facility c Limited Partnership Agreements dated and fair view of the state of affairs of the Agreement dated 20 September 2005, 12 July 2006, between 3i EFV GP Limited, Company and the Group as at the end of the between 3i Holdings plc, Barclays Capital, 3i Europartners V Verwaltungs GmbH & Co. year and of the profit for the year.
The Directors Bayerische Landesbank, London branch, KG, the Company and other investors from have responsibility for ensuring that proper Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Limited, time to time in relation to the formation of accounting records are kept which disclose with HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, The partnerships to carry on the business of reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Socit Gnrale, investing as the fund known as 3i Eurofund Group and enable them to ensure that the UBS Limited, WestLB AG, London branch and V. Under these agreements, the manager, 3i financial statements comply with the Companies the Company, in relation to the provision of a Investments plc, would be required to notify Act 1985.
They have a general responsibility for multi-currency revolving credit facility to 3i the investors of any change of control of the taking such steps as are reasonably open to Holdings plc and the Company.
If such a change of control occurs them to safeguard the assets of the Group and agreement, the Company would be required before the end of the relevant investment to prevent and detect fraud and other to notify Lloyds TSB Bank plc, in its capacity period, the managers powers to make new irregularities.
Suitable accounting policies, which as agent for the banks, within five days of investments on behalf of the partnerships follow generally accepted accounting practice any change of control of the Company.
Such would be suspended unless the investors had and are explained in the notes to the financial notification would open a negotiation period given consent before the change of control statements, have been applied consistently and of 50 days from the date of the change of occurred.
Where suspension occurs, the applicable accounting standards have been control to determine whether Majority investors may consent at any time before the followed.
In addition, these financial statements Banks as defined in the agreement would end of the investment period to the comply with International Financial Reporting be willing to continue to make available the resumption of the managers powers: and Standards as adopted by the European Union facility and, if so, on what terms.
Failing d 3i Group plc 550,000,000 1.375 per cent and reasonable and prudent judgments and agreement and if so required by the Majority Convertible Bonds due 2008 the bonds.
estimates have been used in their preparation.
Banks, amounts outstanding would be Condition 6 of the terms and conditions of required to be repaid and the facility In accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and the bonds sets out the conversion rights cancelled.
If no such requirement was Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm to the of the holders of the bonds and the imposed by the Majority Banks, any best of their knowledge that: calculation of the conversion price payable.
dissenting bank could require amounts The conversion price will decrease if a a the financial statements, prepared in outstanding to it to be repaid and cease to Relevant Event occurs.
Condition 6 b x accordance with applicable accounting participate in the facility: sets out the definition of Relevant Event and standards, give a true and fair view of b 150 million Revolving Credit Facility the consequential adjustment to the the assets, liabilities, financial position and Agreement dated 24 November 2005, conversion price.
In summary, a Relevant profit or loss of the Company and the between 3i Holdings plc, the Company and Event occurs if an offer is made to all or as undertakings included in the consolidation Nordea Bank AB publ in relation to the nearly as may be practicable all shareholders taken as a whole: and 66 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders b the Directors report includes a fair review services required to be undertaken by the Appointment of auditors of the development and performance of the auditors, which include regulatory returns, In accordance with section 384 of the business and the position of the Company formalities relating to borrowings, shareholder Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing the and the undertakings included in the and other circulars.
This work is normally reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the consolidation taken as a whole together with allocated directly to the auditors: Companys auditors will be put to members at a description of the principal risks and the forthcoming AGM.
services which it is most efficient for the uncertainties that they face.
In this case, information By order of the Board The Directors of the Company and their relating to the service is largely derived from K J Dunn Company Secretary functions are listed on pages 54 and 55. the Companys audited financial records: for 14 May 2008 example, corporate tax services.
This work is Going concern normally allocated to the auditors subject to Registered Office: 16 Palace Street London SW1E 5JD The Directors are satisfied that the Company consideration of any impact on their and the Group have adequate resources to independence: and continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
services that could be provided by a number For this reason, they continue to adopt the of firms including general consultancy work.
going concern basis for preparing the All significant consultancy projects are financial statements.
normally put out to tender and work would be allocated to the auditors only if it did not Auditors independence and objectivity present a potential threat to the independence Subject to annual appointment by shareholders, of the audit team.
Included in this category is auditor performance is monitored on an ongoing due diligence work relating to the investment basis and formally reviewed every five years, the process.
If this service were to be provided by next review scheduled to be held during the the auditors, the specific team engaged would current financial year.
The Audit and Compliance be independent of the audit team.
Committee reviewed auditor performance during the year and concluded that Ernst & Details of the fees paid to the auditors are Young LLPs appointment as the Companys disclosed in note 6 to the financial statements on auditors should be continued.
The Audit and Compliance Committee Audit information recognises the importance of ensuring the Pursuant to section 234ZA 2 of the independence and objectivity of the Companys Companies Act 1985, each of the Directors auditors.
It reviews the nature and extent of the confirms that: a so far as they are aware, there services provided by them, the level of their fees is no relevant audit information of which the and the element comprising non-audit fees.
Companys auditors are unaware: and b they The Audit and Compliance Committee Chairman have taken all steps they ought to have taken to is notified of all assignments allocated to Ernst & make themselves aware of any relevant audit Young over a set threshold, other than those information and to establish that the Companys related to due diligence within the Groups auditors are aware of such information.
investment process where the team engaged would be independent of the audit team.
Safeguards have been put in place to reduce the likelihood of compromising auditor independence, including the following principles which are applied in respect of services provided by the auditors and other accounting firms and monitored by the Audit and Compliance Committee: Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 67
