Corporate governance report Throughout the year ended 30 September setting of Company goals, objectives, budgets 2008, the Company has been in compliance and other plans.
Comprehensive board papers, with the code provisions set out in section 1 of comprising an agenda and formal reports and the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate briefing papers, are sent to directors in advance Governance the Code.
This report describes of each meeting.
Throughout their period in Aberdeens corporate governance office directors are continually updated, by arrangements, explaining how we have applied means of written and verbal reports from the principles of the Code.
senior executives and external advisers, on the Groups business and the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, The board as well as on legal, environmental, social, The board currently comprises the chairman, governance and other relevant matters.
five non executive directors and three In addition to its formal business, the board executive directors, all of whom served received a number of briefings and throughout the year.
The roles of the presentations from senior executives, local chairman and chief executive are separate, management and external advisers during the clearly defined and have been approved by the year covering a wide range of topics across the board.
The chairman, Charles Irby, is range of the Groups business.
The board also responsible for the effective conduct of the has a policy of making periodic visits to the board and for shareholder relations, whilst the Groups key overseas offices in order to meet chief executive, Martin Gilbert, is responsible local management and clients and to obtain an for the day to day management of the Group.
understanding of the local business The board considers all of the non executive environment.
The board visited the Frankfurt, directors to be independent and has appointed Philadelphia and Singapore offices during Donald Waters as the senior independent the year.
In considering director independence, the board has taken into consideration the All directors have access to independent guidance provided by the Code.
Giles Weaver professional advice, if required, at the joined the board following the acquisition of Companys expense as well as to the advice the Murray Johnstone Group MJ in and services of the company secretary.
Mr Weaver was formerly an directors appointed to the board receive a full, executive director of MJ until December 1999, formal and tailored induction, which includes following which he became chairman of MJ meetings with relevant members of senior until its acquisition.
In addition, Mr Weaver is management, in order to help them gain a a member of the Murray Johnstone Limited detailed understanding of the Group and its Retirement Benefits Plan.
The company secretary, under the interpretation of the guidance in the Code, he direction of the chairman, is responsible for was never an executive of Aberdeen nor of any facilitating this induction programme, ensuring subsidiary while it has been a member of the good information flow between the board, its Aberdeen Group but, in seeking to apply the committees and management and assisting spirit as well as the letter of the Code, the with directors continuing professional board chose not to regard Mr Weaver as development needs.
Directors are also advised, independent until 2004.
A full eight years at the time of their appointment, of the legal having now passed since his appointment, and and other duties and obligations arising from taking into consideration his independence of the role of director of a listed company and character and judgement, the board reiterates are reminded of these duties and obligations its view that Mr Weaver is an independent non on a regular basis.
Directors appointed during executive director.
the year are required to seek election at the first Annual General Meeting following their Biographical details of directors can be found appointment and all directors have submitted on page 33. themselves for re-election by shareholders at The board met eight times during the year to intervals of no more than three years.
Details review financial performance and strategy and of the attendance of individual directors are to follow a formal schedule of matters shown in the table below.
reserved for its decision, which includes the 48 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Maximum possible attendance Meetings attended Charles Irby 8 8 Donald Waters 8 8 Roger Cornick 8 8 Anita Frew 8 8 Sir Malcolm Rifkind 8 8 Giles Weaver 8 8 Martin Gilbert 8 8 Bill Rattray 8 8 Andrew Laing 8 8 each committee are entitled to attend its Performance evaluation meetings but others, such as senior The board has established a formal process, led management and external advisers, may be by the chairman, for the annual evaluation of invited to attend as appropriate.
Current the performance of the board, its appointed membership of the committees is shown in committees and each director, to ensure that the directors biographies on page 33.
The they continue to act effectively and efficiently composition of these committees is reviewed and to fulfil their respective duties, and to annually, taking into consideration the identify any training requirements.
A tailored recommendations of the nominations questionnaire, taking into account committee.
developments over the year and including specific references to the objectives of the board and its committees, was completed by Nominations committee each director.
The responses were analysed The nominations committee is chaired by and the results were subsequently discussed at Charles Irby and he is supported by two meetings of the committees and of the board, independent non executive directors, Sir as well as in individual discussions between the Malcolm Rifkind and Donald Waters.
All served chairman and each director.
Additionally, the on the committee throughout the year.
non executive directors held a meeting without the executive directors present at which The committee is responsible for reviewing the executive directors performance was discussed.
structure, size and composition of the board The non executive directors also met without and for recommending new members for the chairman present to discuss the results of appointment to the board.
The board as a the evaluation of the chairmans performance, whole has responsibility for the appointment having taken into consideration the views of of new directors and for nominating them for the executive directors, and the results of this election by shareholders at the first meeting were subsequently discussed between opportunity following their appointment.
The the senior non executive director and the committee is also responsible for giving due chairman.
consideration to succession planning for the board and other senior executives and for making recommendations to the board.
Board committees During the year the committee reviewed the The board has appointed the following proposals for rotation and re-election of committees to assist in the execution of its directors at the Annual General Meeting: duties.
All of these committees operate on discussed the results of the annual written terms of reference, which are reviewed performance evaluation exercise and noted the annually and which are available on the satisfactory operations of the committee: and Companys website, and the chairman of each reviewed its terms of reference.
The committee reports to each meeting of the committee met on a number of occasions board.
Each of the committees is authorised during the year including two formal meeting to obtain, at the Companys expense, external and details of the attendance of individual legal or other professional advice to assist in members are shown in the table below.
Only the members of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49 Corporate governance report continued Maximum possible attendance Meetings attended Charles Irby 2 2 Donald Waters 2 2 Sir Malcolm Rifkind 2 2 matters of possible impropriety, with suitable Audit committee subsequent follow-up action.
The audit committee is chaired by Donald Waters and he is supported by two During the year the committee discharged its independent non executive directors, Anita responsibilities, under its terms of reference, by: Frew and Giles Weaver.
All served on the a reviewing the Groups draft 2007 financial committee throughout the year.
The board is statements and 2008 interim results satisfied that all of the committees members statement prior to discussion and approval have recent and relevant commercial and by the board and reviewing the external financial knowledge and experience to satisfy auditors detailed reports thereon: the provisions of the Code, by virtue of their having held various executive and non b reviewing the continuing appropriateness of executive roles in investment management and the Groups accounting policies: business management.
Additionally, Donald c reviewing the external auditors plan for the Waters and Giles Weaver are both Chartered audit of the Groups 2008 financial Accountants.
statements, receiving and reviewing The committees role is to assist the board in confirmations of auditor independence and discharging its duties and responsibilities for approving the terms of engagement and financial reporting, internal control and risk proposed fees for the 2008 audit: management, and the appointment and d making recommendations to the board for a remuneration of independent external auditors.
resolution to be put to shareholders to The committee is also responsible for approve the re-appointment of the external reviewing the scope and results of audit work auditors: and its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
e reviewing managements annual report on In order to safeguard the objectivity and the Groups system of internal control and independence of the auditors, the committee its effectiveness, reporting to the board on has approved a comprehensive policy to the results of this review and receiving regulate the provision of non-audit services by regular updates on key risks and controls: the Groups external auditors.
The policy f reviewing the internal audit department provides details of the types of service which terms of reference, its work programme and are and are not permitted and those which regular reports on its work during the year: require the explicit prior approval of the committee.
Permitted non-audit services g receiving reports from the chairman of the include the provision of tax compliance Group risk management committee: services: the provision of certain recruitment h reviewing the committees terms of services: and acting as reporting accountant in reference, carrying out an annual appropriate circumstances, provided there is no performance evaluation exercise and noting element of valuation work involved.
The the satisfactory operation of the committee.
provision of tax advisory services, due The committee receives regular reports from diligence transaction services and litigation the Groups external and internal auditors and services may be permitted with the can, and does, request supplementary reports committees prior approval.
The provision of from management to enable it to fulfil its internal audit services, valuation work and any duties under its terms of reference.
The other activity that may give rise to any committee met four times during the year, possibility of self-review are not permitted with representatives of senior management under any circumstance.
The committee also and KPMG Audit Plc in attendance at each has responsibility for reviewing the Companys meeting.
Details of the attendance of the arrangements on whistle blowing, ensuring individual members of the committee during that appropriate arrangements are in place for the year are shown in the table below.
employees to be able to raise, in confidence, 50 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Maximum possible attendance Meetings attended Donald Waters 4 4 Anita Frew 4 4 Giles Weaver 4 4 responsible for approving the design of all Remuneration committee share incentive plans and for recommending The remuneration committee is chaired by Sir their approval by the board and by Malcolm Rifkind, and he is supported by three shareholders.
The remuneration committee independent non executive directors, Roger held six formal meetings during the year and Cornick, Anita Frew and Giles Weaver.
Anita details of the attendance of the individual Frew was appointed to the committee during members of the committee are shown in the the year.
The role of the committee is to table below.
In addition, and in accordance monitor, review and make recommendations with the requirements of its terms of to the board on the Groups remuneration reference, the members of the committee were policy, as set out in the Report on pages 38 to also consulted on a range of issues during the 47, and to make recommendations to the year, including specific matters related to both board on the remuneration packages of the recruitment and redundancy.
executive directors and other senior employees of the Group.
The committee is also Maximum possible attendance Meetings attended Sir Malcolm Rifkind 6 6 Roger Cornick 6 6 Anita Frew 6 5 Giles Weaver 6 6 regular reports to the board on investor Management board relations and on specific discussions with The operational management of the Group is major shareholders and the board receives delegated by the board to the management copies of all research published on the board which comprises the executive directors Company.
Private investors are encouraged to and other heads of department.
Brief attend the Annual General Meeting at which biographies of its members are provided on they have an opportunity to ask questions.
The management board meets three The Annual General Meeting is normally times each month, has specific terms of attended by all directors, and the chairmen of reference which have been approved by the the audit, nominations and remuneration board and has responsibility for implementing committees are all available to answer the boards strategy.
The senior independent director is always available to shareholders if they have Relationships with shareholders concerns which contact through the normal The Company places great importance on channels of chairman, chief executive or communication with investors and aims to finance director has failed to resolve or for keep shareholders informed by means of which such contact is inappropriate.
The regular communication with institutional Company continues to offer major shareholders, analysts and the financial press shareholders the opportunity to meet any or throughout the year.
Annual and Interim all of the chairman, the senior independent Reports and interim management statements director and any new directors.
The Group will are widely distributed to other parties who continue its policy of announcing the number may have an interest in the Groups of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the performance and these documents are also Annual General Meeting and any other general made available on the Companys website.
chief executive and finance director make Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51 Corporate governance report continued instruments, reflecting the increasing size and Internal control complexity of the Group.
Independent The board has overall responsibility for the oversight of the risks within the strategies Groups system of internal controls and the employed by the various investment teams is management of significant risks.
The Groups provided by the investment risk department.
internal controls are designed to cover all risks The heads of these functions each report to to achieving the Groups objectives including the Group head of risk who, in turn, reports to all business, operational, reputational, financial the chief executive and also attends and and regulatory compliance risks.
The internal reports at meetings of the board.
The head of controls are designed to manage, rather than internal audit, however, primarily reports to the eliminate, the risk of failure to meet the audit committee and has unrestricted access business objectives and to provide reasonable, to the chairman of the audit committee.
but not absolute, assurance against material Further controls lie with the performance misstatement or loss.
The system of internal measurement division which reports on controls is embedded within the day to day investment performance of assets managed by operations of the Group and a strong control the Group to generally accepted industry culture is combined with clear management standards.
The head of this division reports responsibility and accountabilities for directly to the chief investment officer.
A summary of significant risks, key internal The Group risk management committee, controls and findings arising from the risk chaired by the Group head of risk, oversees management framework and the work of the the key risks and controls and the risk monitoring functions is reported by the management process.
Membership of the management board annually in a formal risk committee comprises the executive directors control report to the board.
Identifying, and their senior colleagues plus the heads of evaluating and managing the Groups the various risk functions.
The committee significant risks is an ongoing process which is operates under terms of reference approved by regularly reviewed by the board and has been the board.
The Group operates an automated in place throughout the year to 30 September risk management framework that requires 2008 and up to the date of approval of these management to record and regularly assess the financial statements.
risks and the effectiveness of internal controls and to report their findings to the board.
The risk management framework, which covers all Corporate responsibility material parts of the Group, also provides a As part of the Groups Corporate responsibility continuous improvement process for the CR, the board takes account of the Groups internal controls.
significance of environmental, social and governance ESG matters that are of The Group has separate functions which importance to the Group.
Primary monitor the effectiveness of internal control.
responsibility for these matters rests with The primary control functions sit with the Andrew Laing, the deputy chief executive, Groups risk division, comprising the however reporting to the board will come from compliance, legal, internal audit, business risk a number of sources including the Group risk and investment risk functions.
The compliance division via the Groups automated risk team reviews the effectiveness of controls that management framework.
The board has ensure compliance with regulatory identified and assessed the significant ESG requirements in each jurisdiction in which the risks to the Groups short and long-term value, Group operates while the legal team is as well as the opportunities to enhance value responsible for ensuring that the Group that may arise from an appropriate response.
complies with statutory requirements globally.
The board confirms that it has received The internal audit team reviews the adequate information to make this assessment effectiveness of all controls, either by reviewing and that account is taken of the ESG matters the methods and findings of the other in the induction and training of directors.
The independent monitoring functions, or by board is of the opinion that the Group has in directly auditing the controls operated by place effective systems for managing and management.
Business risk covers operational mitigating significant risks which, where and counterparty risk, with the latter being relevant, incorporate performance particularly focused on derivative markets and 52 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 management systems and appropriate them, via email and the Groups internal remuneration incentives.
As previously stated, noticeboard and that all publicly announced the most important ESG matters of relevance documents are circulated internally to all to the Group are employee retention and employees continues.
The Group is also client relationships.
On both of these issues, committed to following good practice in the board has received specific reports from employment matters, recognising the part this the Executive identifying the risks and the plays in attracting and retaining staff.
issues and have taken steps to ensure that Employees work hard for the stakeholders and they are managed in an appropriate manner.
there is a remuneration strategy that In addition, it is recognised that the Groups recognises both corporate and individual activities do have an impact on the performance, further details of which are environment and in using the results of our contained in the Remuneration report on pages recent environmental audit, the Group remains 38 to 47.
Overall, the Group looks to staff to committed to minimising waste and using learn about the business, systems and energy efficiently, thus aiming to reduce the processes, so as to develop their skills and negative impact of our operations on the knowledge.
One of the Groups values is the environment.
Full details are available on the focus on teamwork where everyone works to Groups website.
the same goals, whilst striving to do better.
The Group believes that the principles of This takes talented and motivated people that transparency, fairness, accountability and put the customer at the heart of the business.
integrity are fundamental to the Groups The Group operates an integrated operations.
under the guidance of the CR management development programme to committee, the Group has established five develop the key competencies needed in the sub-committees focusing on employees, health business and has a challenging graduate and safety, environment management, development programme, which provides the suppliers and social and community activities.
business with a skills and talent pipeline.
There Each sub-committee comprises representatives are currently thirteen graduates on the from different divisions and regions.
These sub graduate development programme, eight of committees are charged with promoting their whom started in September 2008.
The specialist interests and to report on such to graduate development programme provides the board of directors, via the CR committee.
the opportunity to maximise the individuals Further details are available on the Groups experiences in the company, whilst enhancing website.
Through various rotations round the Group, the programme voting aims to give individuals a well-rounded view of the asset management industry and its related The Group has codified and published its policy functions.
Graduates gain experience in a on corporate governance in relation to number of departments, including companies in which it has invested or is performance, internal audit, group marketing, considering investing and on voting at product development, fixed income, equities shareholder meetings of investee companies.
A placement typically lasts three During the year under review, the Group to four months, and gives the graduate an engaged in dialogue with in excess of 60 excellent opportunity to understand the companies to improve our understanding of function of each department and to add their CR issues.
Full details are available on the significant value.
The Group promotes the importance of high ethical standards to all employees and staff Employees have the opportunity to voice any concerns The Group has over 1,900 employees they may have, either direct with management worldwide 1,517 in 2007 and recognises that or on a confidential basis via the whistle their involvement is key to the future success blowing process.
The practice of keeping employees informed on all matters affecting Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 53 Corporate governance report continued Equal opportunities Environment The Group is committed to providing equal The Group continues to promote energy opportunities, both for existing employees and efficiency and the avoidance of waste for new applicants, and seeks to ensure that throughout its operations.
The Group has the workforce reflects, as far as is practicable, again carried out an environmental audit, this the diversity of the many communities in time covering all our main offices worldwide, which the Group operates.
It is the Groups in order to obtain key performance indicator policy to give appropriate consideration to data and to be able to provide comment on applications for employment from disabled the Groups environmental performance.
The persons, having regard to their particular Group remains committed to using energy aptitudes and abilities.
For the purposes of efficiently and minimising waste, thus aiming training, career development and promotion, to reduce the negative impact of our disabled employees, including anyone who operations on the environment.
may become disabled during the course of his or her employment, are treated on equal terms Energy consumption with other employees.
The Group operates a We continue to look closely at our energy use, zero tolerance policy to harassment and recognising that this is one of the most bullying.
Details of the Groups equal significant impacts that our operations have on opportunities policy is available on the the environment.
We have implemented a Company's website and this policy is number of initiatives to conserve energy, supplemented by specific policies that reflect including the use of low energy lighting and local employment legislation and expectations.
implementing a switch off policy and we remain committed to reducing our energy Health and safety usage across all our offices.
Whilst we do not The Group has in place appropriate health and have access to data on energy consumption safety policies which can be accessed by all across all our offices due, primarily, to shared staff via an internal database.
The aim is to occupancy, we have data for our two largest provide both staff and visitors with a safe and uK offices and this is detailed below.
The Group is After the end of the financial year under committed to adhering to the high standards review, 195 staff in Aberdeen relocated to a of health and safety set out by its policies and new purpose built office in the centre of procedures and to provide training as Aberdeen.
Relocating to this new office will necessary.
enable us to benefit from the latest technologies on energy consumption and resource utilisation and we anticipate this will assist in our aim of reducing the Groups energy consumption.
Energy consumption Mwh Water consumption cubic metres 5,000 10 4000 8 Total water consumption LHS Total energy consumption LHS Water consumption per employee RHS Energy consumption per employee RHS 3500 7 4,000 8 3000 6 2500 5 3,000 6 2000 4 2,000 4 1500 3 1000 2 1,000 2 500 1 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2007 2008 54 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 our focus was on specific projects involving Water consumption community groups, the armed forces, We are all conscious of the global need to international development, health and older conserve water and we have established a people.
We were very pleased to have the number of initiatives to encourage this, opportunity to contribute to the recruitment including the use of sensors in taps and of an information and support worker, based in reduced flow mechanisms.
While we do not Aberdeenshire, for people with Parkinson's have access to data on water consumption Disease, their carers and families.
This is a five across all our offices due, primarily, to shared year commitment, which will lead to occupancy, we have data for our two largest significant benefits for those in the area who uK offices and this is noted on page 54. are affected by the illness.
In addition, we We remain committed to reducing water have given our support to Help for Heroes, in consumption, per employee, on an annual recognition of the bravery of the members of basis.
our armed forces, including one former staff member who served in Afghanistan.
Social and community activities Aberdeen's investments stretch across the Since its foundation, Aberdeen has been an globe and our reputation has in part been built active supporter of the communities in which upon our expertise in investing in developing it operates, both in the uK and around the countries.
To reflect this, we have chosen to world.
In our twenty-fifth year, we established assist EveryChild, an international development a new charity sub committee to oversee charity.
EveryChild has an outstanding record donations and over the coming year, the in providing families in developing countries committee will be reviewing the Groups with healthcare, education and support charitable giving policy in addition to through sponsorship programmes and we implementing an employee volunteering continue to support its work with some of the programme.
We operate a payroll giving world's most vulnerable children.
In addition, scheme for staff as well as being able to offer we have also chosen to support the British additional financial support as appropriate to Memorial Garden in New York.
applicants involved in fund-raising endeavours Our sponsorship activities continue to focus on for the charity of their choice.
This sub a limited number of major brand building committee also considers applications from sports sponsorships ranging from golf external sources and over the course of 2008, tournaments and players to yachting and it considered 109 requests, resulting in 100 adventure racing.
Most recently, Aberdeen has donations between 100 and 14,000.
This entered into a two year deal to sponsor was reflected in our support of causes that are Edinburgh Rugby Club.
local to our offices, national in the countries in which we operate and international.
For 2008, Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 55
