3 G O V E R n A n c E & R E M U n E R At I O n Corporate governance The Combined Code on Corporate Governance This report explains key features of the Group's governance structure, how it applies the principles set out in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the 'Code', and the extent to which the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Board complied with the Combined Code in all respects during 2008 except for Code D. 1.1, which requires that the Senior Independent Director should attend meetings with a range of shareholders.
The Company has a comprehensive programme of meetings and dialogue with institutional investors.
The views of investors expressed through this dialogue are communicated to the Board as a whole through the investor relations report.
All Directors can, therefore, develop an understanding of issues or concerns of major shareholders should any be raised.
Feedback from shareholders suggests that these arrangements for communication between the Company and its shareholders continue to be viewed by them as effective.
The Senior Independent Director is always available to meet with individual shareholders on request to ensure the Board is aware of any shareholder concerns that cannot be resolved through the routine mechanisms for investor communications.
The Admiral Group Board The Board is the principal decision making forum for the Group providing leadership either directly or through its Committees of Directors and delegated authority.
It is responsible to shareholders for setting and achieving the Groups strategic objectives and for its financial and operational performance.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it including corporate strategy, approval of budgets and financial results, policies in relation to risk management, health and safety and environmental matters, new Board appointments, proposals for dividend payments, and the approval of major transactions.
This schedule is reviewed on an annual basis and was last reviewed on 17 December 2008.
The Board met on eight occasions in 2008.
The Board also held a strategy day and visited its operations in Italy.
In addition, the Non-executive Directors and the Chairman met during the year without the Executive Directors being present.
Agendas and papers are circulated to the Board in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
These papers are supplemented by information specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
All Directors are, therefore, able to bring independent judgement to bear on issues such as strategy, performance, and resources.
Additional meetings are called when required and there is frequent contact between meetings, where necessary, to progress the Group's business.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for governance matters.
The Company Secretary provides updates to the Board on regulatory and corporate governance issues, new legislation and Directors duties and obligations.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
During the year the Board carried out an evaluation of itself and its Committees.
The process was facilitated by the Chairman and consisted of the completion of a questionnaire followed by one-to-one discussions between each Director and the Chairman where the Boards role and structure, process and relationships and any emerging issues were discussed.
A final detailed report was circulated to the Board and a number of recommendations agreed.
The evaluation concluded that the Board and its Committees performed well during the year and are effective in meeting their objectives and fulfilling their obligations.
