3 8 G O V E R n A n c E & R E M U n E R At I O n Summary of key activities during 2008 During the year the Committee reviewed the following: Annual report and interim results Repor ts from the Groups internal audit department on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management procedures, details of key audit findings and actions taken by management Eff ectiveness of the Groups system of internal control including within its overseas operations Repor ts from the external auditors on their proposed audit scope, fees, audit, and auditor independence P erformance of the internal audit department through self assessment the internal audit department is subject to external assessment once every five years The Groups whistleblowing procedures.
The Committee reviewed its policy on non-audit services that, amongst other things, requires that the Committee approve all proposals for expenditure with the Groups auditors of over 30,000 on non-audit services.
The policy was last reviewed on 19 November 2008.
The Groups auditors, KPMG Audit plc, provide some non-audit services, the majority of which comprise compliance services related to various taxation issues within the Group, and which are not considered by the Committee to compromise their independence as auditors.
The level of nonaudit fees is reviewed twice a year by the Committee and details are included in the Report and Accounts.
The Head of Internal Audit is invited to all Committee meetings and provides a range of presentations and papers to the Committee, through which the Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
Committee members receive copies of all internal audit reports and are given the opportunity to raise questions on the content and recommendations contained within the reports.
The Committee approves the internal audit programme at the start of each calendar year and monitors the progress made in achieving the plan.
During the year, the Committee received a presentation from the Groups auditors on proportionate liability agreements although the Group has not yet entered into any such agreement with its auditors.
The Committee also approves the annual compliance review plan and receives copies of these reports.
The Head of Compliance, who has responsibility for the Compliance and Risk management functions, provides the Committee with a quarterly Compliance report summarising the activities in this area.
The Committee has a policy that provision of external audit services be tendered every five years.
This was last carried out in 2006 when the decision was made to retain the services of the incumbent external auditors.
At the same time the external audit partner was rotated The Nominations Committee The membership at the year-end was Keith James Chairman, Lucy Kellaway, and Alastair Lyons.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee invites the Chief Executive to attend meetings when it deems appropriate.
The Committee has formal terms of reference, which were last reviewed on 17 December 2008 and approved by the Board on 27 February 2009.
The Committee met on two occasions during 2008.
The Committee leads the process for making appointments to the Board or where the appointee is likely to become a Board member.
The Committee ensures there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of Directors.
