Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 3 Board Committees The principal committees of the Board - Audit, Remuneration and Nomination - all comply fully with the requirements of the Combined Code.
They are all chaired by an Independent Director and exclusively comprise, or, in the case of the Nomination Committee where the Chairman of the Board is a member, have a majority of, Independent Directors.
The committees are constituted with appropriate written terms of reference that are reviewed annually and minutes of the committee meetings are circulated to the Board.
The Audit Committee Constitution and membership The membership at the year-end was Martin Jackson Chairman, Keith James, and Margaret Johnson.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Appointments to the Committee are for a period of up to three years, which may be extended for two further three year periods, provided the Director remains independent.
The Committee meets at least three times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
The Committee has a formal terms of reference, which were reviewed by the Committee on 19 November 2008 and approved by the Board on 17 December 2008.
The Board considers that the members of the Committee have the appropriate competence and experience to carry out their duties and further considers that Martin Jackson Committee Chairman has the appropriate recent and relevant financial experience having held the position of Group Finance Director of Friends Provident Plc between 2001 and 2003 and being a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, which imposes requirements for Continuing Professional Development.
The Committee is kept up to date with changes to Accounting Standards, relevant developments in financial reporting, company law and the various regulatory frameworks through presentations from the Groups external auditors, Head of Finance and Company Secretary.
In addition members are provided with information on seminars and conferences provided by external bodies.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee include all the matters suggested by the Code.
Other individuals such as the Finance Director, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Executive, Chairman of the Board, the Heads of Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit and representatives of different parts of the Group may be invited to attend all or part of any meeting as and when appropriate.
The external auditors are invited to attend meetings of the Committee on a regular basis.
