qxp:Layout 1 19 3 09 15:25 Page 44 44 Directors Report Corporate Governance Governance Governance framework BG Group Shareholders Board of Directors Organisation Internal Control Independent and Structure Framework Assurance Sir Robert Wilson Chairman COMBINED CODE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT The Board is committed to the long-term growth of BG Group and As a UK listed company, BG Group is required to state whether believes that there should be no trade off between performance and it has complied with the provisions in Section 1 of the Combined the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Group operates Code throughout the year and, where the provisions have not within a well-established Governance framework designed to been complied with, to provide an explanation.
BG Group is also complement its Business Principles.
required to explain how it has applied the principles in Section 1 This report explains how the Governance framework is structured of the Combined Code.
Those principles relate to the following: and implemented across BG Group and explains how the Group A Directors applied the principles of the UK Financial Reporting Councils FRC The Board Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code Chairman and Chief Executive throughout 2008 see table opposite.
Board balance and independence BG Groups Governance framework is made up of the following elements: Appointments to the Board shareholders, the Board of Directors, the Groups organisation and Information and professional development structure, the Internal Control Framework and Independent Assurance.
Performance evaluation Further details about the Board and the way it operates and the Groups Re-election Internal Control Framework are set out below.
Further details of the B Remuneration Groups organisation and structure are on pages 48 and 49 and details The level and make-up of remuneration of the Independent Assurance are on page 49.
Procedure A Directors C Accountability and audit The Board Financial reporting The Board is responsible to BG Groups shareholders for creating and Internal control delivering sustainable shareholder value through the management of Audit Committee and auditors the Groups businesses within the Governance framework.
The Boards role is to set the Groups strategy and to ensure that appropriate levels D Relations with shareholders of financial and human resources are made available to deliver it.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders As well as oversight responsibility for financial performance, internal Constructive use of the AGM controls and risk management of the Group, the Board has a formal The Directors consider that the Company complied with schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision see page 45. the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code Directors are expected, wherever possible, to attend all Board meetings, throughout the year ended 31 December 2008. relevant committee meetings and the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year and holds additional meetings as and when necessary.
During 2008, the Board met 12 times.
A table detailing the Directors attendance at each of the Companys Board and committee meetings during 2008 is set out on page 47.
In addition to those meetings, the Board focuses on the Groups strategy at an annual two day planning conference.
Within the scheduled meeting programme, the Chairman met with the non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
com DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION BG078 p44-49 vAW1.
qxp:Layout 1 16 3 09 23:31 Page 45 45 Chairman and Chief Executive Matters reserved to the Board The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and their responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and agreed 1 Approval of the Group vision, values and overall by the Board.
This description of the roles and responsibilities of the Governance framework.
Chairman and Chief Executive is also available on BG Groups website.
2 Approval of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, The Chairman, Sir Robert Wilson, is responsible for the workings and Remuneration Report and Quarterly Financial Statements.
leadership of the Board and for the balance of its membership.
The Chief Executive, Frank Chapman, is responsible for leading and 3 Approval of any interim dividend and recommendation managing the business within the authorities delegated by the Board.
Board balance and independence 4 Approval of Group financial policy.
The Board is made up of a non-executive Chairman, three Executive 5 Approval of material capital projects, investments, Directors including the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial acquisitions and disposals by any Group company.
Officer and seven independent non-executive Directors.
A list of the individual Directors, their biographies and details of their 6 Approval of the Companys long-term finance plan committee membership are provided on pages 40 and 41. and annual capital and revenue budget.
The non-executive Directors provide experience and skills from 7 Approval of any significant change in Group accounting a number of private sector and government backgrounds.
are key to the formulation and development of the Groups 8 Approval of all circulars, listing particulars, resolutions strategy and also to reviewing and monitoring the performance and corresponding documentation sent to shareholders.
of management, the integrity of financial information, and internal controls and risk management.
9 Approval of changes in the capital structure of the Company or its status as a plc and, in particular, the issue or allotment Paul Collins, a non-executive Director since October 2000, was the of shares in the Company otherwise than pursuant to Senior Independent Director until his retirement on 31 December 2008.
Baroness Hogg was nominated by the Board as Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 January 2009 and is available to shareholders 10 Approval of material changes to the Companys pension as an alternative point of contact to the Chairman, Chief Executive and schemes rules, any change of Trustee, or material changes Chief Financial Officer.
The role of the Senior Independent Director is to funding and management arrangements.
clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
This 11 Appointment, re-appointment and removal of the description of the role is published on BG Groups website.
The Senior Chairman and Directors and the recommendation Independent Director is expected to commit at least three to four days to shareholders of their election or re-election under per year to the role, and significantly more in exceptional circumstances.
the Articles of Association: the appointment and removal This is in addition to the expected time commitment in her capacity as of the Company Secretary.
12 Approval of the division of responsibilities between the The Combined Code includes provisions for a companys board Chairman and Chief Executive.
to assess the independence of each non-executive director.
This 13 Establishing Committees of the Board, approving their terms assessment was applied prior to the appointment of Sir David Manning to the Board during 2008.
The Nominations Committee of reference including membership and financial authority, reviewing their activities and, where appropriate, ratifying reviewed the proposed appointment and determined that he was independent at the time of his appointment.
14 Recommendation to shareholders for the appointment, The Board undertakes an annual review of the independence of re-appointment or removal of the Auditors.
its non-executive Directors in accordance with the criteria set out in the Combined Code.
Following this review in 2008, the Board 15 Approval of this schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
has concluded that each of the non-executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, is independent.
External selection consultants are retained At the time of his original appointment, on 1 January 2004, to conduct searches.
the Chairman was also considered independent by the Board.
However, in accordance with the Combined Code, the ongoing The Nominations Committee reviews the profiles of the candidates test of independence for the Chairman is not appropriate.
and interviews are carried out.
The Committee then makes its recommendations to the Board for approval.
Sir John Coles, who retired with effect from 30 September 2008, had served on the Board for ten years, but was considered by the Information and professional development Board to retain independence of character and judgment.
Guidelines are in place concerning the content, timeliness and presentation of Board and committee papers from management Appointments to the Board to ensure that the Board is properly briefed.
The Board has developed a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the selection and recruitment of Directors.
Following All Directors appointed to the Board receive a full induction a review of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the briefing tailored to their individual needs, taking into account Board, the Nominations Committee determines the selection criteria their qualifications and experience.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BG078 p44-49 vAW1.
qxp:Layout 1 16 3 09 23:31 Page 46 46 Directors Report Corporate Governance Governance continued Ongoing professional development is provided to Directors to meet concluded that the performance of these Directors is effective and their particular requirements.
Directors received regular briefings that they have demonstrated, and continue to demonstrate, during 2008 on key relevant and topical issues, including changes commitment to the role.
in law and regulation, corporate governance, financial reporting B Remuneration and operational matters.
The level and make-up of remuneration and the procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration The Company Secretary, Keith Hubber, is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Details of levels and make-up of remuneration, service contracts and compensation, and the procedure for developing policy on Directors have full access to the advice and services of the Company executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages Secretary, who is also responsible to the Board for: ensuring that correct of individual Directors, are set out in the Remuneration report on Board procedures are followed: ensuring effective communication ows pages 54 to 63. within the Board and its committees, and between senior management and non-executive Directors: and facilitating induction and assisting C Accountability and audit with the professional development of Directors.
The Company Secretary Financial reporting acts as Secretary to the Board and each of its committees other than A statement of the Directors responsibilities for reporting the the Audit Committee and to the Group Executive Committee GEC.
Financial Statements, including a statement regarding the status The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for of the Company as a going concern, is set out on page 53. the Board as a whole.
Internal control Any Director may take independent professional advice at the BG Groups Internal Control Framework ICF defines the way in which Companys expense if he or she believes it may be required in the Group operates.
It comprises the Groups Business Principles, furtherance of his or her duties.
policies, processes, standards and guidelines.
Within these, a series of core controls has been identified which contribute to the Performance evaluation identification or mitigation of one or more Group risks.
The Board is An evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and committees, the individual Directors and the Chairman, was it oversees the review, compliance and assurance processes that have conducted during the year.
The Board and committee evaluations been designed to ensure there is an effective control environment.
were facilitated by the Chairman and the chairmen of the Board The Boards role is undertaken in accordance with the guidance Committees, and comprised a written questionnaire and a series set out in the Combined Code and as set out in the Committee of one-to-one interviews with Board and committee members.
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO The interviews covered a number of key areas including strategy, framework, which was adopted by the Audit Committee as best succession planning, Board size and composition, risk management practice.
The COSO framework provides reasonable, rather than and the relationship between the Board and management.
The absolute, assurance against material loss or misstatement and is results of the reviews were then considered by the Chairman designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure and Senior Independent Director and subsequently discussed to achieve business objectives.
collectively by the Board as a whole.
The Board has established processes designed to allow it to assess the The performance of individual non-executive Directors was evaluated effectiveness of the internal control environment within the Group.
by the Chairman, with input from the committee chairmen and the Each year, the GEC and the Company Secretary provide Letters of Executive Directors.
The evaluation of the Chairman was led by Paul Assurance LoA to the Chief Executive in relation to the control Collins, the outgoing Senior Independent Director, and involved environment in their areas of responsibility.
These LoAs are supported individual meetings with each of the Executive Directors, followed by the results of the Governance Self Assessment GSA process which by a group review with the non-executive Directors, excluding the requires the management level reporting to the GEC and the Company Chairman.
The performance of the Chief Executive was evaluated by Secretary to assess the effectiveness of the core controls within their the Chairman and non-executive Directors.
The performance of the areas of responsibilities and to report any significant deficiencies or Chief Financial Officer was evaluated by the Chief Executive in material weaknesses.
consultation with the Chairman and other non-executive Directors.
The Governance & Risk Committee reviews the LoAs and the results The Directors have concluded that, following this evaluation, the Board of the GSA process and assesses the effectiveness of the disclosure and its committees operate effectively and also consider that each controls and procedures which have been established to ensure the Director is contributing effectively and demonstrates commitment timely and accurate release of information required to be disclosed to to the role.
markets, and a report on these is presented to the Audit Committee.
Re-election The Audit Committee has reviewed with management, the external All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM auditors and Group Audit this report together with other reports following their appointment by the Board.
Thereafter, in accordance from management in relation to internal control and assurance, with the Combined Code and the Companys Articles of Association, risk management, fraud risk management and whistleblowing and, they are subject to re-election every three years.
Based on these based on its review, has reported to the Board on the effectiveness criteria, the Nominations Committee has made recommendations to of BG Groups ICF in 2008. the Board in respect of the election of Sir David Manning and Martin Houston, and the re-election of Sir Robert Wilson, Frank Chapman, Taking into account the processes that have been designed and Ashley Almanza and Jrgen Dormann at the 2009 AGM.
The Board implemented for 2008, the Board has concluded that the Groups has considered and endorsed these recommendations and has system of internal controls was effective as at 31 December 2008. www.
qxp:Layout 1 16 3 09 23:31 Page 47 47 2008 Board and committee members attendance Group Chairmans Audit Remuneration Sustainability Nominations Finance Executive Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 12 17 5 4 4 2 5 14 Sir Robert Wilson 12 17 3 4 2 5 Frank Chapman 12 17 4 4 12 Ashley Almanza 12 17 5 12 Peter Backhouse 12 5 4 a Sir John Coles 9 3 b Paul Collins 11 5 4 2 Jrgen Dormann 11 3 4 Baroness Hogg 12 5 4 2 Dr John Hood 12 4 3 c Sir David Manning 5 Lord Sharman 10 5 Philippe Varin 11 5 4 a Sir John Coles retired from the Board and Sustainability Committee on 30 September 2008. b Paul Collins retired from the Board, Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees on 31 December 2008. c Sir David Manning joined the Board on 1 July 2008.
He became a member of the Sustainability Committee on 1 November 2008.
Audit Committee and auditors requests, receives and reviews reports from management on actions The members of the Audit Committee are Lord Sharman Committee taken to address risk areas identified by management and or the internal audit process: Chairman, Peter Backhouse, Baroness Hogg, Dr John Hood and reviews with management, and external and internal auditors, the Philippe Varin.
Paul Collins served as a member of the Committee significant risk exposures and the processes established to identify, until his retirement from the Board on 31 December 2008.
The monitor, control and report them: Secretary to the Committee is Alan McCulloch, Deputy Company annually reviews a control process or the control environment Secretary.
All members of the Committee are deemed to be within a specific asset: independent and the Committee has concluded that its membership annually evaluates, on behalf of the Board, the design and meets the requirements of the Combined Code.
The Board has effectiveness of the internal control structure, the Groups financial determined that Lord Sharman, a chartered accountant, has recent reporting procedures and the Groups disclosure controls and and relevant financial experience as required by the Combined Code.
procedures: and The meetings of the Committee are also normally attended by the annually evaluates the design and effectiveness of the processes Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, established to estimate, aggregate and report the Groups various the Head of Group Audit and representatives of the external auditors.
categories of oil and gas reserves.
In addition, the Committee meets privately with the external auditors D Relations with shareholders at least twice each year.
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling Dialogue with institutional shareholders its responsibilities in respect of: The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an ongoing overseeing the Groups financial reporting process, including the relationship with the Companys shareholders based on frequent internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting dialogue.
Regular meetings with institutional shareholders are held with the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer and, where and monitoring the integrity and appropriateness of the Groups appropriate, the Chairman.
This ensures that the investor community Financial Statements: receives a balanced and comprehensive view of the Groups the manner in which the Groups management ensures and performance and the issues it faces.
In addition, the Board regularly monitors the adequacy of financial, operational and compliance monitors the views of shareholders and considers reports from its internal controls and business risk management processes investor relations advisers concerning institutional shareholder designed to manage significant risk exposures: feedback.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors including the the appointment, compensation, independence and performance Senior Independent Director are also given the opportunity to meet of the Groups external auditors: and institutional shareholders and to discuss topical issues.
The Company, the independence and performance of Group Audit.
through its Investor Relations team, responds to a variety of enquiries Specifically, the Audit Committee: from shareholders and an email communication facility is available on the Groups website for this purpose.
regularly reviews the external and internal audit work plans: oversees and reviews the procedures for the receipt, retention Constructive use of the AGM and treatment of complaints relating to financial matters, internal The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain accounting controls and auditing, and the Groups whistleblowing aspects of BG Groups business.
It is also an opportunity for those policy named Speak Up : shareholders who are able to attend to ask questions of the Board BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BG078 p44-49 vAW1.
qxp:Layout 1 16 3 09 23:31 Page 48 48 Directors Report Corporate Governance Governance continued of Directors, including the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, are normally attended by the Chief Executive.
The role of the Sustainability formerly Corporate Responsibility and Nominations Committee is to review the structure and composition of the Board, Committees, and the Company Secretary.
The Notice of AGM, which to identify candidates to fill Board vacancies, including their election includes full details of this years AGM, is set out on pages 127 to 133. and subsequent re-election by shareholders, and to review its own performance on an annual basis.
ORGANISATION AND STRUCTURE The Groups organisation and structure is established and overseen As referred to above, the Committee recommended to the Board the by the Board and is designed to allow for effective and efficient appointments of Sir David Manning and Martin Houston, following decision-making and to meet Corporate Governance standards.
an evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
A diagram illustrating the BG Group Board Committee structure During the year, the Committees terms of reference were amended is set out on page 49.
The Board has delegated authority to its by the Board in response to the introduction of the provisions in committees on specific matters, which are set out in written terms the Companies Act 2006 in relation to the Directors duty to avoid of reference.
The membership of each of the Board Committees is conicts of interest.
The amended terms of reference authorise detailed below and on pages 40 and 41 and the terms of reference the Committee to review matters where a Director other than of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are the Chairman has a conict or potential conict with the interests reviewed annually by the Board and published on BG Groups website, of the Company and to make recommendations to the Board on together with the terms of reference for the other Board Committees.
whether or not such a conict should be authorised and on what Copies of these terms of reference are also available from the terms.
Further details on the procedures in place to deal with Company Secretary upon request.
Minutes of the meetings of Board potential conicts of interest can be found on page 52.
Committees are circulated to all Directors.
Chairmans Committee Reserves Committee The members of the Chairmans Committee are Sir Robert Wilson The Reserves Committee is chaired by the Executive Vice President Committee Chairman, Frank Chapman and Ashley Almanza.
The and Managing Director, BG Advance and includes technical, financial role of the Chairmans Committee is to advise and assist the Chairman and legal specialists.
The Committee reviews the reserves process in the preparation for Board meetings.
The Committee also acts on and approves any amendments to the reserves policy, process or behalf of the Board between scheduled meetings, within clearly guidelines.
It regularly reviews and challenges the Group reserves defined delegated authority.
estimates and, on an annual basis, reports to the Audit Committee on the reserves process.
Finance Committee The members of the Finance Committee are Sir Robert Wilson Sustainability formerly Corporate Responsibility Committee Committee Chairman, Frank Chapman and Ashley Almanza.
The The members of the Sustainability Committee are Dr John Hood Committee is responsible for finance and treasury policy decisions.
Committee Chairman, Sir Robert Wilson, Frank Chapman, Peter Backhouse, Jrgen Dormann and Sir David Manning who joined Group Executive Committee GEC the Committee on 1 November 2008.
Sir John Coles retired from the The members of the GEC are set out on pages 42 and 43.
The Committee on 30 September 2008 and Dr John Hood was appointed Committee has primary authority for the day-to-day management Chairman in his place.
of the Groups operations, within agreed limits set by the Board.
The GEC has delegated its authority to a series of eight sub-committees The purpose of the Committee is to provide direction to and oversight of which focus on particular aspects of the Groups business.
Those the implementation of BG Groups Business Principles, the Companys sub-committees are: statement of core values and behaviours.
The Committees main areas of focus are safety and asset integrity, social performance including Portfolio Development Committee PDC community relations and social investment, the environment and The PDC is chaired by the Chief Executive and its other members ethical conduct.
The Committee also maintains an overview of policies are drawn from senior management specialising in strategy and relating to occupational health and physical and personnel security.
The main purpose of the Committee is to oversee the Meetings are normally attended by the Executive Vice President, Policy delivery of the Groups strategy through the prioritisation of projects and Corporate Affairs.
and business development opportunities and to approve pre-sanction funding for midstream and downstream projects.
Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are Baroness Hogg Exploration & Appraisal Committee EAC Committee Chairman, Jrgen Dormann, Philippe Varin and Sir The EAC is chaired by the Chief Executive and its other members Robert Wilson.
Paul Collins served as a member of the Committee are drawn from senior management specialising in exploration until his retirement from the Board on 31 December 2008.
The main purpose of the Committee is to formulate Committee is responsible for setting, reviewing and recommending the Groups exploration and appraisal strategy and plan and to set to the Board for approval BG Groups overall remuneration policy objectives and priorities to deliver that strategy.
In addition, the and strategy.
Full details are set out in the Remuneration report Committee approves funding for exploration and appraisal.
Investment Committee IC Nominations Committee The IC is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and its other members The members of the Nominations Committee are Sir Robert Wilson are drawn from the GEC.
The main purpose of the Committee is to Committee Chairman, Baroness Hogg and Lord Sharman from approve merger, acquisition and disposal transactions and to approve 1 January 2009.
Paul Collins served as a member of the Committee other investment decisions except exploration, appraisal and business until his retirement from the Board on 31 December 2008.
qxp:Layout 1 16 3 09 23:31 Page 49 49 BG Group Board and committee structure BG GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT SUSTAINABILITY REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS CHAIRMANS FINANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP RESERVES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Portfolio Development HSSE Committee Committee Exploration & Appraisal People & Organisation Committee Committee Governance & Risk Investment Committee Committee Group Performance Energy Trading & Credit Risk Committee Committee Group Performance Committee GPC which provide the framework for effective risk management of energy The GPC is chaired by the Executive Vice President and Managing trading activities.
In addition, the Committee provides assurance to the Director, BG Advance and its other members are drawn from the GEC that there is an effective framework for the management of price GEC.
The main purpose of the Committee is to review performance in and credit risks associated with oil, gas and LNG trading, commodity post-sanction projects and assets and drive long-term performance.
price hedging and credit risks outside of the trading business.
Health, Safety, Security & Environment Committee HSSEC INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE The HSSEC is chaired by the Chief Executive and its other members are The final element of BG Groups Governance framework is independent drawn from the GEC and senior management.
The main purpose of the assurance, which is provided primarily by Group Audit, the independent Committee is to set the strategic direction for BG Groups HSSE activities external auditors and other external advisers.
Group Audit provides and monitor HSSE performance.
assurance to the Board, Audit Committee, GEC and management that effective and efficient internal control processes are in place to identify People & Organisation Committee POC and manage business risk across the Group.
In particular, Group Audit: The POC is chaired by the Chief Executive and its other members are drawn from the GEC and senior management.
The main purpose of provides an independent assessment of the Groups system of risk management and internal control: the Committee is to endorse the human resources strategy and agenda and ensure these are aligned with the business strategy.
assists management by carrying out independent appraisals of the effectiveness of the internal control environment and making Governance & Risk Committee GRC recommendations for improvement: and The GRC is chaired by the Executive Vice President, Policy and Corporate supports development of the Groups governance and business Affairs and its other members are drawn from the GEC and senior risk management policies.
The main purpose of the Committee is to oversee the effectiveness of BG Groups governance, risk management and The independent external auditors report to shareholders and their assurance processes: to approve corporate policies relating to core audit opinion on the applicable section of the Financial Statements are set out on page 64. controls: and to review and monitor compliance with BG Groups Business Principles.
The external reserves consultant, Degolyer & MacNaughton, provides independent assurance on reserves, using its own Energy Trading & Credit Risk Committee ETCRC The ETCRC is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and its other estimation methodology, through a rolling programme of reviews members are drawn from senior management specialising in commodity which covers a percentage of the reserves portfolio each year.
trading, credit and financial risk.
The main purpose of the Committee is to approve the Group-level risk management principles and policies BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
