42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 36 36 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Governance Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Directors Nomination Committee Lesley Knox, Alan Harden and Clare Salmon Hugh Bolland, Katherine Garrett-Cox and Christopher Masters John Hylands and David Deards Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 37 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 37 John Hylands BSc Non-Executive Directors Joined the board 22 February 2008: Lesley Knox MA Chairman Chairman of the Audit Committee Joined the board 2001: appointed Chairman 2004: John Hylands 56 graduated with a BSc in Mathematics from Chairman of the Nomination Committee Glasgow University.
He joined Standard Life in 1979 and Lesley Knox 54 graduated with an MA in law from Cambridge, qualified as an actuary in 1982.
His career at Standard Life qualified as a lawyer and worked in the UK and US.
spanned 28 years and included various actuarial, finance and Subsequently she worked as a corporate finance adviser, first management positions including serving as Finance Director with Kleinwort Benson where in 1996 she became a group from 2001 to 2005. director, and was then a founder director of British Linen He is a member of the Norwich Union With Profits Committee Advisers.
She was also Head of Institutional Asset Management and is a Non-Executive Director of the Board of Ecclesiastical at Kleinwort Benson Investment Management which provided Insurance Group PLC.
He also chairs the Pension Fund Trustees of investment services to clients worldwide.
Other directorships include Hays PLC, HMV Group PLC and Signet Group PLC.
She is a Governor of the Museum of London.
Executive Directors Christopher Masters CBE FRSE BSc PhD AKC Alan Harden Chief Executive Joined the board 2002: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Joined the Company as Chief Executive designate 2003: Christopher Masters 60 took his doctorate in chemistry at Leeds appointed Chief Executive 2004 University and worked for Shell in both the UK and the Alan Harden 50 started his career in the investment industry in Netherlands.
He joined Christian Salvesen as business the UK in 1978, moving to Europe in 1980 and then on to Cyprus development manager in 1979, becoming Director of Planning two years later.
From 1984 to 1990 he was with Wardley for its US operation and Chief Executive from 1989 to 1997.
He Investment Services part of HSBC group and relocated to Dubai was then appointed Executive Chairman of Aggreko PLC, a post in 1985.
In 1988 he moved to Hong Kong as a Senior Investment he held until January 2002.
He is currently Chairman of Sagentia Manager.
In 1990 he joined Standard Chartered Bank as Managing AG and also chairs the Festival City Theatres Trust.
He is the Director of Scimitar Asset Management based in Singapore.
In 1994 he became Global Head of Investment Services.
In 2000 Other directorships include British Assets Trust PLC, The Crown he moved to Citigroup Asset Management in Japan, as Managing Agents Foundation and John Wood Group PLC.
Director and Head of the Asset Management business in the AsiaPacific region and a member of the Global Executive Committee.
Clare Salmon MA Alan Harden is a director of the Scottish Community Foundation, Joined the board 2005 a member of the Court of St Andrews University and an Clare Salmon 44 graduated with an MA in English from Honourary Professor of the School of Accounting and Finance at Cambridge.
In 1987 she joined Boston Consulting Group as a the University of Dundee.
management consultant, working in London and Madrid.
She gained considerable experience in financial services and was David Deards BA Hons ACA Finance Director Consumer Marketing Director for the Prudential before joining Avis Europe as Group Marketing Director.
After a brief spell at Joined the Company and the board 2003 Transacsys PLC she joined Centrica PLC, becoming Managing David Deards 48 graduated with a BA Hons in Zoology at Director of AA Financial Services before joining the commercial Oxford and qualified as a chartered accountant with Arthur television network ITV as Marketing Director in 2005.
She left Young now Ernst & Young before joining Ansbacher & Co in ITV in January 2007 and has been appointed Group Strategy, 1987, where he gained considerable experience in corporate Marketing and Customer Director of Royal and Sun Alliance finance and banking and investment product development, and Insurance Group.
She is also a member of the Management Board of The Marketing Society and a trustee of Breast Cancer Campaign.
Katherine Garrett-Cox BA Hons Chief Investment Officer Hugh Bolland BA Hons Joined the Company and the board 1 May 2007 Joined the board 1 July 2007 Katherine Garrett-Cox 40 graduated with a BA Hons in Hugh Bolland 61 graduated with a BA Hons in Economics and History at Durham University.
Her early career was spent in US Statistics from Exeter University.
In 1968 he became an Fund Management with Fidelity Investments and UNI economist with the Bank of New South Wales in Australia.
In Storebrand before moving to Hill Samuel Asset Management as 1970, he joined Schroder Investment Management in London.
In 1982, he was appointed Investment Director and then Managing their Investment Director, Head of American Equities.
Director of Schroders in Hong Kong and later Chief Executive of In 2000 she joined Aberdeen Asset Management becoming an Schroders Australia.
After returning to the UK he became Executive Director in 2001 and Chief Executive of their operating Chairman of Schroder Unit Trusts, the Chief Executive and subsidiary Aberdeen Asset Management Limited.
latterly Vice Chairman of Schroder Investment Management.
He In 2004 she became Chief Investment Officer for Morley Fund retired from Schroders in 2000.
Management and a Board Director of a number of their He is a Non-Executive Director of JP Morgan Indian Investment subsidiary companies with specific responsibility for fund Trust PLC, Fidelity Asian Values PLC and Dutch listed management teams in London, Dublin and Boston.
Eurocommercial Properties N. V. Katherine Garrett-Cox is a trustee of The Baring Foundation.
42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 38 38 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principles of the Combined Governance Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2006.
In the course of the year we have complied with the Code other than with regard to the requirement for at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be independent, which we did not meet during the short period between 24 May 2007, when William Jack retired at our Annual General Meeting, and 1 July 2007, when Hugh Bollands previously announced appointment took effect.
The Company is an investment company and has sought approval from HM Revenue and Customs to maintain its status as an investment trust, the last such approval being in respect of the year ended 31 January 2007.
As an investment company we have regard to the AIC Code of Corporate Governance dated February 2006 with which we have also complied.
The Board During the year, with the exception of the period between 24 May and 1 July 2007, the Board comprised four independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
In the course of the year the Board composition changed with the retiral of William Jack on 24 May 2007, the appointment of Hugh Bolland on 1 July 2007 and the appointment of Katherine Garrett-Cox, our Chief Investment Officer on 1 May 2007.
After the end of our financial year a new Non-Executive Director John Hylands was appointed on 22 February 2008 and Gordon McQueen resigned with effect from 31 March 2008.
Janet Pope also resigned on 5 March 2008.
A brief summary of the experience of the Directors can be found on page 37.
The newly appointed Directors are available to meet with shareholders on request.
The Board sets the Companys objectives and business plans, establishes an effective framework of prudent controls to enable risk within the business to be managed, provides leadership, and reviews the performance of the business.
The Board reserves certain decisions to itself and delegates others Ian Anderson, Company Secretarial.
to committees or to the Executive Directors and management.
The areas the Board has reserved include: approval of investment strategy and policy decisions on new subsidiary businesses, joint ventures and other The Company is committed to the arrangements principles of the Combined Code on approval of treasury policies, banking counterparties and Corporate Governance.
counterparty exposure limits approval of Group borrowing limits and the maximum amounts and nature of new bank borrowing facilities major contracts approval of the asset classes in which any Group company may invest approval of the derivative instruments which any Group company may use approval of material changes to gearing and the percentage mix of asset allocation by class and geography major changes in employment and remuneration structures political and charitable donations any material litigation or civil proceedings Through the matters reserved to the Board the powers of individual directors are restricted to the extent necessary to ensure good governance.
Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 39 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 39 Each year, the Board agrees an annual Board Meeting programme to ensure that all aspects of the performance of the Company and its management are reviewed.
The following appear as regular Board items: Investment Report Asset Allocation Papers Portfolio Summary Sheets Trading volume, discount and share buybacks Financial Performance Internal Audit and Risk Compliance Investor Relations This year, as well as the normal matters of corporate governance and good management, the following were discussed: Strategy two day offsite including a Board meeting.
Discussions included consideration of the future structure and direction of the business and its continued strategy of seeking improved shareholder value through growing our financial subsidiaries Board dynamics the Board used an external facilitator to carry out a review of how the Board performed as a team and Royston Armstrong and Caron Quinn, Internal Audit.
how each individual director contributed, as part of the annual Board performance evaluation Investments as well as the asset allocation, attribution and investment performance reports that the Board receives at each meeting the Board allocates a significant amount of time to reviewing the performance of the investment managers.
During the year detailed reviews of the North American, AsiaPacific and private equity portfolios were undertaken Financial services business the Board receives regular updates from the Chief Executive of its financial services subsidiary, Alliance Trust Savings, against a series of key performance indicators 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 40 40 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts The Chairman Audit Committee The Chairman is Lesley Knox and her role is clearly established The members during the year were: and set out in writing to ensure that her responsibilities are Gordon McQueen until 31 March 2008, Chairman distinguished from those of the Chief Executive.
William Jack until 24 May 2007 Christopher Masters Senior Independent Director Hugh Bolland from 1 July 2007 Following the retirement of William Jack, this position is held by John Hylands Christopher Masters.
The Senior Independent Director is from 22 February 2008, Chairman from 1 April 2008. available to shareholders in the event that it is inappropriate to The Board are satisfied that both Gordon McQueen and John raise matters with the Chief Executive or Chairman and to lead Hylands have recent and relevant financial experience.
the review of the Chairmans performance with the other NonThe work of the Committee during the year is explained in the Executive Directors.
Accountability and Audit section of the report on page 44.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee The Company is committed to maintaining a strong The members during the year were: representation of independent non-executives on the Board.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be Christopher Masters, Chairman independent.
William Jack until 24 May 2007 Hugh Bolland from 1 July 2007 The Non-Executive Directors met as a group twice during the Gordon McQueen until 31 March 2008 year.
On one of these occasions, the principal purpose was to Clare Salmon discuss management succession planning.
In the course of the John Hylands from 22 February 2008 year the Non-Executive Directors also met without the Chairman present to review her performance.
The role of this Committee is to determine the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Chairman and to monitor and Executive Directors recommend the level and structure of remuneration for other senior management.
The Committee appointed consultants, the Alan Harden is the Chief Executive and has overall control and Hay Group, in October 2006 and they have advised throughout responsibility for delivering the objectives agreed by the Board.
The work of the Committee during the year is David Deards is the Finance Director and is also responsible for explained in the Remuneration report on pages 46 to 53. the Audit, Risk and Compliance functions within the business.
Janet Pope was responsible for business strategy as well as the Nomination Committee performance of Alliance Trust Savings.
These responsibilities have been assumed by Alan Harden.
Katherine Garrett-Cox is The members during the year were: responsible for investment of the Companys assets and its asset Lesley Knox, Chairman management subsidiaries.
William Jack until 24 May 2007 The Executive Directors may also serve on the Boards of Christopher Masters subsidiary companies in the Group.
Gordon McQueen until 31 March 2008 Hugh Bolland from 21 September 2007 Company Secretary Clare Salmon from 21 September 2007 The Company Secretary, Donald McPherson, is responsible for Alan Harden advising the Board on matters of corporate governance and John Hylands from 22 February 2008 legal compliance.
The Directors always have access to the The Committee is responsible for ensuring that there is planned Company Secretary for information and assistance as required.
succession, so far as possible, at Board level and for ensuring the proper composition of the Board is maintained Board Committees In the course of this year the Committee considered the There are various committees to assist decision making and appointment of two new Non-Executive Directors.
The three committees reporting to the In both cases external search consultants were used.
They were Board are: given specific requirements as to skills and experience in Hugh Bollands case, a proven track record in investment management Audit Committee both in the UK and overseas, and in John Hylands case a Nomination Committee background in financial services and experience of the Remuneration Committee regulatory environment.
The committees are provided with all necessary resources.
Minutes of each of these committees are circulated to all of the Directors.
Copies of the Terms of Reference of the Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting and are available on the Company website.
Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 41 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 41 Other Committees Various other committees have been established which include Executive Directors and other senior managers.
The following are the major executive committees.
All have terms of reference and are attended by the Company Secretary or his nominee to ensure good governance is followed and decisions properly recorded: Asset Liability and Income Committee ALICo The purpose of this committee is to manage the capital of the Company within the investment and asset allocation strategies and risk parameters agreed with the Board.
The Committee, which meets on a monthly basis, comprises the Chief Investment Officer, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, and other members nominated by the Chief Executive.
In the course of the year significant decisions taken by this committee were: to recommend the adoption by the Board of a policy on the use of derivatives to recommend a decrease in our Japanese exposure and an increase in our private equity weighting to borrow to fund investments Chief Executives Group CEG The purpose of this committee is to assist the Chief Executive in the exercise of his responsibilities.
CEG comprises the Executive Directors and Rowland Strickland, the Chief Operating Officer.
CEG assists in the formulation of strategy for the Company and provides an additional level of monitoring on business performance.
In the course of the year significant issues considered by this committee were: high level direction of the budget reforecast process the annual salary review and bonus allocation for non-Board employees oversight of major projects including transfer of pensions back office to Dundee and the Fit for Growth project Risk Management Committee This committee comprises the Finance Director and senior managers who oversee and review the control, monitoring and reporting framework and related procedures for risk management.
It is responsible for ensuring that there is an effective risk management framework and culture embedded in the business.
In the course of the year significant actions taken by this committee were: monitoring disaster recovery business continuity testing reviewing policy on risk appetite before approval by the Board monitoring progress on ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process adoption by Alliance Trust Savings Authorisation Committee This committee, comprising the Executive Directors and other senior managers, considers and approves changes to signing authorities, approval of banking arrangements, appointment of brokers and approval of other administrative arrangements.
42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 42 42 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Board and Committee evaluation Directors and Officers Indemnification The Board is committed to undertaking annual reviews of its The Company provides insurance maximum payable 22 million own performance, and also the performance of its committees in aggregate for legal action brought against its directors as a and individual directors.
On most occasions this is undertaken as consequence of their position.
In addition, separate deeds of an internal exercise, with the use of external facilitation on a indemnity have been agreed with each individual director periodic basis.
indemnifying them as permitted by company law.
The indemnity and insurance does not extend to cover claims brought by the In 2007, the evaluation of the Board and individual Directors was Company itself which are upheld by the Courts, nor to criminal undertaken by use of individual personality profiles which fines or penalties.
allowed the Board to consider the contribution of each Director to the activities of the Board and its decision-making process.
Director Development This identified areas for improvement in Board papers and presentations, contact between Board meetings and Each new Director undertakes an induction programme, taking engagement between the Non-Executive Directors and into account their own knowledge and experience, including management below Board level.
separate meetings with all of the senior management team and information on the Company and its policies and internal The performance of the main Board committees was evaluated processes.
The Directors are also provided with training, as by way of questionnaires.
The Board and each of the committees appropriate, on the role and responsibilities of a director of a was considered to be functioning effectively.
The Senior Independent Director led the evaluation of the On an ongoing basis updates on corporate governance issues Chairmans performance, which was the subject of discussion at and business issues impacting on the Company are provided.
a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors following completion In particular the changes to directors duties as a result of the by them of questionnaires which were devised to assess her Companies Act 2006 were brought to the attention of performance against a series of key attributes for a chairman.
Board and Committee Attendance External Non-Executive appointments The Board held nine scheduled meetings during the year.
Details The Board believes that it benefits the Company that Executive of attendance are set out below.
Directors have exposure to other organisations in a nonexecutive capacity provided that their commitment to the Appointment as a Director Company is undiluted.
The Company policy for such All directors are subject to election by the shareholders appointments incorporates a number of safeguards to ensure at the first annual general meeting after their appointment.
All payments received in respect of such non At the 2008 AGM, Hugh Bolland and John Hylands will be executive appointments may be retained by the Executive subject to election having been appointed during the year.
Details of such appointments and remuneration are The process of selection is covered in more detail in the section found on page 52. headed Nomination Committee on page 40.
In addition, each director is subject to re-election every three years and Lesley Access to advice Knox falls to be re-elected at this meeting.
In respect of Lesley All Directors have access to independent professional advice Knox, her suitability for re-election was considered and endorsed if necessary.
by the Nomination Committee having regard to her individual performance.
Number of meetings attended in the year BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION Director Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Lesley Knox 9 9 2 2 Alan Harden 9 9 1 2 David Deards 9 9 William Jack 2 3 1 2 2 3 1 Christopher Masters 9 9 4 4 6 6 2 2 Gordon McQueen 9 9 4 4 6 6 2 2 Clare Salmon 8 9 5 6 1 Janet Pope 9 9 Hugh Bolland 3 4 1 2 1 2 1 1 Katherine Garrett-Cox 6 6 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 43 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 43 Director Shareholdings All Directors are required to hold 3,000 shares in the Company as a condition of their appointment and all Directors hold at least that number.
Full details of Directors shareholdings can be found on page 53.
Major Shareholders Holdings The table below shows the shareholders that have notified us that they hold more than 3% of our issued share capital or have notified us that they hold more than 3% of the voting rights of ordinary shares in issue with voting rights of the Company.
Ordinary shares as at 16 April 2008 Alliance Trust Savings Nominees Limited 134,325,302 DC Thomson & Company Limited and John Leng & Company Limited 46,900,000 Legal and General Group PLC 27,155,896 Deutsche Bank AG 20,159,242 Payment of Creditors Our policy and practice is to pay creditors in accordance with the terms agreed.
At 31 January 2008 the Company had no trade creditors.
The Companys subsidiary undertaking, Alliance Trust Finance, which purchased most of the goods and services for the Group and recharged them to the appropriate entity, had trade creditors outstanding at 31 January 2008 representing three days of purchases.
Relationship with Shareholders Malcom Dodds, Ann Wilson and Robert MacDonald, The Directors attend the AGM where they have the opportunity Investment Trust Services.
Meetings also take place throughout the year with major and institutional shareholders, such meetings normally being attended by the Chairman or Chief Executive.
In addition to these meetings, fora are held where individual shareholders are invited to meet directors and senior managers.
Invitations to attend are also sent to individuals who hold their shares in the Company through Alliance Trust Savings.
Those investors have the opportunity to instruct how they want their votes cast or to attend the AGM as a proxy.
A comprehensive website is also available to those with online access.
Alliance Trust Savings publishes a regular magazine providing information on developments through the year in a more informal context Investor and a publication providing information of more general interest to investors in investment trusts Taking Stock.
Share Capital and Waiver of Dividends The Companys issued share capital as at 31 January 2008 comprises 671,909,760 Ordinary 2.5p shares of which 1,108,624 were acquired by the Trustee of an Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee with funds provided by the Company in connection with its employee share plans.
The Trustee has elected to waive all dividends payable in respect of those shares.
Each Ordinary share of the Company is entitled to one vote but the Trustee cannot vote in respect of those shares.
There are no preference shares and there are no shares held in treasury.
42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 44 44 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a Agreements in Respect of Voting Rights true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair The Company has reached an agreement with Alliance Trust presentation.
Savings whereby its clients shareholdings in the Company will In preparing each of the group and parent company financial be voted at the AGM in their entirety in the proportions of statements, the Directors are required to: those clients who give instructions to vote, or abstain, on all resolutions put to the AGM.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Share Buy Back Authority make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and At the last AGM the shareholders renewed the authority prudent: originally approved at the EGM held on 10 May 2006, for the state whether they have been prepared in accordance with repurchase of up to 14.99% of the issued shares.
This authority IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and falls to be renewed at the next AGM.
In the course of the year prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis the Company did not make use of this provision.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
Annual General Meeting The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting In addition to formal business, the Chief Executive will comment records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the on business developments and there will be the opportunity for financial position of the parent company and enable them to questions to be raised with the other Directors.
This year there ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies will be proposals to amend the Companys Articles of Association Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps in response to changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006. as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Details of the business of the meeting are set out in the Notice group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Compliance with Combined Code Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Provision The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity At least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise of the corporate and financial information included on the non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the independent.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Company Position differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Company complied with this provision until 24 May 2007 Audit Committee when William Jack retired.
The Company complied again when Hugh Bolland was appointed on 1 July 2007.
In addition to reviewing and recommending to the Board the financial statements of the Company, the Audit Committees Explanation main role is to review changes in the business which require The period of non compliance was due to the retirement of a consequent changes to the financial controls or the system of Non-Executive Director before the new Non-Executive Director internal control review and report to the Board on the integrity was able to take up the appointment.
The Board is satisfied that and effectiveness of it maintained a sufficient degree of integrity and independence i the accounting and financial controls of the Company and all during this period to properly meet its obligations under the its subsidiaries: Combined Code.
ii the system of risk management and internal controls of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
Accountability and Audit The Finance Director and Head of Internal Audit will normally Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the attend.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive may attend by Annual Report and the financial statements invitation and the external auditors shall normally attend when audited financial statements they have audited or reviewed are The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report to be approved or when requested.
and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Committee also reviews and reports to the Board on compliance with the requirements of relevant legislation or Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and regulation and the relationship of any group company with any parent company financial statements for each financial year.
appropriate regulatory body supervising or regulating its business.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and In the course of the year the Committee considered, reviewed, applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company approved or recommended to the Board the approval of the financial statements on the same basis.
Interim and Annual Financial Statements of the Company, internal and external audit plans, the going concern basis of the The group and parent company financial statements are business, the performance and independence of the Auditor, the required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly status of the Companys disaster recovery plan and the groups the financial position of the group and the parent company and whistleblowing policy.
The Committee recommends the draft the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 accounts to the Board for approval.
provides in relation to such financial statements that references Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 45 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 45 Risk Management The Board, supported by the Audit Committees review, is responsible for all aspects of risk within the business.
The Company has an extensive risk framework identifying and quantifying all major risks and the risk appetite of the Company has been considered and agreed.
Management is responsible for managing and, where possible and appropriate, reducing risks on an ongoing basis.
The success of management in achieving this is measured through an executive risk management committee and is monitored by the Audit Committee.
Internal Control The Board confirms that in the course of the year a review of the effectiveness of the groups systems of controls was carried out and was found to be effective.
The Company maintains a separate internal audit function which includes a specialist IT auditor.
Risk Management oversight rests with the Internal Audit function and as such, is subject to external third party assessment.
There is a rolling programme of internal audits based on assessment of risk with the ability to introduce unplanned audits as circumstances dictate.
This year particular attention was paid to client identification and related matters within the operating subsidiaries.
Disclosure of Information to Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps they Linsey Glass, Research Centre.
ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor Independence The external auditor is appointed by the shareholders annually and its performance is reviewed and monitored by the Audit Committee.
The Company undertakes periodic tender exercises.
The Company last held such an exercise in 2004.
Generally the Company has a policy of not using the firm engaged for audit work for any significant additional professional services.
In the course of this year our auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, provided advice in relation to accounting matters, the total fees for which did loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the not exceed 30,000 in the year.
consolidation taken as a whole: and KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to continue the Directors report includes a fair review of the development in office as auditor and a resolution proposing their and performance of the business and the position of the re-appointment will be submitted at the AGM.
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal Report of Directors and Responsibility Statement risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Report of the Directors, comprising the statements and reports on pages 10 to 35 together with the Directors, Directors shareholdings, major shareholdings, political and charitable donations, payment of creditors and disclosure of information to auditors sections of the Governance section on pages 36 to 45 of this Annual Report and Accounts has been approved by the Board.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Lesley Knox Alan Harden applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair Chairman Chief Executive view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 21 April 2008
