Corporate governance report Section 1 of the June 2006 Financial Reporting Council FRC also says that half the Board excluding the Chairman should Combined Code on Corporate Governance the 2006 Code, consist of independent directors.
which supersedes the 2003 Code, applies to listed companies Jon Moulton is not an independent director as he is a with reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2006. substantial shareholder and has served as a director of the The Company has adopted the principles of the 2006 Code company since February 1999.
The effect of this is that the since its admission to listing on the London Stock Exchange on Group did not comply during the year with the 2006 Code 17 October 2006 Admission.
requirement that at least half of the Board are independent The Company has been in compliance with the 2006 Code directors excluding the Chairman.
During the year the Board since that date, except where the directors consider that instigated a formal search process with the objective of making in particular limited circumstances departure is justified.
an additional appointment of an independent director with Such departures are fully explained below.
relevant experience in order to bring the company into compliance with the Code which resulted in the appointment of This report describes the Companys corporate governance Jonathan Asquith on 1 September 2008.
Upon the retirement of arrangements, explaining how it has applied the principles of Jon Moulton on 30 October 2008 the Company will be in the 2006 Code.
Directors Biographical details of the directors are given on page 24.
The Board of directors comprises two executive directors and During the year under review the Board met six times to four non-executive directors.
The two executive directors are review financial performance and strategy and to follow the Mark Coombs the Chief Executive Officer, and Graeme Dell formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
The non-executive directors are Comprehensive Board papers, comprising an agenda and Michael Benson, Chairman, Nick Land, the Senior formal reports and briefing papers are sent to directors in Independent Director, Jon Moulton, and Jonathan Asquith.
Throughout their period in office Michael Benson, Mark Coombs Nick Land and Jon Moulton directors are continually updated, by means of written and served as directors throughout the year.
Jim Pettigrew verbal reports from senior executives and external advisers, submitted his resignation which became effective on on the Groups business and the competitive and regulatory 31 October 2007.
He was replaced by Graeme Dell, who was environments in which it operates, as well as on legal, appointed to the Board on 19 December 2007.
Additionally corporate governance, corporate social responsibility and Jonathan Asquith joined the Board on 1 September as a nonother relevant matters.
Jon Moulton will retire from the Board at the In addition to its formal business, the Board received a annual general meeting on 30th October 2008. number of briefings and presentations from executive The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to management during the year covering a wide range of topics it for decision and approval, which include but are not limited to: across the range of the Groups business.
All directors have access to independent professional advice, if required, at the the Groups long-term commercial objectives and strategy: Companys expense as well as to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
New directors appointed to the major acquisitions, disposals and investments: Board will receive advice as to the legal and other duties and obligations arising from the role of a director of a UK listed the Groups annual and interim reports and financial company within a full, formal and tailored induction statements: programme.
The Company Secretary, under the direction of interim dividend and recommendation of final dividend: the Chairman, is responsible for maintaining an adequate continuing education programme, reminding the directors of annual budgets and forecast updates: their duties and obligations on a regular basis, ensuring good information flow between the Board, its committees and significant capital expenditure: and management and assisting with directors continuing professional development needs.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are The Companys nominations committee considers the appointment and replacement of directors subject to the rules separate, clearly defined and have been approved by the set out in the Articles, a summary of which is set out below.
The Chairman is responsible for the effective conduct of the Board, while the Chief Executive Officer is responsible Under the Articles, the minimum number of directors shall be for execution of strategy and for the day-to-day management two and the maximum shall be nine.
Directors may be of the Group.
appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the In considering non-executive director independence, the Board.
A director appointed by the Board must offer himself Board has taken into consideration the guidance provided by for election at the next annual general meeting of the the 2006 Code.
The Board considers Michael Benson, Nick Company following his appointment but he is not taken into Land and Jonathan Asquith to be independent.
Nick Land is account in determining the directors or the number of the senior independent director.
3.2 Combined Code directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
In line 28 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 with the requirements of the 2006 Code, a minimum of oneBoard committees third of the directors must retire by rotation at every annual The Board has appointed audit, remuneration and general meeting of the Company.
The directors to retire must nominations committees to assist in the execution of its be those who held office at the time of the two preceding duties: annual general meetings and did not retire at either of them.
All of these committees operate on written terms of reference, The office of director shall be vacated in other circumstances, which are reviewed annually and were updated by the Board including where i that director resigns or is asked to resign: in August 2008.
The chairman of each committee reports ii he is or has been suffering from mental ill health: iii he is regularly to the Board.
absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months: iv he becomes bankrupt Each of the committees is authorised, at the Companys or compounds with his creditors generally: or v he is prohibited expense, to obtain external legal or other professional advice by law from being a director.
to assist in carrying out its duties.
Only the members of each committee are entitled to attend its meetings but others, such Powers of the directors as senior management and external advisers, may be invited Subject to the Companys memorandum of association, the to attend as appropriate.
Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by the Current membership of the committees is shown in the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company relevant sections below.
The composition of these committees is managed by the Board, who may exercise all powers of the is reviewed annually, taking into consideration the Company, whether relating to the management of the business recommendations of the nominations committee.
Jon Moulton of the Company or not.
will step down from all Board committees on his retirement from the Board on 30th October 2008.
Performance evaluation The Board has established a formal process, led by the Audit committee Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the The audit committee comprises four non-executive directors.
Board, its appointed committees and each director, to ensure Nick Land is Chairman with Michael Benson, Jon Moulton and that they continue to act effectively and efficiently and to fulfil Jonathan Asquith as members.
Nick Land, Michael Benson their respective duties, and to identify any training and Jon Moulton served on the committee throughout the year.
Jonathan Asquith joined the audit committee on his Meetings were held between the Chairman and each appointment to the Board on 1 September 2008. individual director in which issues and developments over the The Board is satisfied that Nick Land, Jon Moulton and year were discussed and performance was considered by Jonathan Asquith have recent and relevant commercial and reference to the objectives of the Board and its committees.
financial knowledge and experience to satisfy the provisions The responses were collated by the Company Secretary and of the 2006 Code.
Nick Land and Jon Moulton are both the results and issues raised were subsequently discussed by chartered accountants and Jonathan Asquith has previously the Board.
The Board also evaluated the Chairmans served as Chief Financial Officer of Schroders plc and performance.
Board and committee attendance As Jon Moulton is not an independent director as referred to The table below sets out the number of pre-scheduled above, the Group did not comply during the year with the 2006 meetings of the Board and its committees and individual Code requirement that the audit committee should consist of at attendance by current directors.
least three independent non-executive directors.
Nominations Audit Remuneration Board committee committee committee Total number of meetings between 1 July 2007 and 30 June 2008 6 4 25 Michael Benson 100% 100% 100% 100% Mark Coombs 100% 1 Graeme Dell 100% Nick Land 100% 100% 100% 100% Jon Moulton 100% 100% 100% 100% Notes 1 Graeme Dell was appointed to the Board on 19 December 2007 and attendance is calculated from this date.
ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 29 Corporate governance report continued A report on the activities of the committee is set out on page The number of committee meetings and their attendance 30.
The terms of reference for the committee take into account by the directors are set out in the table on page 29. the requirements of the Combined Code 2006 and are Representatives of KPMG Audit Plc the Chief Executive Officer available for inspection at the registered office, at the annual and the Group Finance Director attend each meeting as a general meeting and can also be found on the company matter of practice and presentations are made by the website at www.
The terms of reference for executive management as required.
the committee include: Remuneration committee monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the The remuneration committee comprises three non-executive Company, any formal announcements relating to the directors.
Jon Moulton is Chairman with Michael Benson and Companys financial performance and any significant Nick Land as members.
All have served on the committee financial issues and judgements contained in them: throughout the year.
reviewing the Groups draft annual financial statements and As Jon Moulton is not an independent director as referred to interim results statement prior to discussion and approval above, the Group did not comply during the year under review by the Board and reviewing the external auditors detailed with the 2006 Code requirement that the remuneration reports thereon: committee should consist of at least three independent nonexecutive directors.
reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups financial statements, receiving and reviewing A report on the activities of the committee is included in the confirmations of auditor independence and approving the Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 39.
The terms of terms of engagement and proposed fees for the audit: reference for the committee take into account the requirements of the Combined Code 2006 and are available for inspection making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be at the registered office, at the annual general meeting and put to shareholders to approve the re-appointment of the can also be found on the company website at external auditors: www.
reviewing the level and amount of external auditor non audit services: The terms of reference for the committee include: reviewing managements annual report on the Groups reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of system of internal control and its effectiveness, reporting to the remuneration policy: the Board on the results of this review and receiving reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for updates on key risk controls: approval by the board and shareholders: considering whether the Group should have an internal ensuring that members of the executive management of audit department, recommending to the Board whether this the company are provided with appropriate incentives to is appropriate and to give the reasons for the absence of encourage enhanced performance: such a function: and making recommendations to the Board as to the reviewing the committees terms of reference, carrying out Companys framework or broad policy for the remuneration an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the of the Chairman, the executive directors and the Company satisfactory operation of the committee.
Secretary and to determine their total individual The committee has requested and received reports from remuneration packages including bonuses, incentive management to enable it to fulfil its duties under its terms of payments and share options or other share awards: reference.
ensuring that a significant proportion of executive directors The audit committee also has responsibility for reviewing the remuneration is structured so as to link rewards to Companys arrangements on whistle-blowing, ensuring that corporate and individual performance: and, appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any able to raise, in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, payments made, are fair to the individual, and the company, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss The committee has the authority to seek any information it is fully recognised.
requires to perform its duties from any employee of the Company and to obtain outside legal or other independent Details of the activities of the remuneration committee are set professional advice as appropriate.
out in the remuneration report on pages 35 to 39.
30 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 The number of committee meetings and their attendance by Annual and interim reports and trading updates are widely the directors are set out in the table on page 29.
In addition, distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the and in accordance with its requirements under the terms of Groups performance.
These documents are also made reference, the members of the committee were also consulted available on the Companys website where formal Regulatory on a range of issues during the year, including specific matters Information Service announcements are also posted.
Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director make regular reports to the Board on investor relations and on Nominations committee specific discussions with major shareholders and the Board The nominations committee comprises three non-executive receives copies of all research published on the Company.
Michael Benson is Chairman with Nick Land and The 2008 annual general meeting will be attended by all Jon Moulton as members.
All have served on the committee directors, and the chairmen of the audit, nominations and throughout the year.
remuneration committees will be available to answer questions.
Private investors are encouraged to attend the annual general The terms of reference for the committee take into account the meeting.
requirements of the Combined Code 2006 and are available for inspection at the registered office, at the annual general The senior independent director is available to shareholders if meeting and can also be found on the company website at they have concerns, if contact through the normal channels of www.
The terms of reference for the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director committee include: has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
reviewing the structure, size and composition including the The Company continues to offer major shareholders the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and its opportunity to meet any or all of the Chairman, the senior committees: independent director and any new directors.
The Group will announce via a regulatory information service reviewing annually the time required from each nonthe number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the annual executive director, using performance evaluation to assess general meeting and any other general meetings.
whether the non-executive director is giving sufficient commitment to the role: Internal control giving full consideration to succession planning in the Within the Groups over-arching corporate governance course of its work, taking into account the challenges and framework, an internal control framework has been opportunities facing the Company and what skills and established, against which the company is able to assess the expertise are needed on the Board in the future: and effectiveness of its system of internal controls.
In accordance with the principles of the 2006 Code, the Board is ultimately ensuring that on appointment to the Board, non-executive responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out reviewing its effectiveness.
clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside The internal control framework provides an ongoing process board meetings.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, and has been in place for the year under During the year the activities of the committee have included review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and the engagement of external recruitment consultants for the accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board, and purposes of reviewing the names of potential independent accords with the guidance in the document Internal Control: non-executive candidates for appointment to the Board, Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, proposals for rotation and re-election of directors at the annual October 2005 Turnbull Guidance published by the Financial general meeting, discussing the results of the annual Reporting Council.
performance evaluation exercise and noting the satisfactory operations of the committee, and reviewing its terms of The systems and their review are designed to manage rather reference.
The number of committee meetings and their than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, attendance by the directors are set out in the table on page 29. and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Relations with shareholders The Company places great importance on communication with The Groups system of internal control is embedded within its investors and aims to keep shareholders informed by means the routine operations of the Group, and a strong control of regular communication with institutional shareholders, culture is combined with clear management responsibility analysts and the financial press throughout the year.
and accountabilities for individual control.
On a day to day ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 31 Corporate governance report continued basis, the executive directors oversee the key risks and secure information and communication systems capable of controls and the risk management process.
The Groups Risk capturing relevant and up to date information by relevant and Compliance Committee, comprising senior management personnel: members, which meets at least monthly, is responsible strong financial controls for accurate accounting for for maintaining a sound internal control environment and transactions, appropriate authorisation limits to contain for assessing the impact of the Groups ongoing activities on exposures, and to ensure reliability of data processing and its regulatory and operational exposures.
Responsibility integrity of information generated: for risk identification is shared amongst senior management personnel, with each individual manager being an in-depth annual budget is reviewed and approved by the responsible for day-to-day control of risk in their business Board and is regularly subject to update through a formal area.
re-forecasting process: The Board through the Audit Committee has conducted an Board members receive monthly management accounts annual review and assessment of the effectiveness of the which highlight actual financial performance against internal control system, which covers all significant identified budget forecast and prior year period: internal and external operational, financial, compliance and a detailed investment report is prepared and discussed at other risks, including the Groups ability to comply with all the weekly meetings of the Groups investment committee applicable laws, regulations and clients requirements.
with following actions agreed and implemented within a strict operational framework: In conducting the review of the effectiveness of internal control, the Audit Committee has considered the periodic oversight of the valuation methodologies used for clients reports received throughout the year on internal control, fund investments that cannot be readily externally priced is compliance and risk matters, and an annual report on internal the responsibility of the Groups Pricing Methodology control processes from the Risk and Compliance Committee.
Committee PMC which meets monthly to review the The overall assessment of the control framework is satisfactory, current valuation methodology for each of these acknowledging that there are specific areas for improvement investments and to propose an updated valuation where action plans are now in place.
methodology where appropriate: No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during the Groups compliance function, which has responsibility this review, but should such issues arise in future, appropriate for ensuring that the Group at all times meets its regulatory remedial action would be taken.
obligations, monitors client mandate risk on a real-time basis facilitated by technology: The main features of the Groups internal control system are as follows: the compliance function also undertakes an ongoing compliance monitoring programme of all the relevant a defined operational framework and organisational areas of the Groups operations, including a quarterly structure with appropriate delegation of authority with senior management systems and controls review which accountability that has regard to acceptable levels of risk: is undertaken with the Group Finance Director, and in a matrix of principal risks identifies key business, which the Chief Executive Officer participates at least operational, financial and compliance risks, including annually: consideration of the likelihood of those risks crystallising the Group commissions regular independent review reports and the resultant impact.
The inherent risk within each prepared pursuant to the Statement of Auditing Standards business activity has been identified, with the adequacy No.
70, type II SAS 70 : and and mitigating effect of existing processes being assessed to determine a current residual risk level for each such the Board, through the Audit Committee, receives half-yearly activity.
On the basis that further mitigants may be updates from the Groups external auditors which include employed over time, a target residual risk for each activity any control matters that have come to their attention.
after one or to two years has been defined: The Group does not currently have an internal audit function key risk indicator KRI statistics are reported to and and in this respect is not in compliance with the 2006 Code.
analysed by the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The The Board believes that given the current size, nature and KRIs indicate trends in the groups risk profile, assist in the business and operational model of the Group, the relevant reduction of errors and potential financial losses and seek assurances are more effectively obtained via the internal to prevent exposure by proactively dealing with a potential control framework described herein and by the commissioning risk situation before an event actually occurs: of the regular SAS 70 reports.
32 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 The internal control environment will continue to be monitored The policies and practices in place within the Group to deter and reviewed by the Risk and Compliance Committee, and acts of harassment and discrimination are regularly monitored.
status reports provided periodically to the Board.
It is the Groups policy that no employee shall be treated less Improvements, where necessary, will be implemented.
favourably on the grounds of their sex, sexual orientation, race, religion, nationality, marital status or on the grounds of Corporate social responsibility disability.
This policy applies, without limitation, to promotion, The Group recognises the importance of Corporate Social training, placement, transfer, dismissal, remuneration, Responsibility CSR incorporating transparency, fairness, grievance and disciplinary procedures and decisions.
This accountability and integrity and believes that these principles policy also applies to persons from outside the workplace and are fundamental to the Groups operations.
The Group the treatment of contract workers.
continues to monitor developments in all relevant areas of The Group seeks to ensure that the workforce reflects, as far CSR, including environmental management, employees, health as is practicable, the diversity of the many communities in and safety, suppliers and the community to ensure that it meets which it operates, and this is reflected in the wide-ranging best practice.
The Ashmore Foundation Health and safety Consistent with the Groups commitment to responsible The Group has in place a global health and safety policy which corporate citizenship The Ashmore Foundation was can be accessed by all staff via an internal database.
The aim created last year and funded by bonus sacrifices from of this policy is to provide both staff and visitors with a safe certain employees of the Group.
It is registered with the and healthy working environment.
The Group is committed to Charities Commission and aims in general to provide financial adhering to the high standards of health and safety set out by grants to worthwhile causes within the emerging markets its policies and procedures and to providing training as in which the Group operates, principally focused on health and necessary.
Environment Employees As an investment manager, Ashmore has a limited direct The Group recognises that the involvement of its employees is impact upon the environment and there are few environmental key to the future success of the business and adopts a risks associated with the Groups activities.
Nevertheless, as practice of keeping employees informed on significant matters part of its ongoing commitment to the environment, Ashmore affecting them, via email and in meetings arranged for the throughout its operations, has adopted policies and purpose.
The Group has consistently operated a remuneration programmes to promote energy conservation and the strategy that recognises both corporate and individual avoidance of waste through a number of initiatives, such as the performance.
recycling of paper, glass and other waste and the use of green energy.
The Group is also committed to following good practice in employment matters, recognising the part this plays in attracting and retaining staff.
The Group promotes the importance of high ethical standards to all employees and staff have the opportunity to voice any concerns they may have, either direct with management or on a confidential basis via the whistleblowing process.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to ensuring that all employees are By order of the board treated fairly and with dignity and respect.
This commitment is reflected in the Staff Handbook that all employees receive Michael Perman on joining.
Company Secretary ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 33
