Aviva plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate governance report The Board has adopted a procedure whereby directors may, in the The Combined Code on Corporate Governance performance of their duties, seek independent professional advice at The Combined Code on Corporate Governance sets out guidance the Companys expense if considered appropriate.
During the year in the form of principles and provisions on how companies should the members of the Remuneration Committee sought independent be directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
advice from New Bridge Street Consultants on a review of senior The Financial Services Authority requires companies listed in the UK executive remuneration.
to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
Where the provisions The Directors have not been complied with companies must provide an The Board currently comprises the Chairman, seven independent explanation for this.
non-executive directors, one non-independent non-executive director and three executive directors.
Each non-executive director serves for It is the Boards view that the Company has been fully compliant a fixed term not exceeding three years that may be renewed by throughout the accounting period with the provisions set down in mutual agreement.
Subject to the Board being satisfied with a Section 1 of the Combined Code, apart from a period of 29 days in directors performance, independence and commitment, there is no 2008 when the majority of the members of the Nomination specified limit regarding the number of terms a director may serve.
Committee were not independent non-executive directors.
Each director is required to be elected by shareholders at the Annual This report sets out details of how the Company has applied the General Meeting following his her appointment by the Board and to principles and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code be re-elected at least once every three years.
Further information on the Combined Code can be director who has served on the Board for nine years or more is found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
uk required to submit himself herself for re-election annually.
The Boards policy is to appoint and retain non-executive directors The Board who can apply their wider knowledge and experiences to their The directors are responsible to shareholders for ensuring that understanding of the Aviva Group, and to review and refresh the Company is appropriately managed and that it achieves its regularly the skills and experience the Board requires through a objectives.
It meets regularly to determine the Companys strategic programme of rotational retirement.
In addition to the strengths of direction, to review the Companys operating and financial experience, diversity and an international perspective, the Board also performance and to provide oversight that the Company is seeks to comply with the requirements of the Combined Code on adequately resourced and effectively controlled.
The specific duties the independence of directors.
The process for appointing new of the Board are clearly set out in its terms of reference that address directors is conducted by the Nomination Committee whose report, a wide range of corporate governance issues and list those items including a description of its duties, is set out on page 95. that are specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Matters The Combined Code requires that at least half the Board, excluding requiring Board approval include: the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors as determined by the Board.
The Nomination Committee performs Group strategy and business plans: an annual review of directors interests in which all potential or Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside delegated perceived conflicts, including time commitments, length of service limits: and other issues relevant to their independence, are considered.
Financial reporting and controls: It is the Boards view that an independent non-executive director also needs to be able to present an objective, rigorous and constructive Capital structure: challenge to management, drawing on his her wider experiences to Dividend policy: question assumptions and viewpoints and where necessary defend their beliefs.
To be effective, an independent director needs to Shareholder documentation: acquire a sound understanding of the industry and the Company The constitution of Board committees: and so as to be able to evaluate properly the information provided.
Key business policies, including the remuneration policy.
Having considered the matter carefully the Board is of the opinion that all of the current non-executive directors are independent and The full terms of reference for the Board are available from the free from any relationship or circumstances that could affect, or Group Company Secretary.
Matters that are not specifically reserved appear to affect, their independent judgement, except Wim Dik due for the Board and its committees under its terms of reference, or for to his length of service as a non-executive director of the Company.
shareholders in general meeting, are delegated to the Group Chief Accordingly, over half of the directors, excluding the Chairman, are Executive.
The Boards terms of reference also set out those matters independent non-executive directors.
Each of the directors being that must be reported to the Board, such as significant litigation or proposed for re-election at the 2009 Annual General Meeting has material regulatory breaches, and cover how matters requiring been subject to a formal performance evaluation and took part in a consideration by the Board that arise between scheduled meetings peer evaluation review during 2008.
Details of the Directors standing should be dealt with.
for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Wim Dik will retire at this years Annual The Board and its committees operate in line with work plans agreed General Meeting.
Biographical details of all the directors are set out prior to the start of each year.
At Board and committee meetings, on pages 84 and 85. directors receive regular reports on the Groups financial position, risk management, regulatory compliance, key business operations and other material issues.
Directors are fully briefed in advance of Board and committee meetings on all matters to be discussed.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for following Board procedures and advising the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
All directors have access to his advice and services.
Governance 82 119 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 91 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information The Chairman and Group Chief Executive Training and development The respective roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are The Board believes strongly in the development of all its employees set out in the Boards terms of reference.
The Chairmans priority is and directors and it is a requirement of each directors appointment the leadership of the Board and the Group Chief Executives priority that they commit to continue their development.
The form that this is the management of the Company.
The Chairmans commitment development takes is subject to individual directors requirements to the Company is two to three days per week and his main and the quality and relevance of the training available.
interests outside the Company are set out in his biographical details During the year, directors attended a number of courses ranging on page 84.
During the year the Chairman retired as the chairman from external seminars for members of the Audit and Remuneration and from the board of Aegis plc.
Committees and internal seminars on market risk.
In addition, members of the Audit and the Risk and Regulatory Committees Senior Independent Director received tailored training sessions.
Training sessions have also been built into the Boards and committees work plans for 2009.
The Under the Combined Code the Board appoints one of the Board made visits to the Groups businesses located in the United non-executive directors to act as Senior Independent Director.
Kingdom and Europe during the year to gain a closer understanding The main responsibility of the Senior Independent Director is to be of their operations.
available to shareholders should they have concerns that they have been unable to resolve through normal channels, or when such The Board has a comprehensive induction programme consisting channels would be inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director is of several separate sessions which take place over a number of also responsible for leading the Boards discussion on the Chairmans months at times convenient for the director.
The sessions include performance and the appointment of a new chairman, when presentations from key members of senior management, visits to the appropriate.
Wim Dik served as the Senior Independent Director Groups main operating businesses, and meetings with the external from 2004 to December 2008 and was succeeded in January 2009 auditor and one of the Companys corporate brokers.
Further or by Richard Goeltz.
follow-up meetings are arranged where a director requires a deeper understanding on a particular item.
Board effectiveness The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group Directors attendance and the Company undertakes a rigorous evaluation each year in The Company requires directors to attend all meetings of the order to assess how well the Board, its committees, the directors Board and the committees on which they serve and to devote and the Chairman are performing.
The aim is to improve the sufficient time to the Company in order to perform their duties.
effectiveness of the Board and its committees and the Groups The attendance of the directors at the Board and committee performance.
The process is led by the Chairman and supported by meetings held in 2008 was as follows: the Group Company Secretary.
This year the evaluation was carried out by Boardroom Review, an independent consultancy, and Board and Board committee attendance 2008 interviews were conducted with each Board member.
All directors also completed a questionnaire evaluating the Board and Corporate Social Risk and committees processes, their effectiveness and where improvements Audit Responsibility Nomination Regulatory Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee may be considered.
Boardroom Review prepared a report based on Number of meetings held 12 7 4 2 5 9 the interviews with the directors and the questionnaire circulated Nikesh Arora 10 1# 4 and the overall results of the evaluation were presented to and Mary Francis 12 6 5 9 reviewed by the Board in January 2009.
Richard Goeltz 12 7 1# 9 The performance of the Chairman is also included in the above Euleen Goh appointed 1 January 2009 n a n a n a n a n a n a process and takes into account the views of both the executive and Mark Hodges non-executive directors.
The Chairmans evaluation is managed by appointed 26 June 2008 7 the Senior Independent Director who provides feedback to the Andrew Moss 11 3 2 Chairman.
As part of the Chairmans evaluation the non-executive Carole Piwnica 12 6 3 9 directors meet separately under the chairmanship of the Senior Philip Scott 11 Independent Director.
Lord Sharman 12 3 2 Russell Walls 11 6 2 5 The Board evaluation process assesses the executive directors in their Scott Wheway 11 4 9 capacities as directors of the Company.
They are evaluated in respect Wim Dik of their executive duties through a separate process whereby the will retire on 29 April 2009 9 3 1 5 Chairman and the non-executive directors assess the Group Chief Former directors Executive and the Group Chief Executive assesses the executive Guillermo fide la Dehesa directors.
retired 31 December 2008 10 3 1 Indicates not a member of that committee.
Following this comprehensive review, the directors have concluded Ceased to be a member of the Nomination Committee on 29 July 2008. that the Board and its committees operate effectively and agreed # Became a member of the Nomination Committee on 29 July 2008 actions in respect of certain processes identified for improvement.
Additionally, the Chairman has concluded that each director During 2008 the Chairman and the non-executive directors met in contributes effectively and demonstrates full commitment to the absence of the executive directors and there was one meeting of his her duties.
the non-executive directors chaired by the Senior Independent Director at which the Chairman was not present in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Aviva plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate governance report continued The systems are designed to: Board committees The Board has established the following standing committees to Safeguard assets: oversee and debate important issues of policy and oversight outside Maintain proper accounting records: the main Board meetings.
Provide reliable financial information: Audit Committee: Identify and manage business risks: Corporate Social Responsibility Committee: Maintain compliance with appropriate legislation and regulation: and Nomination Committee: Identify and adopt best practice.
Risk and Regulatory Committee: and The principal features of the control framework and the methods by Remuneration Committee.
which the Board satisfies itself that it is operating effectively are detailed below.
Throughout the year the chairman of each committee provided the Board with a summary of the key issues considered at the meetings of the committees and the minutes of the meetings were circulated Control environment to the Board.
The committees operate within defined terms of The Group has an established risk management and governance reference which are available from the Group Company Secretary framework, the key features of which include: upon request.
Board committees are authorised to engage the services of external advisers as they deem necessary in the Terms of reference for the Board and each of its committees: furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
A clear organisational structure, with documented delegation of Reports of the committee chairmen are set out on pages 95 to 119. authority from the Board to executive management: A Group policy framework, which sets out risk management and Conflicts of interest control standards for the Groups operations worldwide: In line with the Companies Act 2006, the articles of association were Defined procedures for the approval of major transactions and amended at the 2008 Annual General Meeting to allow the Board capital allocation: and to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to Committees of senior executives responsible for reviewing the impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
The decision to Groups financial risks Asset and Liability Management Committee authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted and non-financial, ie strategic and operational risks Group directors those who have no interest in the matter being considered Operational Risk Committee.
and in making such decision the directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the Companys The Groups risk management and governance framework is success.
The Company has established a procedure whereby actual consistent with the requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys and potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and for the risk-based framework for integrating the embedding risk and capital appropriate authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of management Prudential Sourcebook.
any new director or if a new conflict arises.
During 2008 this procedure operated effectively.
Risk identification, assessment and management There is in place an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Internal controls managing the significant risks faced by the Group which has The Combined Code requires directors to review and report annually operated throughout 2008 and up to the date of signing this report.
to shareholders on the effectiveness of the Companys systems of The Groups risk management and governance framework is internal control which include financial, operational and compliance designed to support the identification, assessment, monitoring, controls and risk management.
The Board has the overall management and control of risks that are significant to the responsibility for maintaining the systems of internal control of the achievement of the Groups business objectives.
The Group has a set Company and for monitoring their effectiveness: while the of formal policies which govern the management and control of implementation of internal control systems is the responsibility of both financial and non-financial risks.
The adoption of these policies management.
The Groups systems of internal control are designed throughout the Group enables a consistent approach to the to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve management of risk at regional and business unit level.
At Group business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not level, policy owners maintain policy content and guidance material absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
and are responsible for the definition of the management information requirements from the businesses to support the risk oversight committees in the discharge of their responsibilities.
Policy owners are also responsible for the Group-wide aggregation and oversight of their specific risks.
During 2008 the Group policy set has been embedded, the risk management framework has been reviewed and a new Chief Risk Officer appointed.
Governance 82 119 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 93 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Management monitors the completeness of the Groups risk profile Internal audit on a regular basis.
Each quarter, businesses report risk profiles and The Groups internal audit function advises management on the the adequacy of the mitigating action programmes, where risks are effectiveness of its internal control systems, the adequacy of these outside of the Groups risk appetite.
These assessments are based on systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups assets financial, reputational and operational criteria.
This enables the and resources.
Through the Chief Audit Officer, the internal audit Group risk function to assess the overall risk exposure and to function provides objective assurance on risk and control to both develop a Group-wide risk profile that is refreshed quarterly.
Material the Audit Committee and the Risk and Regulatory Committee.
items in the Group risk report are reported to the committee of the The effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function is reviewed Groups senior executives Executive Committee, the Risk and each year by the Audit Committee.
Regulatory Committee and in respect of social, environmental and ethical risks, the Boards Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
Communication with shareholders The Executive Committee considers whether the residual risks are within the Groups risk appetite, and the adequacy of the mitigating The Company places considerable importance on communication actions.
In addition the Executive Committee receives a fortnightly with shareholders and engages with them on a wide range of issues.
The Group has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings The Boards, audit committees and management of the operational between the executive directors and institutional investors, fund businesses also consider local risk reports in a similar way.
At these meetings a wide range of relevant reports are supplemented by escalation procedures for new or issues including strategy, performance, management and deteriorating risks.
In addition, business units provide a certificate governance are discussed within the constraints of information every six months to confirm compliance with the Groups risk already made public.
management framework and governance, and the terms of their The Companys Investor Relations department is dedicated to delegated authority.
Any risk or control issues not already reported facilitating communication with institutional investors.
The directors through the regular risk management processes must be specifically consider it important to understand the views of shareholders and, highlighted.
in particular, any issues which concern them.
The Board receives reports on matters that have been raised with management at the Control procedures and monitoring systems regular meetings held with the large investors.
During the year the Chairman held a meeting with the major institutional investors and The Group has a well-developed system of planning, incorporating attended investor meetings with management.
In addition, the Board approval of a rolling three-year Group plan.
Performance Senior Independent Director is available to meet with major against the plan is subsequently monitored and reported to the shareholders to discuss any areas of concern that cannot be resolved Board each time it meets.
This report also includes updates on through normal channels of investor communication and relevant measures of solvency and liquidity.
Performance is reported arrangements can be made to meet with the Senior Independent through the half-yearly publication of the Companys results based Director through the Group Company Secretary.
Similarly, on accounting policies that are applied consistently throughout the arrangements can be made for major shareholders to meet with Group.
Operational management reports quarterly to the Executive newly appointed directors.
In addition, the Board consults with Committee on a wide range of key performance and other shareholders in connection with specific issues where it considers significant matters and the Board receives regular representations appropriate.
For example, the chairman of the Remuneration from the senior executives responsible for each region and business Committee consulted with investors in 2008 regarding the function.
introduction of the One Aviva, Twice the Value Bonus Plan which is The Risk and Regulatory Committee has the overall responsibility of outlined in the Remuneration Committee report on page 103. monitoring the Groups internal control and risk management The Board is equally interested in the concerns of private systems on behalf of the Board.
In addition, the Audit Committee shareholders and, on its behalf the Group Company Secretary performs an annual review of the effectiveness of the internal audit oversees communication with these investors.
It is the practice of the function and the framework for the Groups internal financial Company to issue a postage paid reply form with its Annual General controls and financial reporting.
Throughout 2008, the Audit Meeting documentation to enable shareholders to put relevant Committee and the Risk and Regulatory Committee received questions to the directors.
This is considered to be particularly helpful quarterly reports from the Chief Audit Officer on issues arising and for those shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting.
updates on previously reported items.
More detailed reports on the Written responses are provided through a brochure containing work of these committees during 2008 are set out on pages 96 answers to the most frequently asked questions which is also placed and 98. on the Companys website.
All material information reported to the The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the regulatory news services is simultaneously published on the Groups systems of internal control.
This annual review has been Companys website affording all shareholders full access to Company supplemented by a major review of the adequacy and effectiveness announcements.
of financial reporting controls across the Group.
This additional The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within the review is being undertaken so that the Group will be able to meet Companies Act 2006 allowing communications to be made the financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 electronically to shareholders where they have not requested hard in the event of a possible listing of the Company on the New York copy documentation.
As a result the Companys website has become Stock Exchange.
The necessary actions have been or are being taken the primary method of communication for the majority of its to remedy significant failings or weaknesses identified from these shareholders.
Details of the information available for shareholders reviews.
These actions are being monitored by the Risk and on the website can be found on the Shareholder information pages Regulatory Committee or the Audit Committee as appropriate on 330 to 332. behalf of the Board.
Aviva plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate governance report continued The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a valuable state that the Company and the Group have complied with opportunity for the Board to communicate with private investors.
applicable IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and At the meeting, the Company complies with the Combined Code as explained in the accounts.
it relates to voting, the separation of resolutions and the attendance of committee chairmen.
Whenever possible, all directors attend the The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting Annual General Meeting and shareholders are invited to ask records which are intended to disclose with reasonable accuracy, questions during the meeting and have an opportunity to meet with at any time, the financial position of the Company and the Group.
the directors following the conclusion of the formal part of the They are also ultimately responsible for the systems of internal meeting.
In line with the Combined Code, details of proxy voting by control maintained by the Group for safeguarding the assets of shareholders, including votes withheld, are made available on the Company and the Group and for the prevention and detection request and are placed on the Companys website following the of fraud and other irregularities.
Further details of the systems meeting.
of internal controls maintained by the Group are more fully described on page 92.
The Companys annual report and accounts and annual review, together with the Companys interim reports, interim management Directors responsibility statement pursuant statements and other public announcements are designed to present to the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4 a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects and are available on the Companys website.
The The directors confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge: Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives review, and Business review provide an assessment of the Groups affairs and they will be a the Group and Company financial statements in this report, supported by a presentation to be made at the Annual General which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by Meeting.
the EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committees interpretation and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, give a true and fair view of the Institutional investor assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the Company and Aviva Investors, the Groups core asset management company, of the Group taken as a whole: and believes that good governance plays an important role in protecting b the management report contained in this report includes a fair and enhancing shareholder value.
In keeping with the Group's review of the development and performance of the business and values, Aviva Investors looks to act as a responsible investor, monitors the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, the governance of the companies in which it invests and seeks to together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties maintain an effective dialogue and engagement with companies on that they face.
matters which may affect the future performance of those companies.
By order of the Board Aviva Investors maintains a detailed Corporate Governance and Voting Policy as part of its investment strategy, which underpins its approach to engaging and voting at company general meetings.
The policy encompasses social, environmental and ethical issues and is applied pragmatically after careful consideration of all relevant information.
In addition, Aviva Investors makes detailed voting Andrew Moss Philip Scott Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer reports available to clients, as well as providing some summary reporting on its website www.
Going concern Directors responsibilities The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out The directors are required to prepare accounts for each accounting period that comply with the relevant provisions of the Companies in the Overview on pages 1 to 11 and the Business Review on pages 12 to 81.
The business review includes sections on Group Act 1985, the Companies Act 2006 where applicable and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the Performance pages 22 to 27, Capital Management pages 28 to 31, and Risk Management pages 32 to 35.
In addition the financial European Union, and which present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Company and the statements include notes on the groups borrowings note 47 : its contingent liabilities and other risk factors note 50 : its capital Group at the end of the accounting period.
A fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the structure and position notes 53 and 54 : management of its major risks including market, credit and liquidity risk note 55 : and directors to: derivative financial instruments note 56. select suitable accounting policies and verify that they are applied The group has considerable financial resources together with a consistently in preparing the accounts, on a going concern basis diversified business model, with a spread of businesses and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the geographical reach.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group will continue in business: group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that the current uncertain economic outlook.
is relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable: After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific that the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern Company and the Groups financial position and financial basis in preparing the accounts.
performance: and Governance 82 119 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 95 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Nomination Committee report Other information This report provides details of the role of the Nomination Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The main purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by keeping the composition of the Board under review and conducting a rigorous and transparent process when making or renewing appointments of directors to the Board.
It also advises the Board on issues of directors conflicts of interest and independence.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys website, www.
com, and are also available from the Group Company Secretary.
The following directors served on the Committee during the year: Period Member From To Lord Sharman Chairman 25 January 2006 To date Nikesh Arora 29 July 2008 To date Guillermo fide la Dehesa 21 June 2000 29 July 2008 Wim Dik 26 April 2004 29 July 2008 Richard Goeltz 29 July 2008 To date Andrew Moss 12 July 2007 To date Russell Walls 23 January 2007 To date The Committee met on two occasions in 2008 and the members attendance record is set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 91.
Nikesh Arora and Richard Goeltz were appointed as members of the Committee on 29 July 2008 and Guillermo fide la Dehesa and Wim Dik ceased to be members from that date.
The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the directors.
It also reviews their external interests with a view to identifying any actual, perceived or potential conflicts of interests, including the time available to commit to their duties to the Company.
The Committee monitors the independence of each non-executive director and makes recommendations concerning such to the Board.
The results of these reviews are important when the Board considers succession planning and the re-election and reappointment of directors and members of the Committee take no part in any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
During the year the Board accepted the Committees recommendations that Mark Hodges and Euleen Goh join the Board.
Mark Hodges was appointed as an executive director of the Board, increasing the number of executive directors to three.
The appointment of Euleen Goh as a new non-executive director from 1 January 2009 also helps to maintain the balance of the Board in the context of the retirement of Wim Dik during 2009.
In respect of Ms Gohs appointment the Committee engaged a search agency to help it identify suitable candidates with the skills and capabilities required and to assist with the preparation of an interview list.
In line with the Combined Code requirement the Board undertook a review of the effectiveness of all its committees during the year, including the Nomination Committee.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 4 March 2009.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch Chairman, Nomination Committee
