Governance 82 119 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 99 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Corporate Social Responsibility Committee report Other information This report provides details of the role of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The purpose of the Committee is to provide guidance and direction to the Groups corporate social responsibility CSR programme, review the key CSR risks and opportunities and to monitor progress.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys website, www.
com, and are also available from the Group Company Secretary.
The following directors served on the Committee during the year: Period Member From To Wim Dik Chairman 14 January 2006 31 December 2008 Guillermo fide la Dehesa 14 January 2006 31 December 2008 Euleen Goh 1 January 2009 To date Andrew Moss 12 July 2007 To date Carole Piwnica 14 January 2006 To date Lord Sharman 14 January 2006 To date Scott Wheway 5 December 2007 To date The Committee met on four occasions in 2008 and the members attendance record is set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 91.
The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
During the year the Committee reviewed and approved the content and scope of the Companys 2008 CSR Report, monitored the management of the CSR risks affecting the Group and helped establish a process by which regions could report performance and progress to the Committee.
The Committee reviewed each regions performance and progress during the year.
During the Boards visit to the Groups French operations in September 2008 the Committee held a meeting with the senior managers responsible for CSR.
The meeting allowed the Committee to gain a deeper understanding of the relevant local issues and assess how CSR was being embedded in the business.
The Committee received ongoing updates on the Groups key CSR programme activities, including climate change, community investment, diversity and external benchmarking.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups carbon offset projects as part of managements commitment to be carbon neutral on a global basis.
Avivas Chairman, the Chairman of the Committee and a nonexecutive director committee member participated in the Groups Annual CSR Conference that took place in September 2008.
Members of the Committee are interviewed as part of the external assurance process of the CSR programme and the subsequent management report, including Avivas action plan, is reviewed by the Committee to assist the strengthening and future direction of the programme.
In line with the Combined Code requirement the Board undertook a review of the effectiveness of all its committees during the year, including the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 4 March 2009.
Wim Dik Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
