Aviva plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Audit Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and During the year the Committee and the Risk and Regulatory the work it has undertaken during the year.
The purpose of the Committee held a joint meeting in Paris with the chairman of the Committee is to assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities for Aviva France audit committee.
This meeting allowed the Committee the integrity of the Companys financial statements, the assessment to gain a deeper understanding of the relevant local issues and of the effectiveness of the systems of internal financial controls and assess the effectiveness of the systems of internal financial controls monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and and the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and external external auditors.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can auditors in that business.
be found on the Companys website, www.
com, and are also Each of the Groups major business units has an audit committee available from the Group Company Secretary.
that provides an oversight role for its business.
The Chief Audit The following independent non-executive directors, served on the Officer reviews the papers and minutes from these committees and Committee during the year: brings all significant matters to the Committees attention.
In addition during 2008 the members of the Committee attended Period several local audit committee meetings including those in Aviva USA, Member From To Norwich Union Life, Norwich Union Insurance, Aviva Canada, Aviva Russell Walls Chairman 1 July 2004 To date France, Hibernian and Aviva Italy.
This programme of attendance at Mary Francis 1 January 2007 To date local audit committee meetings will continue during 2009.
Richard Karl Goeltz 1 July 2004 To date Euleen Goh 1 January 2009 To date The Committee receives reports from the external auditor and Carole Piwnica 24 September 2003 31 December 2008 regularly holds discussions with both the internal and external auditors in the absence of management.
The chairman of the The Committee met on seven occasions in 2008 and the members Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board on the attendance record is set out in the Corporate Governance report on Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of page 91.
In addition, the Committee held separate meetings with each meeting of the Committee.
members of senior management for the purpose of induction and training.
The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
Russell Walls, a Fellow Chartered Certified Accountant, Internal audit is a former Group Finance Director of BAA plc, Wellcome plc and The Groups internal audit function reports to management on the Coats Viyella plc.
Richard Karl Goeltz is a former Chief Financial effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal controls, the Officer of American Express Company and NatWest Group plc.
adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard Euleen Goh, a Chartered Accountant and member of the Chartered the Groups assets and resources.
The internal audit function is fully Institute of Taxation, is a former Financial Controller of Pontiac Land centralised and each country region head has a full reporting line to and Chief Executive of Standard Chartered Bank, Singapore.
The the Chief Audit Officer with the exception of Delta Lloyd.
Through Board is satisfied that these directors have recent and relevant the Chief Audit Officer, the internal audit function provides objective financial experience.
assurance on risks and controls to the Committee.
The plans, the level of resources and the budget of the internal audit function are The Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Audit reviewed at least annually by the Committee, which also undertakes Officer, Group Chief Accountant, Chief Risk Officer and the external an annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit auditor normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the function against guidance criteria provided by the Institute of Committee.
Other members of senior management are also invited Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and by the Institute of to attend as appropriate to present reports.
It is the Committees Internal Auditors IIA.
This year the review has been undertaken by practice at each meeting to meet separately with the Chief Audit  to meet the IIA standards requiring that an Officer and the external auditor without any members of independent review of internal audit effectiveness be undertaken at management being present.
In performing its duties, the Committee least every five years.
The results of the review confirmed that Group has access to the services of the Chief Audit Officer, the Group Internal Audit generally conformed with the International Standards Company Secretary and external professional advisers.
for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.
In addition, the The Committee follows an agreed annual work plan.
It reviews, with Group Audit Committee is consulted in determining the objectives members of management and the internal and external auditors, the and remuneration of the Chief Audit Officer.
Companys financial announcements including the annual report and The deteriorating economic and market environment required even accounts to shareholders and associated documentation.
It places greater attention to internal financial controls in 2008.
During 2008 particular emphasis on their fair presentation and the reasonableness the Group internal audit function carried out an assurance review of of the judgemental factors and appropriateness of significant the Groups management of the economic crisis conditions and the accounting policies used in their preparation.
At each meeting, the management actions put in place to maintain business as usual Committee receives a report from the Chief Audit Officer concerning activities.
the Companys systems of internal financial control, including any significant new issues and actions taken on previously reported issues.
Twice each year, the Committee receives reports on the External auditor adequacy of the Groups life assurance and general insurance Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young was appointed auditor of the reserves.
The Committee also reviews the annual work plan for the Company in 2001 having previously been the auditor of Norwich Groups internal audit function.
The Committee reports to the Board Union plc.
Following the annual external audit effectiveness review regarding the effectiveness of the Groups overall systems of internal the Committee concluded that the audit was fit for purpose and financial control including the risk management systems in relation recommended that a re-tender process should not be undertaken in to the financial reporting process.
The Committee works closely with 2008 but that the relationship and the effectiveness of the auditor the Risk and Regulatory Committee, which reviews the Companys be kept under review.
The audit signing partner changed as part of a overall internal controls and risk management systems.
Ernst & Young audits all significant subsidiaries of the Group.
Governance 82 119 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 97 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information The Company introduced a revised external auditor policy on 1 January 2008 aimed at safeguarding and supporting the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The policy was updated to reflect current global best practice on auditor independence, and is in full compliance with all UK, US and International Federation of Accountants IFAC rules.
The revised policy aims to be simpler to interpret, providing greater clarity on what services may and may not be provided by the Groups external auditors.
The policy regulates the appointment of former audit employees to senior finance positions in the Group and sets out the approach to be taken by the Group when using the services of the external auditor, including requiring that all services provided by the external auditor are pre-approved by the Aviva plc Audit Committee.
It distinguishes between those services where an independent view is required and that should be performed by the external auditor such as statutory and non-statutory audit and assurance work, prohibited services where the independence of the external auditor could be threatened and they must not be used, and other nonaudit services where the external auditor may be used.
Non-audit services where the external auditor may be used include: nonrecurring internal controls and risk management reviews i. e. excluding outsourcing of internal audit work, advice on financial reporting and regulatory matters, due diligence on acquisitions and disposals, project assurance and advice, tax compliance services, and employee tax services.
Annually, the Committee reviews a formal letter provided by the external auditor confirming its independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards.
The Group paid 12.1 million to Ernst & Young for audit services in 2008, relating to the statutory audit of the Group and Company financial statements and the audit of Group subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation 2007: 10.2 million.
The fees for other services which included advice on accounting and regulatory matters, reporting on internal controls, corporate governance matters, and due diligence work were 12.9 million giving a total fee to Ernst & Young of 25.0 million 2007: 19.1 million.
Further details are provided in note 12 to the accounts.
In addition, the Group engaged the Corporate Citizenship in relation to certain assurance work including verification of its Corporate Social Responsibility report.
During the year, the Committee performed its annual review of the independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the external auditor: assessing the audit firm, the audit partner and audit teams.
The process was conducted by means of a questionnaire, completed Group-wide by members of senior management and members of the Groups finance community.
The questionnaire sought opinions on the importance of certain criteria and the performance of the external auditor against those criteria.
Based on this review, the Committee concluded that the audit service of Ernst & Young was fit for purpose and provided a robust overall examination of the Groups business and the risks involved.
In line with the Combined Code requirement the Board undertook a review of the effectiveness of all its committees during the year, including the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Committee also carried out a self-evaluation of its effectiveness.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 4 March 2009.
Russell Walls Chairman, Audit Committee
