Aviva plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk and Regulatory Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Risk and Regulatory Regulation and compliance Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year, and The Committee works with management to ensure that the Group should be read in conjunction with the report on the Groups has a constructive relationship with its lead regulator, the FSA, and approach to risk and capital management on pages 28 to 35. with the local regulators who oversee its businesses worldwide.
During the year the Committee received regular reports on ongoing The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in providing leadership, direction and oversight with regard to the Groups risk compliance issues and regulatory and other public policy initiatives.
In particular, the Committee monitored the actions being taken by and regulatory policies and procedures, including those related to compliance, risk management, financial malpractice and internal management in relation to the Risk Mitigation Programme agreed with the FSA: encouraged measures to strengthen oversight of the controls.
The Committee also monitors the Groups risk exposures relative to appetite.
The full terms of reference for the Committee Groups compliance functions outside the UK: and received presentations on the Groups Treating Customers Fairly Programme can be found on the Companys website, www.
com, and are also available from the Group Company Secretary.
in the UK and global customer centricity initiative.
The following independent non-executive directors served on the Internal Audit Committee during the year: The Groups internal audit function provides the Committee with Period independent and objective assurance over the appropriateness, Member From To effectiveness and sustainability of the Companys system of internal Mary Francis Chairman 14 January 2006 To date controls in place to mitigate significant risks.
The Group Internal Nikesh Arora 1 July 2007 To date Audit plan is based on a robust and structured planning process Wim Dik 14 January 2006 To date using a risk based methodology that allows for quarterly updates Russell Walls 14 January 2006 To date to reflect changes to the Companys risk profile.
Key control issues The Committee met on five occasions in 2008 and the members reported by Group Internal Audit to management and to the attendance record is set out in the Corporate Governance report on Committee members are monitored on a quarterly basis until the page 91.
In addition the Committee held separate meetings with risk exposure has been properly mitigated.
Reports on financial members of senior management and Ernst & Young for the malpractice are also presented to the Committee including incidence purposes of induction and training.
The Group Company Secretary of fraud, anti-money laundering procedures and, at least on an acts as the secretary to the Committee.
annual basis, arrangements whereby persons can report in confidence any concerns about lack of probity whistleblowing.
The Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Audit Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Group Regulatory Director and the During the year the Committee and the Audit Committee held a external auditor normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the joint meeting in Paris with the chairman of the Aviva France audit Committee.
Other members of senior management are also invited committee.
This meeting allowed the Committee to gain a deeper to attend as appropriate to present reports.
It is the Committees understanding of the relevant local issues and assess how the practice at each meeting to meet separately with the Chief Audit Groups risk management framework, and regulatory policies and Officer and the external auditor without any members of procedures were being embedded in the business.
In performing its duties, the Committee The chairman of the Committee reports at the subsequent meeting has access to the services of the Chief Audit Officer, the Chief Risk of the Board on the Committees work and the Board receives a Officer, the Group Regulatory Director, the Group Company copy of the minutes of each meeting of the Committee.
Secretary and external professional advisers.
In line with the Combined Code requirement the Board undertook During the year the work of the Committee fell into the following a review of the effectiveness of all its committees during the year, broad areas: including the Risk and Regulatory Committee.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 4 March Risk management 2009.
The deteriorating economic and market environment required even greater attention to risk management in 2008, and heightened the Mary Francis Chairman, Risk and Regulatory Committee interest of external stakeholders in the Companys processes and controls.
The Committees oversight focused on: continuing to improve the framework for identifying, monitoring and mitigating risks across the Group: ensuring that key financial risks especially market and credit risks were being identified and managed effectively: ensuring that operational risks, especially in IT and business protection and continuity, were well monitored and controlled: and monitoring how risk is managed at local and regional level within the Group through presentations from business unit leaders and risk teams.
Between its formal meetings, the Committee received regular information from management on the Group's risk exposures and mitigating actions.
Financial risk and capital management issues occupied the largest part of the Committees time during the year, and are likely to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
