The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 29 Corporate Governance Introduction that there is no requirement for an internal audit function.
The directors are accountable to shareholders for the The directors annually review whether a function equivalent to governance of the Companys affairs.
an internal audit is needed and will continue to monitor its systems of internal controls in order to provide assurance that This statement describes how the principles of the they operate as intended.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and Board Independence and Composition revised in June 2006 have been applied to the affairs of the The Board currently consists of six directors, all of whom are Company.
In applying the principles of the Code, the non-executive.
Following the introduction of the Code the directors have also taken account of the Code of Corporate directors have reviewed their independence.
The Nominations Governance published by the Association of Investment Committee has considered the continued appointment of Companies the AIC Code which established a framework Mr Brewster and Mr Sumner who have served on the Board of best practice specifically for the boards of investment for over nine years.
They have no other links to the Manager, trust companies.
in addition they have a wide range of other interests and are not dependent in any way on the Company itself and the Application of the AIC Codes Principles and Statement Nominations Committee concluded that they continue to make of Compliance a valuable contribution to the Board and, notwithstanding The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board attaches length of service, they remain independent in character and importance to the matters set out in the AIC Code and lists judgement.
below how the AIC Codes principles have been applied.
The Board subscribes to the AIC Codes view that length of It should be noted that, as an investment trust, most of the tenure is not in itself believed to be an issue and does not Companys day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third diminish the directors contribution.
The Board is conscious of parties, the Company has no employees and the directors are the need to maintain continuity on the Board, and believes that all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions of the Code are retaining directors with sufficient experience of both the directly applicable to the Company.
Company and the markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
The directors believe that during the year under review they The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the they apply to the Companys business, and with the provisions appointment of new directors with the skills and experience of the Code except as noted below.
necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their The role of chief executive commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
Since all directors are non-executive and day-to-day The Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the experience of various disciplines.
Mr Matthew Thorne was Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive.
appointed as a director on 27 November 2008.
The directors biographies, on page 19, demonstrate the breadth Executive directors remuneration of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant As the Board has no executive directors, it is not required to to their positions as directors on the Board of the Company.
comply with the principles of the Code in respect of executive directors remuneration and does not have a Remuneration Chairman Committee.
Directors fees are detailed in the Directors The Chairman, Mr Brewster, is an independent non-executive Remuneration Report on page 27. director who has no conflicting relationships.
Internal audit function Senior Independent Director As the Company delegates to third parties its day-to-day Mr Sumner was appointed as Senior Independent Director on operations and has no employees, the Board has determined 28 February 2005.
30 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Corporate Governance continued Meetings The membership of each Committee is shown on the inside Currently the Board meets eight times per annum and is back cover of this report.
responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys Board Committees affairs.
Certain strategic issues have been considered at The Board has appointed a number of Committees as set out various meetings of the Board and additional meetings of the below.
Copies of the terms of reference which clearly define Board may be arranged as required.
The Board has a formal the responsibilities and duties for each Committee are schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision which available on the website or on request and will be available are categorised under various headings including strategy, for inspection at the AGM.
management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share price discount, Audit Committee contracts, policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, The Audit Committee comprises Mr Thomas, Mr Sumner, performance, corporate governance and Board membership Mr Killingbeck and Mr Thorne, all of whom are considered and appointments.
In order to enable them to discharge their independent.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is responsibilities, all directors have full and timely access to Mr Thomas.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one of relevant information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the the Committees members has recent and relevant financial Companys investment performance and considers financial experience.
The Committee has written terms of reference, analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
The which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset allocation parameters, The Committee meets at least three times each year to review investment and gearing limits within which the Manager has the internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider discretion to act.
The Board thus supervises the management and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of the of the investment portfolio, which is contractually delegated Half-Year and Annual Report & Financial Statement to to the Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the approval shareholders and to review the accounting policies and of unquoted investments and all investments in in-house significant financial reporting judgements.
In addition, the funds managed or advised by the Manager.
It also has Committee reviews the auditors independence, objectivity adopted a procedure for directors, in the furtherance of and effectiveness, appointment and remuneration, the quality their duties, to take independent professional advice at the of the services of the service providers to the Company, and, expense of the Company.
together with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory The Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the requirements.
Representatives of the Managers internal audit investment trust companies managed by the Manager: these and compliance departments attend these meetings at the meetings provide a forum to discuss a variety of relevant Chairmans request.
matters and the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
Representatives of  LLP, the Companys The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held auditors, attend the Committee meeting at which the Annual during the year and the attendance of individual directors Report and financial statements are reviewed and are given the excluding Mr Thorne who joined the Board on 27 November opportunity to speak to the Committee members without the 2008, which was after the Companys financial year end, are presence of the representatives of the Manager.
All directors attend the Annual General Meeting.
Management The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the Audit Nominations Engagement Charities Board Committee Committee Committee Committee AGM to deal with questions relating to the Financial Statements.
No of meetings 8331 2 Management Engagement Committee Mr R D Brewster 8 n a 3 1 2 Mr R R J Burns 7 n a 2 1 n a The Management Engagement Committees membership Mr R Killingbeck 8331 n a comprises Mr Brewster, Mr Burns, Mr Killingbeck, Mr Sumner, Mr J Morley 2 2 n a 1 n a Mr Thomas and Mr Thorne.
The Chairman of the Committee is Mr F I Sumner 7321 2 Mr Brewster.
The Committee meets at least annually to review Mr D Thomas 8 3 n a 1 n a the investment management agreement with the Companys Mr Morley retired from the Company on 27 February 2008.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 31 Corporate Governance continued Manager and to review the services provided by the Manager.
The articles of association provide that one-third of the directors must retire by rotation and may offer themselves for re-election at each AGM.
The terms of the directors Nominations Committee appointment also provide that a director shall retire and be The Nominations Committee comprises Mr Brewster, subject to re-election at the first AGM after appointment and Mr Burns, Mr Sumner and Mr Killingbeck.
The Chairman of at least every three years thereafter.
the Nominations Committee is Mr Brewster.
The Committee, which meets at least annually, reviews the Boards size and The Board believes that each of the directors exercises structure and is responsible for Board succession planning.
independent judgement and that length of service does not The other members of the Board may attend meetings of the diminish the contribution from a director: indeed a directors Nominations Committee by invitation.
experience and extensive knowledge of the Company is a positive benefit to the Board.
Moreover, long-serving directors The Board used an external recruitment consultant when are less likely to take a short-term view.
This view is supported appointing Mr Thorne as a director.
However, as two of the directors have served on the Board for more than nine years their Charities Committee independence is assessed according to the criteria set out in The Charities Committee comprises Mr Sumner and the Code Code provision A.
In light of Code provision Mr Brewster who consider requests for charitable donations of A.
7.2, the two directors who have served for nine years or a limited nature within set criteria.
During the year donations more, will be seeking annual re-election from shareholders.
Directors Training Directors Remuneration When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a As the Board has no executive directors and no employees training seminar which is held by the Manager.
Directors are and is comprised solely of non-executives, it does not have also provided on a regular basis with key information on the a Remuneration Committee.
The Company therefore is not Companys activities including regulatory and statutory required to comply with the principles of the Code in respect requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting of executive directors remuneration.
It is the responsibility of directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they the Board as a whole to determine and approve directors arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant training fees following proper consideration having regard to the level and industry seminars.
of fees payable to non-executive directors in the industry generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect of Performance Evaluation Board and Committee responsibilities and the time committed to the Companys affairs.
The Board In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the The Chairmans remuneration is decided and approved by the Committees and the individual directors, the Chairman has put Board under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director.
in place and carried out a thorough appraisal process.
This was The Companys articles of association limit the aggregate fees implemented by way of a discussion document and interviews payable to the Board to a total of 150,000 per annum.
In respect of the Chairman, interviews Detailed information on the remuneration arrangements for were held between the directors and the Senior Independent the directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Director.
The process is considered by the Board to be Remuneration Report on pages 26 and 27. constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and the Tenure Policy Committees, the contribution of individual directors, as well as No director has a contract of employment with the Company.
building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
Directors terms and conditions for appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at The Company the Registered Office of the Company and will be available at The performance of the Company is considered in detail at the AGM.
32 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Corporate Governance continued The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice and and risk departments on a continuing basis and is also reviewed services provided by the Manager which, through its nominated by the Company.
representative, is responsible for ensuring that the Board and The Manager and the custodian maintain their own systems Committee procedures are followed and that applicable of internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee regulations are complied with.
During the year the Company has receive regular reports from the Manager.
The control systems maintained insurance cover in respect of legal action against the are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, directors: this does not cover fraud, negligence or wilful default.
assurance against material misstatement or loss, and to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to Continued Appointment of the Manager achieve objectives.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at each Board meeting.
The Management Engagement Committee The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating regularly reviews the terms of the contract with the Manager.
and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The process is subject to regular review by the Board and The Board has delegated contractually to the Manager and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on other external third parties, the management of the the Combined Code published in September 1999 the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the Turnbull Guidance which was revised by the FRC in safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, October 2005 and June 2006. company secretarial, administration and registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken an consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of services offered, including the control systems in operation in internal control and the business risks have been analysed and so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
The Board receives each quarter from the Manager a formal report which The Board receives and considers regular reports from the details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to those that are not directly the responsibility of the Manager, the Board as required.
and which reports the details of any known internal control In the opinion of the directors the continued appointment of failures.
The Board receives each year from the Manager a the Manager on the terms agreed is in the best interests of the report on its internal controls which includes a report from the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Manager has extensive Managers reporting accountants on the control policies and investment management resources and wide experience in procedures in operation.
managing and administering investment trust companies.
The Board confirms that in the event of any significant failings or weakness identified from the annual review of the Internal Controls effectiveness of the Companys system of Internal Control, The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems necessary actions would be taken to remedy them.
of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These controls aim to ensure that assets of the Company are Conflicts of Interest safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, or the financial information used within the business and for could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
With financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 the embedded in the controls of the Company by a series of regular Act, has allowed directors of public companies to authorise investment performance and attribution statements, financial such conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, but and risk analyses and Managers reports, and a quarterly control only if the articles of association contain a provision to this report.
Key risks have been identified and controls have been effect.
The Act also allows the articles of association to put in place to mitigate such risks, including those risks that are contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of not directly the responsibility of the Manager.
The effectiveness interest to avoid a breach of duty.
There are two safe harbours of the internal controls is assessed by the Managers compliance The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 33 Corporate Governance continued either the situation cannot reasonably be regarded as likely Voting Policy to give rise to a conflict of interest or the matter has been The Company has approved a corporate governance voting authorised in advance by the directors.
The Companys new policy which accords with current best practice whilst Articles of Association, which were approved by shareholders maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
on 27 February 2008 and which were effective from Relations with Shareholders 1 October 2008, give the directors the relevant authority Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board required to deal with conflicts of interest.
The prime medium by which the Company Each of the directors has provided a statement of all communicates with shareholders is through the Half-Year and conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest Annual Report and Financial Statements which aim to provide applicable to the Company.
A register of conflicts of interest shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys has been compiled and approved by the Board.
Going activities and their results.
This information is supplemented forward, the directors have also all undertaken to notify the by the daily calculation and by the publication at the Stock Chairman as soon as they become aware of any new Exchange of the net asset value NAV of the Companys potential conflicts of interest that would need to be ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
approved by the Board and added to the Register, which will Information about the Company can be found at be reviewed annually by the Board.
com It has also been agreed that directors will advise the Chairman At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager and the Company Secretary in advance of any proposed following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have the external appointment and new directors will be asked to opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and the submit a list of potential situations falling within the conflicts Chairmen of the Committees of the Board at the AGM.
All of interest provisions of the 2006 Act in advance of joining shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
The Chairman will then determine whether the relevant appointment causes a conflict or potential conflict of It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and interest and should therefore be considered by the Board.
Financial Statements and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days Only directors who have no interest in the matter being notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in considered will be able to participate in the Board approval advance of the AGM are invited to do so by writing to the process.
In deciding whether to approve a conflict of interest, Company Secretary at the address given on the inside back directors will also act in a way they consider, in good faith, cover of this report.
At other times the Company responds to will be most likely to promote the Companys success in letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
The Board can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if the directors consider General presentations to both shareholders and analysts follow this to be appropriate.
the announcement of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
The Board believes that its powers of authorisation of conflicts has operated effectively since they were introduced on New Zealand Listing 1 October 2008.
The Board also confirms that its procedures It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate for the approval of conflicts of interest have been followed by Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock all the directors.
Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
Investors can find more Financial Reporting information regarding the UK Codes of Corporate The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Governance on www.
Financial Statements is set out on page 28, the Report of the Independent Auditors on pages 57 and 58 and the Statement of Going Concern on page 25.
