Governance C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 157 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Group Chairmans Introduction Statements of Compliance I am pleased to report to you on the activities of the Board and its UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance Committees during 2008.
Our report sets out how we have complied As Barclays is listed on the London Stock Exchange, we comply with the with the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and Code.
For the year ended 31st December 2008, we have complied with also gives further details of the matters that the Board and its principal the relevant provisions set out in section 1 of the Code and applied the Committees have considered over the year.
principles of the Code as described in this report.
The year proved to be extremely challenging for the financial services NYSE Corporate Governance Rules industry as increasing vulnerabilities exposed in the global financial Barclays has American Depositary Receipts listed on the New York Stock system created a period of exceptional instability.
Exchange NYSE and is also subject to the NYSEs Corporate Governance During October 2008, it became clear that an industry-wide solution rules NYSE Rules.
We are exempt from most of the NYSE Rules, which to the risks of systemic failure in the UK financial services sector was domestic US companies must follow, because we are a non-US company needed.
The outcome of discussions between the UKs FSA and all UK listed on the NYSE.
However, we are required to provide an Annual Written banks was that we, along with many of our competitors, were required Affirmation to the NYSE of our compliance with the applicable NYSE Rules to raise additional equity and Tier 1 capital to take our capital ratios well and must also disclose any significant differences between our corporate beyond the levels we had previously agreed with our regulators the governance practices and those followed by domestic US companies Capital Raising.
As our main listing is on the London Stock Exchange, The background to the Capital Raising announced by Barclays on 2 we follow the UKs Combined Code.
Key differences between the Code and 31st October 2008 is set out in my statement on pages 10 and 11.
NYSE Rules are set out later in this report.
In the extraordinary circumstances leading up to that announcement, the Board had choices to make choices not available to all banks.
These choices entailed exceptionally difficult judgements made in market circumstances where from one day to the next nothing could be taken for granted.
These choices included retaining independent control of the business in undertaking the recapitalisation required by the authorities: recapitalising the business in one market operation well in advance of the June 2009 deadline set by the authorities: and effecting a recapitalisation under which all shareholders were not afforded their pre-emption rights.
The Board did not take any of these decisions lightly: its governance processes were rigorous.
It met frequently, debated the issues at length, heard differing views and arguments, sought external advice and consulted representative shareholder bodies.
The decisions it made were reached in the interests of shareholders as the Board, in the circumstances at the time, perceived them to be.
These included forming judgements about the earnings per share and return on capital consequences of the Capital Raising for existing shareholders.
The Board believes that the decisions made have resulted in the Group being able to maintain its strategic momentum.
The Directors deeply regret, however, that the Capital Raising denied Barclays then existing shareholders their full rights of pre-emption with respect to the ordinary shares issued.
The Directors recognise that there is a high level of unhappiness on the part of some shareholders that the principle of pre-emption was breached, with consequent dilution of shareholdings and that, were it not to avoid the risk of destabilising the Company or the system, more of them may have voted against the enabling resolution at the General Meeting on 24th November 2008.
The Directors wish to place on record both their appreciation of the support received from shareholders in difficult circumstances in completing the Capital Raising and to re-affirm their fundamental commitment to the principle of pre-emption.
The Board is clear that the extraordinary circumstances which they were required to deal with were so unusual as to be effectively unique.
Marcus Agius Group Chairman 5th March 2009 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 157 C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 158 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance framework We arrange scheduled Board and Committee meetings at least a year in advance.
All Directors are expected to attend each meeting and the The Group operates within a comprehensive governance framework, which is set out in the diagram below.
Details of the Groups risk attendance at scheduled Board meetings is set out on page 163.
All Directors are provided with background papers and relevant information management framework can be found on pages 75 to 79.
The Board is responsible for managing the Company on behalf of its in advance of each meeting.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting because of exceptional circumstances, he or she will still receive the shareholders and each Director must act in a way that he or she considers promotes the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of those supporting papers and will usually discuss with the Chairman of the meeting any matters they wish to raise to ensure their views are given due shareholders as a whole.
The Board also ensures that an appropriate balance between promoting long-term growth and delivering short-term consideration.
The Group Chairman usually meets with the non-executive Directors, without the executive Directors or any senior management objectives is achieved.
The Board delegates responsibility for the day-today management of the Company to the Group Chief Executive, who is present, ahead of each scheduled Board meeting to brief them on the business of the meeting.
These meetings give the non-executive Directors then responsible for ensuring that the business is operating effectively.
The Group Chief Executive is supported by the Executive Committee, an opportunity to advise the Chairman if they have any particular questions they wish to raise.
The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive which he chairs, and the Executive Committee is supported by a number of management committees, including the Disclosure Committee.
Details and Company Secretary are always available for the Directors to discuss any issues relating to the Board meetings or other matters.
In 2008, all of the Disclosure Committee are set out on page 168.
This report sets out how the Board and its Committees work within the governance Directors contributed the appropriate amount of time needed to fulfil their responsibilities.
Reasons for non-attendance are generally prior business, framework and corporate governance guidelines.
The Board has eight scheduled Board meetings each year.
Strategy is personal commitments or illness.
Given market conditions in 2008, several meetings had to be rearranged at short notice and it was not always reviewed regularly at these meetings and there is normally a day and a half offsite meeting to consider and approve the Groups strategy for the next possible for all Directors to attend on the revised date.
The Group Chairman and the Company Secretary work together to year.
In addition to the scheduled Board meetings in 2008, 23 additional Board meetings were held during the year.
The purpose of these meetings make sure that the information communicated to the Board is accurate, timely and clear.
This applies in advance of regular, scheduled Board was to discuss the difficult market conditions that existed during the year and in particular the three equity capital raising transactions that were meetings and in exceptional circumstances between those meetings.
Timely communication of information was particularly important this year, undertaken: the 4.5bn Placing and Open Offer in July the Open Offer, the 701m Placing in September the Placing and the issue of 4.05bn given the need for the Board to respond to rapidly changing circumstances.
Directors also have secure access to electronic copies of meeting papers in Mandatorily Convertible Notes, 3bn in Reserve Capital Instruments by Barclays Bank PLC and warrants for new ordinary shares in November and other key documents via a dedicated Directors intranet, which includes past and current Board and Committee papers, reports, minutes, press the Capital Raising.
There were 12 Board meetings held in October and November specifically to discuss the Capital Raising.
There were also eight coverage, analyst reports and material from briefing sessions.
The services of the Company Secretary and his team are available to all Directors.
meetings of the Board Finance Committee, to which the Board delegated authority to approve certain aspects of the capital raising transactions and Directors may also take independent professional advice on request, at the Companys expense.
the acquisition of Lehman Brothers North American businesses.
The Board Finance Committee comprises the Group Chairman, the Group The Board Chief Executive and at least two independent non-executive Directors, typically the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Role of the Board Directors are required, by UK company law, to act in a way they consider, in These additional Board meetings, which were called at short notice, had attendance of 78% for the Open Offer May-July 2008, 85% for good faith, would promote the success of Barclays for the benefit of the shareholders as a whole.
In doing so, the Directors must have regard the acquisition of the Lehman Brothers North American businesses September 2008 and 90% for the Capital Raising October-November amongst other matters to: 2008.
Attendance at the Board Finance Committee was 100%.
Those the likely consequences of any decision in the long term: Directors who were unable to attend any meeting were briefed separately on the discussions at the meetings and their views were sought.
the interests of Barclays employees: Corporate governance framework Board Audit Committee Board Board HR and Remuneration Committee Group Chairman, four executive Directors, 11 non-executive Directors Board Corporate Governance Board Risk Committee Group Chief Executive and Nominations Committee Executive Committee Management committees including Disclosure Committee | 158 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Governance C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 159 the need to foster Barclays business relationships with suppliers, Summary of Matters Reserved to the Board customers and others: Approval of the Groups strategy, Medium-Term and Short-Term Plans the impact of Barclays operations on the community and the and Risk Appetite environment: Monitoring delivery of the strategy and performance against plan the desirability of Barclays maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct: and Changes relating to capital structure or status as a PLC the need to act fairly as between shareholders of Barclays.
Approval of annual Capital Plan Approval of interim and final financial statements, dividends and The role and responsibilities of the Barclays Board are set out in Corporate any significant change in accounting policies or practices Governance in Barclays, which is available on our website at www.
Authorisation of Directors conflicts or possible conflicts of interest Appointment or removal of Company Secretary The duties of Directors, described above, form part of their role and responsibilities.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for creating and Any share dividend alternative delivering sustainable shareholder value.
In order to achieve this it must Remuneration of auditors and recommendations for appointment 2 establish the objectives and policies of the Group that will deliver long-term or removal of auditors value.
The Board sets the overall strategic direction and ensures it is delivered within an appropriate framework of reward, incentive and control.
Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and significant press releases Another key responsibility of the Board is to ensure that management Principal regulatory filings with stock exchanges maintains a system of internal control that provides assurance of effective and efficient operations, internal financial controls and compliance with Board appointments and removals law and regulation.
The Board considers the Groups business and Role profiles of key positions on the Board reputation and ensures that the controls in place are appropriate to the materiality of financial and other risks and the relative costs and benefits Terms of reference and membership of Board Committees of implementing specific controls.
Major acquisitions, mergers or disposals The Board has its powers set out in a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision.
A summary of the matters reserved Major capital investments and projects for the Board is set out opposite.
These are matters that are significant to Approval of the framework for determining the policy and specific the Group as a whole because of their strategic, financial or reputational remuneration of executive Directors implications or consequences.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board was reviewed and updated during 2008 to ensure it remains Approval of Chairman and non-executive Director remuneration appropriate.
Major changes in employee share schemes Figure 1 illustrates how the Board spent its time at the scheduled Board meetings during 2008.
Approval of Board and Board Committees performance evaluation process Activities in 2008 Typically, at each meeting, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Determination of independence of non-executive Directors Director report to the Board and one or two of the main businesses or Approval of corporate governance framework functions also presents an update on the progress of implementing the strategy.
The Board also receives reports from each of the principal Board Approval of division of responsibilities between the Group Chairman Committees and may also receive reports from the Company Secretary on and Group Chief Executive any relevant corporate governance matters.
Rules and procedures for dealing in Barclays securities Fig 1: Board allocation of time 2008 2007 1 6 1 Strategy Formulation and Implementation Monitoring 16 39 2 5 2 Operational and Financial Performance including Risk Management 27 27 3 Governance and Risk 6 9 4 Capital Management 33 5 M&A including 3 4 Lehman Acquisition 13 16 6 Other 5 9 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 159 C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 160 Corporate governance Corporate governance report The Board allocated its time at scheduled Board meetings during additional meetings relating to the capital raisings are taken into account, 2008 as follows: the Board spent 33% of its time on capital management.
The capital raising that was announced on 31st October 2008 in received reports from the Group Chief Executive on strategic progress, response to the new higher capital targets which the FSA set for all UK matters considered by the Executive Committee and competitor Banks was the subject of considerable discussion.
Seven Board meetings activity: and three Board Finance Committee meetings were held during October received reports from the Group Finance Director on the financial to discuss the new requirements and Barclays response.
The Board had position of the Group, which included capital management and liquidity to take some key decisions during this period, in particular: updates throughout 2008: whether or not to accept government money over the weekend received reports from each of the Board Committees: of 11th 12th October 2008: the decision to accelerate the timetable for raising required capital received reports from the Group Risk Director on risk management and from the Group General Counsel on legal risk: in the light of deteriorating market conditions: received reports from businesses or functions on progress against the decision not to pursue a rights issue in the light of practical and strategy, including Barclays Wealth, Barclays Capital, Barclaycard, market constraints: and Brand & Marketing, UK Retail Banking, Investment Banking and the decision to proceed with the Capital Raising as announced.
Investment Management in Asia Pacific and GRCB Emerging Markets: These decisions were only taken by the Board after rigorous discussion approved the full year and half-year results for the Group: and having sought external advice.
They were taken in the long-term received a report on the effectiveness of the Board following the interests of all shareholders.
performance review: Board structure and composition received reports on peer group comparisons of results following the The roles of the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate.
In line with the recommendations of the Code, there is a strong independent release of preliminary and half-year results: element on the Board and at least half the Board are independent nonreceived reports on governance issues and updates on the changes executive Directors.
At the date of this report, the Board is comprised of the in company law: Group Chairman, four executive Directors and 11 non-executive Directors.
The balance of the Board is illustrated by Figure 2. approved the revised fees recommended for non-executive Directors following a benchmarking comparison against our peer group: The Group Chairmans main responsibility is to lead and manage the Board, ensuring that it discharges its legal and regulatory responsibilities received external presentations on shareholder sentiment, including effectively and fully.
The Board has delegated the responsibility for the dayinstitutional perceptions, Group Strategy, Global Retail and Commercial to-day running of the Group to the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Chief Banking, Investment Banking and Investment Management, Executive in turn leads the executive Directors in making and implementing performance, capital management and communications: operational decisions and is responsible for recommending strategy to approved the strategy and Risk Appetite for the Group: the Board.
Although the Board of Directors has collective responsibility for the received reports on franchise health and the Employee Opinion success of the Group, executive Directors are directly responsible for business Survey: and operations, whereas non-executive Directors are responsible for bringing received reports on the economic environment.
independent judgement and scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board.
The non-executive Directors must satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial Adverse market conditions during 2008 led to the Board holding an additional information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are 23 meetings during the year.
These additional meetings discussed the robust.
The Board has the benefit of a broad range of skills, knowledge and impact of market conditions on performance, liquidity, the three capital experience that the non-executive Directors have built up as Directors of other raisings that were undertaken during the year and the acquisition of Lehman companies or business leaders, in government or in academia.
Given the Brothers North American businesses.
Ongoing and regular communication events of 2008 and the continuing uncertainty in the global financial services with the Board was vital during this period, a principle that had been industry, the Board and, in particular, the Board Corporate Governance and established during the potential ABN AMRO acquisition in 2007.
If the Fig 2: Balance of non-executive and executive Directors 2008 1 2 1 Chairman 1 2 Executive Directors 4 3 Independent non-executive Directors 11 3 | 160 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Governance C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 161 Nominations Committee, is considering both the appropriate size and skills During the year, Sir Richard Broadbent attended meetings with a number mix of the Board.
As a financial services business, the Board aims to appoint of our institutional shareholders and shareholder bodies to discuss their non-executive Directors who have the necessary skills and experience required views on the Group.
Sir Richard also received feedback on the Group for a proper understanding of the Groups activities and associated risks.
The Chairmans performance following the annual Board Effectiveness Review Board also aims to have diverse geographical experience represented on the and led discussions with the other non-executive Directors and the Group Board and this is illustrated in Figure 3.
Chief Executive on the Group Chairmans performance.
The Charter of Expectations, which forms part of Corporate Sir Nigel Rudd continued in the role of Deputy Chairman in 2008, Governance in Barclays, includes detailed role profiles for each of the main providing support to the Group Chairman as required in carrying out positions on the Board, including that of the Group Chairman, Deputy his responsibilities.
Chairman, Senior Independent Director and both non-executive and The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is executive Directors.
Responsibilities general to all Directors include: responsible for reviewing the structure, composition and balance of the Board and its principal Committees and recommends to the Board the 1.
Providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Company, within a appointment of any new Directors.
It is important that the Board is framework of prudent and effective controls, which enable risk to be refreshed regularly and the Committee conducts these reviews to ensure assessed and managed.
that there is an appropriate mix of skills and experience on the Board.
Details of the experience and skills of each of the current Directors are set 2.
Approving the Companys strategic aims, ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet out in their biographies on pages 152 to 153.
The length of tenure of the 2 current non-executive Directors is illustrated in Figure 4. its objectives and review management performance.
In line with the recommendations of the Code, all Directors usually 3.
Setting the Companys values and standards and ensuring that its seek re-election every three years and any Directors appointed during obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
the year seek re-election at the next annual general meeting AGM.
However, for the 2009 AGM, as set out in the Group Chairmans letter In addition, non-executive Directors have a responsibility to constructively challenge and develop proposals on strategy whilst scrutinising the to shareholders dated 18th November 2008, all Directors will be seeking re-election, with the exception of Sir Nigel Rudd and Professor Dame performance of management in meeting the Groups strategic objectives.
Following appropriate challenge and debate, the Board expects to reach Sandra Dawson, who will be retiring at the conclusion of the AGM.
Details are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
clear decisions and to provide a framework of support for the executive Directors in their management of the Groups business.
External appointments contribute to an executive Directors ongoing development and experience and executive Directors are permitted to The Charter of Expectations, including role profiles for key Board positions, serve on one other listed company board, in addition to their role at Barclays.
Other appointments may be taken up with the approval of the is available from:www.
All external appointments are considered in line with the Groups policy on Directors Conflicts of Interest and, if appropriate, each Sir Richard Broadbent continued in the role of Senior Independent Director during 2008.
The role of the Senior Independent Director is to: appointment is authorised by the Board.
Further details of the Groups policy on Directors Conflicts of Interest are set out on page 162.
Be available to shareholders if they have concerns relating to matters which contact through the normal channels of Group Chairman, Group Independence of non-executive Directors Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for The Code sets out circumstances that may be relevant to the Board which such contact is inappropriate.
in determining whether each non-executive Director is independent.
Barclays Charter of Expectations sets out specific criteria, which the Board Maintain contact as required with major shareholders to understand considers are essential behaviours, to assess the independence of each their issues and concerns, including attending meetings where non-executive Director, as follows: necessary with shareholders to listen to their views in order to help provides objective challenge to management: develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
is prepared to challenge others assumptions, beliefs or viewpoints Meet with the non-executive Directors without the Group Chairman as necessary for the good of the organisation:.
present at least annually and lead the Board in the ongoing monitoring questions intelligently, debates constructively, challenges rigorously and annual evaluation of the Group Chairman, including and decides dispassionately: communicating results of the evaluation to the Group Chairman.
Fig 3: Geographical mix main experience of non-executive Directors Fig 4: Length of tenure of non-executive Directors 2008 2008 1 1 4 4 1 UK 8 1 0-3 years 4 2 Continental Europe 1 3 2 3-6 years 5 3 3 US 1 3 6-9 years 1 4 Other 1 4 over 9 years 1 2 2 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 161 C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 162 Corporate governance Corporate governance report is willing to stand up and defend their own beliefs and viewpoints Conflicts of Interest in order to support the ultimate good of the organisation: and The following Directors Duties on Conflicts of Interest set out in the has a good understanding of the organisations business and affairs Companies Act 2006 the Act came into force on 1st October 2008: to enable them to properly evaluate the information and responses provided by management.
a duty not to accept benefits from third parties: The Board considers non-executive Director independence on an annual a duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a direct or basis, as part of each Directors performance review.
indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and interests of the company situational conflicts : and subsequently the Board reviewed the independence of non-executive a duty to disclose any interest in a proposed or existing transaction Directors in early 2009 and concluded that each of them continues to or arrangement with the company transactional conflicts.
In determining that each of the non-executive Directors remains independent, the Board considered in Barclays Articles of Association were amended at the 2008 AGM to allow particular the following: the Directors to authorise situational conflicts as permitted by the Act.
Sir Nigel Rudd has served as a non-executive Director since 1996.
It is the responsibility of each Director to comply with the Act and The Code suggests that length of tenure is a factor that should be Directors are required to notify Barclays in writing of any new situational considered when determining whether a Director continues to be or transactional conflicts.
They are also required to consider the interests independent.
As recommended by the Code, it is our policy that of their connected persons in case they amount to an indirect interest.
any Director who serves for more than nine years should seek annual Details of the potential conflict are submitted to the next Board meeting re-election by shareholders and that all Directors subject to re-election and the Directors, excluding the Director to whom the potential conflict should undergo a rigorous performance evaluation.
relates, must carefully consider each potential conflict of interest before it is authorised, if appropriate.
As a result of the annual performance review, the Board concluded that Sir Nigel Rudd continues to demonstrate the essential characteristics of independence expected by the Board.
The Board continues to be regularly refreshed and the Board considers Sir Nigels length of service, and the resulting experience and knowledge of Barclays he has gained, as being especially valuable.
This proved particularly helpful during the difficult market conditions in 2008.
Sir Nigel has stood for re-election annually at each AGM since 2005.
Sir Nigel will, however, retire at the 2009 AGM and is not seeking re-election.
All Directors must report any changes in their circumstances to the Board and the Board reserves the right to terminate the appointment of a non-executive Director if there are any material changes in their circumstances that may conflict with their commitments as a Barclays Director or that may impact on their independence.
Under UK company law, a Director must now seek authorisation before taking up any position with another company that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the Companys interests.
Barclays Articles of Association contain provisions to allow the Directors to authorise situations of potential conflicts of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his her duty under company law.
All existing external appointments for each Director were considered and authorised by the Board in September 2008 and additional external appointments have been authorised at subsequent Board meetings following notification to the Company Secretary.
Each authorisation is set out in a Conflicts Register.
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is responsible for conducting an annual review of the Conflicts Register and confirming to the Board that, where relevant, conflicts have been dealt with appropriately, and that the process for dealing with them is operating effectively.
| 162 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Governance C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 163 Board and Committee Membership and Attendance The table below sets out attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings in 2008.
Board Board HR & Corporate Board RemunerGovernance & Board Scheduled Additional Audit ation Nominations Risk Independent Board Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 7 23 10 524 Group Chairman Marcus Agius OA 7 23 52 Executive Directors John Varley Group Chief Executive ED 7 23 Bob Diamond ED 7 22 Gary Hoffman left the Board 31st August 2008 ED 5 7 2 Chris Lucas ED 7 23 Frits Seegers ED 6 20 Non-executive Directors David Booth I7 22 4 Sir Richard Broadbent Senior Independent Director I7 21 524 Leigh Clifford I7 13 4 Fulvio Conti I7 17 9 Dr Danie Cronj left the Board 24th April 2008 I 2 1 Professor Dame Sandra Dawson I7 21 10 Sir Andrew Likierman I7 18 8 4 Sir Michael Rake I6 21 7 Sir Nigel Rudd Deputy Chairman I7 20 2 Stephen Russell I6 13 10 23 Sir John Sunderland I7 20 41 Patience Wheatcroft I7 22 Key OA Independent on appointment ED Executive Director I Independent non-executive Director Board Committees Board Audit Committee Certain responsibilities of the Board are delegated to Board Committees to assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure independent Stephen Russell Chairman oversight of internal control and risk management.
Membership of Board Fulvio Conti Committees is recommended to the Board by the Board Corporate Professor Dame Sandra Dawson Governance and Nominations Committee, which reviews Committee Sir Andrew Likierman composition and balance regularly to ensure the Committees are Sir Michael Rake refreshed.
All members of principal Board Committees are non-executive Secretary: Lawrence Dickinson Directors, although the Chairman is a member of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee.
Each Board Committees terms of reference set out the specific matters for which delegated authority has been The Board Audit Committee terms of reference are available from the given.
These terms of reference, which are available on our website, are Corporate Governance section at:www.
In addition to the members of the Committee, there are a number of The Board has delegated authority to four principal Board Committees: regular attendees at each meeting.
The Group Chief Executive, Group Board Audit Committee Finance Director, Barclays Internal Audit Director, Group Risk Director, Group General Counsel and the lead external audit partner normally attend all Board Risk Committee scheduled Board Audit Committees.
The Board Audit Committee members Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee usually meet privately before each meeting to raise any concerns with the Chairman of the meeting and they also meet with the external auditors and Board HR and Remuneration Committee the Barclays Internal Audit Director, without management present, at the The number of meetings held and attendance at the Committee meetings end of most Committee meetings.
Sir Andrew Likierman continues to fulfil is set out above in Board and Committee Membership and Attendance.
his role as the financial expert as defined by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of The activities of the Board Committees are set out on the pages 163 to 168.
2002 and, as a result of his accountancy background and his career with HM Treasury, has recent and relevant financial experience as The terms of reference for each of the principal Board Committees recommended by the Code.
Sir Michael Rake will succeed Stephen Russell are available from the Corporate Governance section at: as Chairman of the Committee in March 2009.
Sir Michael has significant www.
audit experience having worked at KPMG from 1972-2007 where he was Chairman of KPMG International from 2002-2007.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 163 C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 164 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Activities in 2008 approved the re-appointment, remuneration and engagement letter Figure 5 illustrates how the Committee allocated its time in 2008. of the Group statutory auditor: During 2008, the Committee: considered the provision of non-audit services by the Group statutory considered the information it would require during the coming year auditor more details can be found in the box on page 165: to enable it to discharge its responsibilities: received reports from the external and internal auditors: considered the significant changes in financial markets and economic monitored the performance of the Internal Audit function: conditions and the impact on the areas of focus for the Committee: reviewed the Global Internal Audit Plan: reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and half-year Results and Interim Management Statements: reviewed the internal control and risk management systems: reviewed in detail the valuations of Barclays Capitals credit market exposures, reviewing mark-to-market valuations and accounting for derivatives and assessing the overall quality of earnings: Fig 5: Board Audit Committee allocation of time reviewed the Groups accounting policies and, in particular, the 2008 2007 accounting for leveraged loans: 71 6 2 1 Control Issues 9 9 considered control issues of Group level significance for different areas 2 Financial Results 36 33 of the business: 3 Internal Audit Matters 11 9 4 External Audit Matters 9 9 received reports on the control environment in each of the following 5 Business Control businesses or functions: Barclays Wealth, Barclays Commercial Bank, Environment 28 25 Western Europe, Global Retail and Commercial Banking IT, Barclaycard, 5 6 Governance and Compliance 6 14 Global Payments, Emerging Markets, BGI, Absa and Barclays Capital: 7 Other 1 1 4 3 reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the Group statutory auditor: American businesses in September 2008, including an initial assessment Board Audit Committee Chairmans Statement We held ten meetings in 2008 and an overview of how we used our of the risks and controls in that business and a report on the impact of the acquisition on financial reporting.
In reviewing the Internal Audit Plan for meetings is set out below.
Our areas of focus in 2008 were dominated by the continuing disruption 2009, we also challenged management to make sure that the Internal Audit function is appropriately resourced for the challenges ahead and to the credit markets and financial services sector as a whole.
In early 2008, we held a separate session of the Committee on accounting for and is directing its attention on areas likely to come under pressure in the expected downturn.
valuation of derivatives and complex financial instruments and also reviewed the Groups valuation methodology for these instruments.
The latter Impairment numbers continue to be closely reviewed by the Committee.
It reviews a paper prepared by the Risk function, which examines impairment comprises trading desk evaluation supported by independent price testing and benchmarking, followed by a review by Finance and Risk and by the on a business-by-business basis.
It examines closely any amendments or overrides to models, compares trends and impairment levels with peers external auditor.
 and seeks independent reassurance from the external auditor.
Our reviews of the control environment in each of our businesses managementstatements,   in 2008 continued to focus on those areas where the Groups business is expanding or which are deemed to be higher risk, including Emerging exposures, .
We also reviewed the controls around our key regulatory programmes, in particular, Sarbanes-Oxley and Basel II, and received .
The  regular reports on Sanctions compliance and Know Your Customer and Anti-Money Laundering controls.
keyassetcategories, movementsinexposures includingsales paydowns and .
TheCommitteereceived The internal and external auditors are evaluated annually.
Feedback on both is sought from key stakeholders in the Group via questionnaires   with the results being presented to and discussed by the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied with the performance of both auditors.
Reassurancewas an external assessment of the internal audit function will be undertaken.
The Committee has recommended to the Board and to shareholders that , , .
The PwC should be re-appointed as the Groups auditors at the AGM on 23rd  April 2009.
We are fully satisfied that PwC provides effective, independent .
TheCommittee challenge to management, which has been crucial in the current difficult  environment, and has provided valued support to the Committee in the  advice given and the clarity of their briefings and reports.
received from other stakeholders through the annual evaluation exercise We also reviewed the controls around Barclays Capitals complex has been positive.
financial instruments, as well as reviewing the overall control environment As Chairman of the Committee, I have liaised as appropriate with the at Barclays Capital.
The Committee has sought to learn lessons from events Chairman of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee, particularly to at our peers, receiving reports on the circumstances surrounding losses draw attention to any specific aspects of the Groups results which I feel he experienced at Socit Gnrale and UBS.
We discussed the overall impact ought to be aware of when determining appropriate levels of compensation.
of market conditions and the challenging financial markets on the remit of , reliableandtimely the Committee and this will help shape our agenda for 2009. .
In the second half of the year, as the financial crisis started to evolve into a global economic downturn, the Committee directed increasing attention at the deepening economic downturn, reviewing the key controls by which consequent risk can be managed.
As a result, impairment measurement, fraud controls, collections activities and day-to-day credit controls and security documentation are receiving increased scrutiny from Stephen Russell the Committee.
During the year we also received additional presentations Chairman of the Board Audit Committee and reports on the impact of the acquisition of the Lehman Brothers North 5th March 2009 | 164 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Governance C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 165 considered the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls Non-Audit Services Policy over financial reporting: The Committee takes seriously its responsibility to put in place received regular reports on Raising Concerns, including safeguards to auditor objectivity and independence.
It has therefore whistleblowing: established a policy on the provision of services by the Groups statutory auditor.
The Policy describes the circumstances in which considered the Fraud Risk Control Framework: and the auditor may be permitted to undertake non-audit work for the reviewed its Terms of Reference to satisfy itself that they enable Group.
The Committee oversees compliance with the Policy and the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities.
considers and approves requests to use the auditor for non-audit work.
Allowable services are pre-approved up to 100,000, or 10,000 in the The Committee also received regular updates during 2008 on: case of certain taxation services.
The Company Secretary and his team Basel II deal with day-to-day administration of the Policy, facilitating requests for approval by the Committee.
The Committee receives a report at MiFID each meeting on the non-audit services provided by the auditor and the Sarbanes-Oxley Policy is reviewed by the Committee annually.
Details of the services that are prohibited and allowed are set out below.
Sanctions compliance Services that are prohibited include: 2 In February 2009, the Committee reviewed its activities in 2008 against its terms of reference and concluded that it had discharged the responsibilities bookkeeping delegated to it under those terms of reference.
design and implementation of financial information systems Approval of financial statements appraisal or valuation services Barclays has a strong governance process in place to support its framework of disclosure controls and procedures.
That process, in which the Board actuarial services Audit Committee plays a key role, is illustrated in Figure 6. internal audit outsourcing The Legal and Technical Review Committee is an accounting, legal and regulatory compliance committee, which is responsible for reviewing management and Human Resource functions the Groups financial reports and disclosures to ensure that they have been broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking services subject to adequate verification and comply with legal and technical requirements.
Meetings are attended by the Groups auditors and US legal, expert and tax services involving advocacy lawyers.
The membership of the Disclosure Committee and its role is set out on page 168.
The membership of the Executive Committee and its Allowable services that the Committee will consider for approval include: role is set out on pages 167 and 168. statutory and regulatory audit services and regulatory non-audit services This governance process is in place to ensure both management and the Board are given sufficient opportunity to review and challenge the other attest and assurance services Groups financial statements and other significant disclosures before they accountancy advice and training are made public.
It also provides assurance for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director when providing certifications as required under risk management and controls advice the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and recommended by the Turnbull Guidance transaction support on Internal Control.
Further details of the Groups system of internal control and an assessment of its effectiveness may be found on page 187. taxation services business support and recoveries translation services Fig 6: Approval of financial statements Legal and Technical Disclosure Executive Board Audit Board Committee Review Committee Committee Committee Reviews and Reviews Disclosure Receives a report on Approves results Reviews results announcements and agrees the Groups Committee conclusions the review of Group announcements disclosures to ensure and provides further internal controls and the Annual Report the Annual Report for technical accounting, they are appropriate challenge as needed for publication and Reviews the financial and correct ensures relevant legal and regulatory Agrees results statements prior to compliance disclosures have Reviews and announcements approval by the Board been made Reports its evaluates the and the Annual Report, Reviews Disclosure conclusions to Groups disclosure subject to Board Committee the Disclosure controls and and Board Audit conclusions and Committee procedures Committee approval provides further Reports conclusions Group Chief Executive challenge as to Executive Officer and Group necessary Committee and Finance Director Board Audit take opportunity to Committee challenge Executive Committee members Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 165 C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 166 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Board Risk Committee Chairmans Statement Board Risk Committee 2008 was a challenging year for risk management and this was reflected Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman in the work of the Committee, which is detailed below.
Particular areas David Booth worthy of note were: Dr Danie Cronj to 24th April 2008 Sir Andrew Likierman The Committee monitored the Groups sub-prime exposures Stephen Russell throughout the year.
The reduction in limits and scale of the sub-prime business in 2007 reduced the impact of the crisis, although substantial Secretary: Lawrence Dickinson write-downs were still required during 2008, reflecting a further deterioration in the markets and underlying performance of the assets.
The Board Risk Committee terms of reference are available from the The Committee also monitored the Groups exposure to other areas Corporate Governance section at:www.
affected by the crisis, including other asset-backed securities, commercial mortgages and monoline insurers.
In addition to the Members of the Committee, all meetings are usually attended by the Group Finance Director and Group Risk Director.
Barclays The Committee reviewed and compared the write-downs being taken Internal Audit Director, Group General Counsel and Barclays external in the sub-prime and related areas with those being taken by the auditor, as well as other senior executives, also attend meetings of the industry.
Board Risk Committee, where appropriate.
The Committee monitored carefully the Groups overall risk exposure The Board recognises that risk is a key parameter for the business.
in the light of the anticipated worsening in economic conditions and The Board Risk Committee provides monitoring and oversight of all Barclays reviewed management plans to manage and mitigate the effects of risk activities.
During 2008, the Committee received presentations and the expected downturn in multiple markets.
updates on key aspects of the external market conditions to ensure it was able to maintain an appropriate level of oversight and report effectively The Committee also monitored the capital position throughout the to the Board.
year relative to regulatory requirements and the Groups overall risk appetite.
Several steps were taken throughout the year to strengthen Activities in 2008 the capital base prior to the events of October 2008 when the regulator The Committee met four times in 2008 and Figure 7 shows how the changed the capital requirements for banks, requiring a further and Committee allocated its time at those meetings.
During 2008, the Committee: substantial capital raising.
received regular reports on, and considered, Risk Appetite and the The Committee played an active role in informing Board debate about Groups risk profile, including key indicators for Risk Appetite, Group Risk Appetite and capital planning for 2009.
Impairment, Retail Credit Risk, Wholesale Credit Risk, Market Risk, Financial Crime, Operational Risk and Economic Capital: reviewed at each meeting updates on asset backed securities and leveraged credit markets, including the Groups exposures to sub-prime and Alt-A markets, monoline insurers and leveraged loan underwriting positions: reviewed updates on liquidity risk: Sir Richard Broadbent reviewed risk trends and risk management in GRCB Emerging Markets Chairman of the Board Risk Committee and South Africa: 5th March 2009 received regular Forward Risk Trends reports, which set out the internal and external indicators that are showing signs of strain: reviewed the internal control framework: In March 2009, the Committee will review its activities in 2008 against its terms of reference.
examined the risk control framework, and approved Group policies More information on risk management and the internal control including the trading book policy, large exposures policy, liquidity policy, framework can be found in the Risk management report on pages 69 retail and wholesale credit impairment policies and the Groups principal to 149. risks policy: reviewed Group-wide stress testing scenarios and results: reviewed in greater detail the process around setting annual Risk Appetite to establish the effectiveness of the process in responding to significant changes in economic and market conditions: reviewed the programme of actions being taken Group-wide to mitigate risk in view of deteriorating economic conditions in our major markets, such as the UK, US, South Africa and Spain: reviewed the Risk Appetite for the Group for 2009 and made recommendations to the Board: and.
received updates on Basel II.
Fig 7: Board Risk Committee allocation of time 2008 2007 51 4 3 1 Risk Profile Risk Appetite including capital management 55 40 2 Key Risk Issues including ABS and Leveraged Credit Markets 35 40 3 Internal Control Risk Policies 4 3 4 Regulatory Frameworks 5 12 2 5 Other 1 5 | 166 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Governance C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 167 Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Board HR and Remuneration Committee Marcus Agius Chairman Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman Sir Richard Broadbent Marcus Agius Sir Nigel Rudd Leigh Clifford Stephen Russell Sir John Sunderland Sir John Sunderland Secretary: Patrick Gonsalves Secretary: Lawrence Dickinson The Board HR and Remuneration Committee terms of reference are The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee terms available from the Corporate Governance section at: of reference are available from the Corporate Governance section at: www.
Additional information on the role and activities of the Committee can The meetings are also attended by the Group Chief Executive.
be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 171 to 186, including the Groups revised philosophy on remuneration, an explanation of the Groups Activities in 2008 remuneration arrangements and a description of the framework for future 2 Figure 8 shows how the Committee allocated its time at its meetings decisions in this area.
During 2008, the Committee: Activities in 2008 reviewed Board and Board Committee composition to ensure the Figure 9 shows how the Committee allocated its time at its meetings in right mix of skills and experience are present: 2008.
The Committee held additional meetings in November 2008 and monitored the progress of the action plan arising from the 2007 Board January 2009, as a result of the rapidly changing economic environment Effectiveness Review and oversaw the conduct of the 2008 Board and the intense scrutiny from regulators and other interested parties that Effectiveness Review: the issue of remuneration has received.
reviewed the corporate governance disclosures for the 2007 Annual During 2008 the Committee: Report and considered the proposed disclosures for 2008: continued to review the compensation frameworks in place for each reviewed and updated Corporate Governance in Barclays and the area of the Group: Charter of Expectations: and reviewed executive compensation: reviewed succession plans for the Executive Committee and the position of Group Chief Executive.
reviewed the Groups approach to remuneration in light of market conditions: The Committee also received updates on: the status of the Companies Act 2006 and, in particular, the new approved the Pensions Strategy and other pension matters: statutory statement of Directors Duties on Conflicts of Interest.
reviewed global staff benefits: During 2008, the Committee reviewed the composition of the Board monitored the implementation of the talent agenda: and its principal Committees at each of its meetings.
Following those reviewed the Groups Health and Safety and Diversity and Inclusion deliberations, the Committee recommended to the Board that Sir Michael performance: Rake succeed Stephen Russell as Chairman of the Board Audit Committee with effect from March 2009.
No new Directors were appointed to the considered incentive funding for 2008 for each main business area: Board during 2008, other than Sir Michael Rake and Patience Wheatcroft, reviewed, current and future, Group and business long-term incentive who joined the Board with effect from 1st January 2008. arrangements: and Given that Sir Nigel Rudd and Professor Dame Sandra Dawson will be held discussions with external advisers to the Committee on a range retiring from the Board at the 2009 AGM and Stephen Russell will be retiring of issues, including obtaining market data on remuneration levels in in October 2009 on completion of nine years service, the Committee also specified markets.
discussed both Board size and future Board composition and, in particular, The Committee received valuable support and advice from its given the continuing crisis in the world financial services industry, the type of skills and experience required in new non-executive Directors.
independent advisers, Towers Perrin MGMC and Kepler Associates.
In early 2009, the Committee concluded that a non-executive Director with experience of institutional fund management should be sought and, Management Executive Committee with the assistance of external search consultants, Simon Fraser was identified as a candidate with the desired experience.
He met with Under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive, the executive Directors are responsible for managing the Groups business and making and members of the Board Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee and his appointment was recommended to the Board, who approved his executing operational decisions.
The Executive Committee supports the Group Chief Executive and it meets every fortnight to discuss strategy appointment as a Director.
Simon will join the Board on 10th March 2009, subject to regulatory approvals.
development and policies to recommend to the Board.
The Executive Committee is also responsible for implementing approved strategy and Pursuant to an agreement entered into between Barclays and China Development Bank CDB in August 2007 for the subscription of Barclays is supported by other Committees, including the Disclosure Committee.
ordinary shares, CDB retain the right to nominate a non-executive Director to the Board of Barclays but did not take up this right during 2008.
In January 2009, the Committee reviewed its activities in 2008 against its terms of reference and concluded that it had discharged the responsibilities delegated to it under those terms of reference.
Fig 8: Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Fig 9: Board HR and Remuneration Committee allocation of time allocation of time 2008 2007 2008 2007 4 1 5 1 2 3 3 1 Corporate Governance 1 HR Matters including Matters 52 23 pensions, excluding talent 6 2 Board and Committee 2 Talent Management 3 6 Composition including 3 Incentive Reward 58 61 succession planning 38 46 4 Remuneration other, 3 Board Effectiveness 7 20 including compensation 4 4 Other 3 11 philosophy 30 17 5 Other 3 16 2 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 167 C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 168 Corporate governance Corporate governance report expectations and acknowledged that they are accountable to shareholders Executive Committee for their stewardship of the Group during the exceptional events of 2008.
From the results of the 2008 evaluation, action points and issues that John Varley Chairman were discussed included: Bob Diamond Chris Lucas continued focus on the Boards calendar of business to ensure that nonFrits Seegers critical items are removed or kept to a minimum, thereby ensuring that sufficient time can be allocated to items fundamental to the success of the Group: Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee is chaired by Chris Lucas, the Group Finance refinements to the Boards calendar of business, including additional Director.
Members include the Company Secretary, Group General time to be spent on items such as compensation strategy and Counsel, Director, Investor Relations, Group Risk Director, Barclays succession planning: Corporate Affairs Director, Group Financial Controller and Barclays the overall size and composition of the Board: and Treasurer.
The Committee: refinements to the process for evaluating the performance of individual considers and reviews the preliminary and half-year results, Annual Directors.
Report Annual Report on Form 20F and the Annual Review: and The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee has considers Interim Management Statements released to the Stock agreed an action plan to progress improvements in 2009.
In terms of individual Director performance, the Group Chairman The Committee also considers the content, accuracy and tone of held private meetings with non-executive Directors in early 2009 so that significant other announcements that are proposed to be made in individual and general results could be discussed.
Development plans accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
relating to their own individual performance were agreed.
The Senior The Committee reports to the Executive Committee and also reports Independent Director met privately with the other non-executive Directors to the Board Audit Committee, documenting its conclusions about the and the Group Chief Executive to discuss feedback he received on the effectiveness of the design and operation of the disclosure controls and Group Chairmans performance.
These results were then shared with procedures.
This forms part of the combined assurance given to the the Group Chairman.
Board Audit Committee together with the report on the Turnbull Review of Internal Controls recommended by the Code.
Director Development and Business Awareness A comprehensive development and awareness programme is in place Board Effectiveness for Directors.
This comprises: Performance Review an induction programme, when they join the Board: The Code recommends that an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is conducted annually.
The evaluation in 2007 briefings on the business of Barclays: and was independently facilitated by Egon Zehnder International.
All Directors briefings on external technical matters.
were sent a questionnaire to complete and return to Egon Zehnder International and these were discussed in individual interviews, which Induction included peer review.
The following actions were agreed for 2008: All new Directors receive an induction presentation, which explains their responsibilities as a Director of a global, listed company and provides an minor enhancements around the form and content of Board papers overview of the Group and its businesses.
An information pack, that gives and presentations: and details of the disclosures that Directors are obliged to make to the refining the Board calendar of business.
Company to comply with various laws and regulations, is also provided to each new Director.
A personal induction programme is scheduled with The 2008 evaluation was again independently facilitated by Egon Zehnder each new Director so that they can further acquaint themselves with the International and took the form of detailed questionnaires, which were Group and its businesses.
Each new Director attends sessions with each completed by each Director, individual interviews and peer evaluation of the executive Directors and the heads of the main Group functions, of fellow Directors.
As in previous years, the evaluation covered the which includes opportunities to visit operational sites to meet with following areas: senior management and employees.
The second part of their induction Group performance: programme includes additional sessions with the executive Directors and senior managers from each of the Groups main business units to provide Strategy and performance objectives: the new Director with detailed and in-depth understanding of those Reporting to shareholders stakeholders: businesses.
The sessions focus on the challenges, opportunities and risks that are faced by each business unit.
Sir Michael Rake and Patience Structure, people, succession planning and remuneration: Wheatcroft undertook their induction programmes during 2008.
Decision-making process: In 2008, non-executive Directors were asked to complete a questionnaire and give feedback on topics on which they would like to Information flows: receive additional briefings.
Two in-depth briefing sessions were arranged Board structure and composition: during 2008 on impairment recognition and forecasting and on Barclays Capitals traded products, including asset-backed securities, credit default Board roles and responsibilities: swaps and collateralised debt obligations.
Board and Management relationships: The Board and the Board Audit and Board Risk Committees received further briefings to ensure they were kept up to date with the changing Board meetings: and global economic conditions, including updates on capital management, Board Committees.
presentations on asset-backed securities and liquidity risk, mark-tomarket valuations and briefing material to support the various capital The results of the evaluation were presented to the Board in raising proposals and acquisition of the Lehman Brothers North December 2008.
The results from the overall review showed a continuation American businesses.
of the five-year trend of improving scores and the Board concluded that the Board and the principal Board Committees continue to operate Barclays businesses and operations effectively in terms of communication, information flows and Directors During 2008, one Board meeting was held off-site.
The Board met in participation and engagement, particularly during the period of difficult China in September and received presentations on the economic and market conditions in 2008.
The Directors recognised however, and were political outlook in China and met key Barclays staff working in the disappointed, that Group performance has not met shareholder Asia-Pacific region.
| 168 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Governance C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 169 Group Chief Executive, John Varley, helped to launch UK National has developed corporate governance guidelines, Corporate Governance in Barclays, which have been approved and adopted by the Board.
Branch Week by visiting the Coventry High Street branch.
During the course of the week, around 400 senior executives from the Group went Code of Ethics back to the floor to experience first hand the successes and challenges The NYSE Rules require that domestic US companies adopt and disclose a colleagues in the branches are facing.
Each day had a theme including code of business conduct and ethics for Directors, officers and employees.
raising the profile of Barclays product range, employee benefits, the Rather than a single consolidated code as envisaged in the NYSE Rules, importance of customer service, personal development and charity we have a number of values based business conduct and ethics policies fundraising.
A number of Directors participated and worked alongside which apply to all employees.
In addition, we have adopted a Code of Ethics cashiers, personal bankers and co-ordinators for the day.
for the Group Chief Executive and senior financial officers as required by John Varley also spent time giving presentations to colleagues on the the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
He kept colleagues up to date on how Shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans market conditions were affecting Barclays and the decisions the Board was taking in respect of the capital raising options that were available.
The NYSE listing standards require that shareholders must be given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material revisions All colleagues were invited to attend the presentations in person or via conference call and John Varley answered questions raised by colleagues to those plans.
We comply with UK requirements, which are similar to the NYSE standards.
However, the Board does not explicitly take into from around the world.
consideration the NYSEs detailed definition of what are considered 2 External matters material revisions.
Directors are regularly briefed on market opinion and receive copies of analyst research and press commentary.
Further briefing material on Relations with Shareholders market conditions was sent to Directors during 2008 and Directors Institutional investors continue to receive relevant publications to keep them up to date A key priority for the Board in 2008 was communicating with shareholders, with changing market opinion.
Directors are invited to attend results particularly ahead of the General Meeting in November 2008, and also presentations to meet with analysts and investors to enhance their afterwards in order to provide further details to shareholders on the key awareness of market sentiment.
decision points during the capital raising process.
In the normal course of events, the Board aims to keep shareholders up to date and informed Statement on US Corporate Governance Standards about how the Company is performing and its strategy, whilst ensuring The statement required by NYSE is set out below.
that it listens to the opinions of major shareholders and takes their views Director independence on board.
Executive Directors and senior executives hold group and one to one meetings with major investors to ensure we are communicating NYSE Rules require the majority of the Board to be independent.
The Code requires at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman effectively.
Analyst research notes are distributed to Directors and our corporate brokers provide regular feedback to the Board.
The Investor to be independent.
The NYSE Rules contain detailed tests for determining whether a Director is independent, whereas the Code requires the Board Relations team organise roadshows, seminars, conferences, presentations and other activities that enable the Directors to interact with investors.
to determine whether each Director is independent in character and judgement and sets out criteria that may be relevant to that determination.
The Group Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary conduct a series of meetings with the corporate governance We follow the Codes recommendations as well as developing best practices among other UK public companies.
The independence of representatives of our major institutional shareholders ahead of each AGM.
Meetings were held with our major institutional shareholders to our non-executive Directors is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis and it takes into account the guidance in the Code and the criteria we discuss the capital raising proposals.
have established for determining independence, which are described Private shareholders on pages 161 and 162.
The Board has also tried to keep private shareholders up to date with Board Committees information about the capital raising proposals during 2008.
In June 2008, We have a Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and the Group Chairman sent a letter to shareholders regarding the Open a Board HR and Remuneration rather than Compensation Committee, Offer, which took place in July.
Personalised forms were also sent to shareholders with a question and answer booklet to help explain both of which are broadly similar in purpose and constitution to the Committees required by the NYSE Rules and whose terms of reference the details of the Open Offer and how to complete the forms.
Further documents were available on the Groups website and sent to comply with the Codes requirements.
As the Group Chairman was independent on appointment, the Code permits him to chair the Board shareholders on request.
In November, the Group Chairman sent a letter to shareholders and Notice of General Meeting, which set out the details Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and be a member of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee.
Except for these of the Capital Raising that required shareholder approval.
A follow-up letter was also sent to shareholders to inform them of developments and to appointments, both Committees are composed solely of non-executive Directors, whom the Board has determined to be independent.
We follow advise shareholders that all Directors would offer themselves for reelection at the 2009 AGM and that the executive Directors had all agreed the Code recommendation that a majority of the Nominations Committee should be independent non-executive Directors, whereas the NYSE Rules to waive their bonus for 2008.
An open letter to shareholders, clients, customers and colleagues from the Group Chairman and Group Chief state that the Committee must be composed entirely of independent Directors.
We comply with the NYSE Rules regarding the obligation to have Executive was released to the London Stock Exchange on 26th January 2009 ahead of the publication of the annual results announcement on a Board Audit Committee that meets the requirements of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act, including the requirements relating to the 9th February 2009.
The change in the law that allows us to communicate electronically independence of Committee members.
In April 2008, we made an Annual Written Affirmation of our compliance with these requirements to the with shareholders has enabled us to use less paper, which benefits the environment and lowers distribution costs for the Group.
The Code also requires us to have a Board Audit Committee comprised solely of independent non-executive Directors.
However, we documents are available electronically as soon as they are published but shareholders can still receive communications in paper format if they wish.
follow the Code recommendations, rather than the NYSE Rules regarding the responsibilities of the Board Audit Committee, although both are This year we will continue to post the Annual Review, Notice of Meeting and proxy forms to all shareholders.
We also have a Board Risk Committee, comprised of independent non-executive Directors, which considers and discusses We encourage shareholders to hold their shares in Barclays Sharestore, where shares are held electronically in a cost-effective and policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management.
Shareholders can use our e-view service to receive Corporate Governance Guidelines their shareholder documents electronically and they can also use this The NYSE Rules require domestic US companies to adopt and disclose service to get immediate access to information relating to their personal corporate governance guidelines.
There is no equivalent recommendation in shareholding and dividend history.
E-view participants can also change the Code but the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee their details and dividend mandates online and receive dividend tax vouchers electronically.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 169 C14170 Barclays B 157-170. qxp:B File 10 6 3 09 01:30 Page 170 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Annual General Meeting General Meeting The 2008 AGM was held on 24th April 2008 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre in London.
In accordance with best practice, all resolutions were considered on a poll and the results were made available on our website the same day.
52.9% of the shares in issue were voted and all resolutions were approved.
All Directors are encouraged to attend the AGM and are available to answer shareholder questions.
All Directors attended the 2008 AGM, with the exception of Dr Danie Cronj, who was retiring from the Board on that day.
A class meeting of ordinary shareholders was also held on 24th April 2008 for shareholders to consider the resolution of the AGM that created new preference share classes.
50.5% of the shares in issue were voted and the resolution was approved by shareholders.
A general meeting GM was held on 24th November 2008, at ExCel London, where shareholders were asked to approve resolutions in connection with the Capital Raising proposals.
60.8% of the shares in issue were voted on a poll and all resolutions were approved.
The results of the poll were made available on our website on the same day.
The Group Chairman, all of the executive Directors and four non-executive Directors, including the Senior Independent Director, Deputy Chairman and Board Audit Committee Chairman, attended the GM.
The 2009 AGM will be held on 23rd April 2009 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre in London.
The Notice of Meeting is enclosed with this Annual Report as a separate document.
The resolutions will be considered on a poll and the results will be available on our website on 23rd April 2009.
Signed on behalf of the Board Marcus Agius Group Chairman 5th March 2009 | 170 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
