Statement of corporate governance Application of principles of good corporate governance There is, and historically there has been, throughout the company and the group, a commitment to high standards of corporate governance.
The directors continue to develop procedures which ensure that, where the board considers it appropriate, the Beazley group will comply with the Combined Code on corporate governance.
Compliance with code provisions The board confirms that the company and the group has, save for the composition of the board, complied with the provisions set out in the Combined Code for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The board intends during the course of 2009 to seek to abide by the provisions of the Combined Code and have a majority of non-executive directors on its board, provided that this can be achieved without signicantly impairing the underwriting experience of its board.
The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good governance and the statements set out below describe how the principles identied in the revised Combined Code have been applied by the group.
The board The board consists of a non-executive chairman, Jonathan Agnew, together with four independent non-executive directors, of which Andy Pomfret is the senior non-executive director, and six executive directors, of which Andrew Horton is chief executive.
All four of the non-executive directors, who have been appointed for specified terms, are considered by the board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
Andrew Beazley indicated that he wished to step down as chief executive during the year.
The nomination committee carried out a review of both internal and external candidates to identify a suitable replacement.
Two internal candidates presented to the nomination committee in June 2008 and Andrew Horton was selected as the preferred candidate.
He assumed the role of chief executive on 1 September 2008.
Subsequently, the nomination committee undertook a search for a new group finance director.
Again both internal and external candidates were considered and it was announced on 14 November that Martin Bride, currently chief financial officer of the UK Life business at Zurich Financial Services, is to be appointed group finance director.
It is expected that he will join Beazley in April 2009.
Johnny Rowell left the company on 11 December 2008 and Marty Becker resigned with effect from 31 October 2008.
The appointment of further non-executive directors is being considered.
Biographies of current board members appear on page 48 of this report.
These indicate the high levels and range of business experience that are essential to manage a business of this size and complexity.
A well dened operational and management structure is in place, and terms of reference exist for all board committees.
The roles and responsibilities of senior executives and key members of staff are clearly dened.
The full board meets at least five times each year and more frequently where business needs require.
The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision including, inter alia: statutory matters: approval of financial statements and dividends: appointments and terminations of directors, ofcers and auditors: appointments of committees and setting of terms of reference: review of group performance against budgets: approving of risk management strategy and material contracts: and the determining of authority levels within which management is required to operate.
There is an agreed principle that directors may take independent professional advice if necessary at the companys expense, on the basis that the expense is reasonable.
This is in addition to the access which every director has to the company secretary.
The secretary is charged by the board with ensuring that board procedures are followed.
To enable the board to function effectively and directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specic matters.
The composition of and appointments to the board of both executive and non-executive directors are considered by the nomination committee.
The recommendations of the nomination committee are ultimately made to the full board, which considers them before any change is made.
The remuneration committee considers any remuneration package of executive directors before it is offered to a potential appointee.
The members of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are set out below.
com Any director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the companys articles of association, to retire and seek re-election by shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
The articles also require that one third of the directors retire by rotation each year and seek re-election at the annual general meeting, and the directors required to retire are those in ofce longest since their previous re-election.
In addition, each director is required to retire at least once in any three-year period.
Full details of directors remuneration and a statement of the companys remuneration policy are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 54 to 63.
The members of the remuneration committee and the principal terms of reference of the committee appear on page 52.
Meetings with non-executive directors The chairman holds meetings as required with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
Board performance evaluation In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code, the board undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors in 2007 and the issues identied and recommendations from the evaluation, in particular in relation to the composition of the board have been implemented.
A further evaluation will be carried out in 2009.
Individual attendance by directors at regular meetings of the board and of committees Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Investment No.
attended J G W Agnew 5 5 6 6 4 4 A F Beazley 5 5 M Becker 4 3 7 5 4 4 3 2 J D Fishburn 5 5 8 6 4 4 6 5 N H Furlonge 5 5 J G Gray 5 5 A G K Hamilton 5 5 8 8 4 4 5 5 D A Horton 5 5 4 4 D Jones 5 5 4 4 6 4 N P Maidment 5 5 4 4 A D Pomfret 5 5 8 8 4 4 6 5 J G B Rowell 4 2 C A Washbourn 5 4 Gordon Hamilton and Marty Becker were appointed to the nominations committee on 12 May 2008.
Jonny Rowell resigned on 3 October 2008 and Marty Becker resigned on 31 October 2008.
Board committees The company has established properly constituted audit, remuneration and nomination committees of the board.
Audit committee The audit committee currently comprises Andy Pomfret committee chairman, Dudley Fishburn and Gordon Hamilton.
Marty Becker was also a member of this committee and attended meetings until his resignation on 31 October 2008.
The committee regularly meets without any executive management being present and the committee holds regular meetings with the head of internal audit, and with the external auditor.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 51 Statement of corporate governance continued The committees main objectives are, inter alia: to monitor the integrity of the companys financial statements and any other formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance: review significant financial reporting judgments contained in them, before submission to, and approval by, the board, and before clearance by the external auditors: review the companys internal financial controls and the companys internal control and risk management systems: approve the appointment or termination of appointment, of the head of internal audit and monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function: and review the arrangements by which employees of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The committee also reviews any matters raised by the auditors and internal audit.
The chief executive, the finance director, and the risk management director are invited to attend part of each meeting of this committee.
The external auditors are invited to attend meetings regularly.
The auditors have unrestricted access to the members of the audit committee, and the committee ensures that meetings are used as an open avenue of communication between compliance, internal audit, the external auditors and the board.
The committee receives regular updates and monitors the status of actions taken by management to address issues raised by both external and internal audit.
Risk management provides reports to the audit committee on the risk assessment and the selfcertication from risk owners of the operating effectiveness of internal controls.
The audit committee undertakes an annual appraisal of its performance in relation to best practice.
Findings of this review are formally reported to the board.
In respect of any rm of external auditors and consulting actuaries which may be appointed by any group company, the audit committee is also responsible for recommending their appointment and termination: recommending their terms of reference: receiving regular reports, independently of management where necessary: determining their independence: monitoring their performance: and approving their fees.
Following a recommendation from the audit committee, the board has adopted a policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
The objective is to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors objectivity.
The policy specically disallows certain activities to be provided by the auditor such as bookkeeping and accounting services, internal actuarial service, internal audit outsourcing services and executive remuneration services.
The policy requires pre-approval for all material other services such as due diligence assistance, tax services and advice on accounting and audit matters.
The aim is to limit the total spend on non-audit services to a maximum of the annual audit fee unless it is deemed to be in the shareholders interest from an efficiency and effectiveness point of view.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review is disclosed on page 88.
All of these are considered by the audit committee not to affect the auditors independence or objectivity.
The committees terms of reference are published on the companys website.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee comprises Dudley Fishburn as chairman, together with Andy Pomfret, Gordon Hamilton, Dan Jones and Gordon Hamilton.
The work of the remuneration committee is covered further in the directors remuneration report on pages 54 to 63.
Copies of executive directors service contracts and the terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys ofce during normal business hours.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are published on the companys website.
Nomination committee The nomination committee consists of Jonathan Agnew as chairman, together with Dudley Fishburn, Andy Pomfret, Gordon Hamilton and Dan Jones.
Gordon Hamilton and Marty Becker joined the committee in May 2008 prior to the discussions regarding the appointment of a new chief executive.
Marty Becker left this committee following his resignation from the company on 31 October 2008.
It meets as required and makes recommendations to the board on all board appointments, including the selection of non-executive directors.
The terms of reference of the nomination committee are published on the companys website.
com Shareholder communication The company places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The full report and accounts and the interim report will be available from www.
com and, on request, will be mailed to shareholders and to other parties who have an interest in the groups performance.
The company responds to individual letters from shareholders and maintains a separate investor relations centre within the existing www.
com website as a repository for all investor relations matters.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders as well as general presentations, attended by executive directors after the preliminary and interim results.
The board is advised of any specic comments from institutional investors to enable them to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put forward questions at the companys annual general meeting.
The company has the authority within its articles to communicate with its shareholders using electronic and website communication and to allow for electronic proxy voting.
Audit and internal control The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in connection with the accounts are explained on pages 66 to 67, and the statement of directors on going concern on page 64.
The board confirms that there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any compliance issues and significant risks faced by the group.
The internal capital assessment process maps risks to capital requirements through review and challenge and sign-off by the board.
The directors are responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives within parameters set by the board.
The key procedures that the directors have established to ensure that internal controls are effective and commensurate with a group of this size include the day-to-day supervision of the business by the executive directors.
Other internal control procedures and reviews for effectiveness by the board include the: t 1SFQBSBUJPO PG TUBOEBSE NPOUIMZ RVBSUFSMZ BOE QFSJPEJD SFQPSUJOH BT QSFTDSJCFE CZ UIF CPBSE GPS SFWJFX CZ UIF WBSJPVT group committees: t 3FWJFX PG mOBODJBM PQFSBUJPOBM BOE DPNQMJBODF SFQPSUT GSPN NBOBHFNFOU BOE t 3FWJFX PG BOZ TJHOJmDBOU JTTVFT BSJTJOH GSPN UIF FYUFSOBM BVEJUT Further information on the role of the audit committee is set out above.
The committee, on behalf of the board, approves the internal audit project plan and any subsequent changes.
Internal audit reports directly to the audit committee, whose terms of reference include approving the appointment or termination of appointment, of the head of internal audit and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function.
Further information on risk management at Beazley is contained on pages 78 to 85.
