Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of corporate relates to the combination of the roles of the chairman and governance.
The Board has put in place a framework for chief executive does not apply as the Company has no corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an executive directors.
The Directors biographies, on page 16, investment trust and which enables the Company to comply demonstrate a breadth of investment, commercial and with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the professional experience.
Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council The Directors retire by rotation at every third Annual General in July 2003 and revised in June 2006.
Additionally, as the Meeting and any Directors appointed to the Board since the Company is a member of the Association of Investment previous Annual General Meeting also retire and stand for Companies the AIC, the Board has taken account of the election.
The Director retiring by rotation in accordance with recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate the Companys Articles of Association is Mr Lea.
The Board Governance the AIC Code which complements the has considered the position of Mr Lea, as part of the Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice evaluation process, and believes that it would be in the for investment trust companies.
The Board has made the Companys best interests to propose him for re-election at appropriate disclosures in this report to ensure the Company the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, given his material meets its continuing obligations.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with Any Director who has served on the Board for more than nine the relevant provisions contained within the Combined Code years will be subject to annual re-election.
The Directors throughout this accounting period, except as explained support a planned and progressive renewing of the Board.
below, and this statement describes how these principles of governance are applied to the Company.
None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
The terms of their appointment are detailed in a The Board letter sent to them when they join the Board.
These letters During the year the Board consisted of five non-executive are available for inspection at the registered office of the Directors, all but one of whom was independent of the Company and will be available at the Annual General Companys Investment Manager.
When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he all of the Directors, with the exception of Mr Barby, to sit on the is provided with all relevant information regarding the Companys various committees.
Mr Barby, as a nonCompany and his duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In independent Director due to his previous employment by the addition, a new Director will also spend some time with Investment Manager, did not sit on the Audit & Management representatives of the Investment Manager whereby he will Engagement Committee or the Remuneration Committee.
become familiar with the various processes which the However, the rest of the Board agreed that this relationship did Manager considers necessary for the performance of its not affect his judgement in discussions relating to the duties and responsibilities to the Company.
The Companys Investment Manager and that his extensive experience of the policy is to encourage Directors to keep up to date and attend investment trust sector was, and still is, of material value to training courses on matters which are directly relevant to the Company.
their involvement with the Company.
The Directors also receive regular briefings from, amongst others, the auditors Mr Barby was employed by the Investment Manager until and Company Secretary regarding any proposed December 2003.
The AIC Code states that no more than one developments or changes in laws or regulations that could current or recent employee of or to the Manager should serve affect the Company and or the Directors.
A recent employee is generally taken to mean a director having been in the Managers The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in employment within the last five years.
As Mr Barby retired in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge December 2003, the Board has considered his independence its duties.
Strategic issues and all operational matters of a and concluded that he is now independent as he has no other material nature are determined by the Board.
links to the Investment Manager.
The Company has maintained appropriate Directors Liability Mr Sage has acted as the Senior Independent Director Insurance cover throughout the year.
The provision of the Combined Code which 26 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc discussed by the Board and it was agreed that the current Boards responsibilities composition of the Board reflected a suitable mix of skills The Board meets at least five times a year and between these and experience and that the Board, as a whole, and its meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Committees were functioning effectively.
The Board reserves to itself decisions relating to the determination of investment policy, any change in Delegation of responsibilities investment strategy, strategic gearing policy, policy on the The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility: buy back of shares, whether to hold shares in treasury, and entering into any material contracts.
The Board also sets Management and administration investment parameters, such as the acquisition or disposal The management of the investment portfolio and the of substantial interests and the maximum amount that can administration of the Company have been delegated to the be invested in unquoted investments.
In addition, changes Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager, operating relating to the Groups capital structure, approval of circulars under guidelines determined by the Board, has direct to shareholders and listing particulars, relevant press responsibility for the decisions relating to the day to day releases and any significant change in accounting policies or running of the Company and is accountable to the Board for practices must also be approved by the Board.
A formal the investment, financial and operating performance of the schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Company.
The Board has final investment authority on Board has been defined.
Custody and settlement services are The Directors also have access to the advice and services of provided by The Bank of New York Europe Limited BNYE, the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for a subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon.
ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it The Board has delegated the exercise of voting rights complies with applicable rules and regulations.
Where attaching to the securities held in the portfolio to the necessary, in the furtherance of their duties, the Directors Investment Manager.
Details of the Investment Managers may seek independent professional advice at the expense of voting policy are set out on page 20. the Company.
The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company Committees of the Board keeps proper accounting records which disclose with As the Board is small and comprises only non-executive reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Directors it fulfils the function of the Nomination Committee Company and which enable it to ensure that the financial which will meet when necessary to select and propose statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
It is the suitable candidates for appointment.
When looking for a new Boards responsibility to present a balanced and Director, the Board will assess the size, balance and profile understandable assessment, which extends to interim and of the Board as a whole, to identify any areas that need other price-sensitive public reports.
Due to the specialist nature of the investment mandate, and the difficulty in finding new Directors with The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of knowledge of the mining sector, the existing Directors will try the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention to identify suitable individuals from their range of contacts, and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
although other sources, including external search consultants, may also be used as required.
Performance evaluation The Board formally reviews performance on a regular basis A separately chaired Audit & Management Engagement and an appraisal system has been agreed for the evaluation Committee is made up of the independent Directors, including of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, the Chairman of the Company.
The Board considers that at including the Chairman.
The annual evaluation for the year least one member of the Committee has sufficient recent and ended 31 December 2008 has been carried out.
This took the relevant financial experience for it to discharge its function form of questionnaires followed by discussions to identify effectively.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of this how the effectiveness of its activities, including its Committee to enable him to be kept fully informed of any Committees, policies or processes might be enhanced.
The issues which may arise.
The terms of reference of this results of the evaluation process were presented to and Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 27 Corporate Governance Statement continued Committee are available on request and on the Investment the non audit service and whether there are safeguards in Managers website at www.
co. uk its under the place to ensure that there is no threat to their objectivity and literature section and will also be available at each Annual independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from the General Meeting.
On an annual basis Ernst & Young LLP review the independence of their relationship with the The Committee meets at least twice a year and, amongst Company and report to the Board, providing details of any other things, examines the effectiveness of the control other relationship with the Investment Manager.
The two planned meetings are held prior to the has concluded that Ernst & Young LLP is independent of the Board meeting to approve the half yearly and annual results, Company and the Investment Manager.
including the valuation of any unquoted investments.
The Committee does not consider that as an investment trust The external auditors are invited to attend the Audit & company it needs to hold an additional meeting although this Management Engagement Committee meeting at which the is kept under review.
annual accounts are considered and, at which they have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without During the year the principal activities of the Audit & representatives of the Investment Manager being present.
Management Engagement Committee included: As the Board is small it with the exception of Mr Barby who considering and recommending to the Board for approval was considered non-independent during the year fulfils the the contents of the half yearly and annual financial function of the Remuneration Committee which will meet statements and reviewing the external auditors report when necessary to determine the remuneration of the thereon: Directors.
The remuneration of the Chairman and Directors reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, is reviewed against the fees paid to directors of other independence and objectivity of the external auditors: specialist investment trusts and investment trusts of a comparable size, as well as taking account of any data reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval published by the Association of Investment Companies.
the audit and non-audit fees payable to the external auditors and the terms of their engagement: Membership of the Audit & Management reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for Engagement Committee the following financial year: Colin Buchan Chairman Oliver Baring reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys Anthony Lea Gordon Sage accounting policies: ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and standards: and Attendance record Board Audit considering the remuneration of the Investment Manager Number of Meetings held 52 and reviewing the terms of the Investment Management Number of Meetings attended Agreement.
Anthony Lea 52 Ian Barby 5 not a member The Committee has also reviewed and accepted the Colin Buchan 41 whistleblowing policy that has been put in place by the Oliver Baring 52 Gordon Sage 42 Investment Manager under which its staff, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, insofar as they affect Internal controls the Company.
The Board is responsible for the internal controls of the Non audit fees of 4,500 excluding VAT were paid to Ernst & Company and for reviewing their effectiveness, for ensuring Young LLP for their review of the half yearly financial that financial information published or used within the statements.
The Board considers whether the skills and business is reliable, and for regularly monitoring compliance experience of the auditors make them a suitable supplier of with regulations governing the operation of investment 28 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc trusts.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal research and appraisal, and also takes into account control systems on an ongoing basis to identify, evaluate and environmental policies and other business issues.
The manage the Companys significant risks.
As part of that Company invests primarily on financial grounds to meet its process, there are procedures designed to capture and stated objectives.
The Investment Managers policies on evaluate any failings or weaknesses.
Should a case be Socially Responsible Investment and Corporate Governance in categorised by the Board as significant, procedures exist to the UK are detailed on their website www.
co. uk its, ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
in the Investment Trust Literature section.
The Board is not aware of any significant failings or weaknesses in the year.
Relations with shareholders All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at Control of the risks identified, covering financial, operational, the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual compliance and risk management, is embedded in the General Meeting sets out the business of the Meeting and operations of the Investment Manager and BNYE.
There is a any item not of an entirely routine nature is explained in the monitoring and reporting process to review these controls, Directors Report.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting and which has been in place throughout the year under review related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working and up to the date of this report, carried out by the days before the Meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed Investment Managers corporate audit department.
accords with the guidance in the Turnbull Report.
In addition, regular updates on performance are sent to The Investment Manager reports to the Company on its shareholders and the Investment Manager reviews the review of internal controls, formally on a semi-annual basis Companys activities at the Annual General Meeting, where and verbally at each Board and Audit & Management the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit & Engagement Committee meeting.
The Audit & Management Management Engagement Committee and representatives Engagement Committee also receives a report from BNYE on of the Investment Manager are available to answer the internal controls of its custodial operations.
Proxy voting figures will be Company does not have its own internal audit function, as all announced to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
the administration is delegated to the Investment Manager.
This matter is kept under review.
The Board discusses with the Investment Manager at each Board meeting any feedback from meetings with The Board recognises that these control systems can only be shareholders, and it also receives reports from its designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure corporate broker.
to achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement There is a section within this report entitled Shareholder or loss, and relies on the operating controls established by Information, on pages 59 to 61, which provides an overview the Investment Manager and BNYE.
of useful information available to shareholders.
The Investment Manager prepares revenue forecasts and The Companys accounts are also published on management accounts which allow the Board to assess the www.
co. uk its which is the website maintained by Companys activities and review its performance.
the Companys Investment Manager, BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited.
The work undertaken by the The Board and the Investment Manager have agreed clearly auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and and integrity of the website and, accordingly, the auditors exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred performance statistics and investment valuations, are to the accounts since they were initially presented on the submitted to the Board at each meeting.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation Socially Responsible Investment and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation The Company invests in mining companies around the world.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies within the portfolio includes Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 29
