BlueBay Asset Management plc Audit Committee 38 Annual Report 2008 Report This Audit Committee Report sets out the Composition of the Committee Meetings role of the Audit Committee, its membership The Committee is chaired by Alan Gibbins, The Committee met seven times during the and what it considered during the year.
who was appointed on 5 November 2007. financial year and invited the Chairman, Chief His biography, and that of the other members Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Role of the Committee of the Committee, can be found on page 28 Chief Operating Officer, General Counsel, The Board has delegated to the Committee of this report.
Alan Gibbins will make himself Compliance Officer and senior members of responsibility for overseeing the financial available at the 2008 AGM to answer any both the internal and external auditors to reporting and internal control of the questions relating to the Committee and its attend several of the meetings.
The Committee Group and for maintaining an appropriate activities.
In addition, he will offer himself for met with each of the internal and external relationship with the Groups auditors.
The re-election at the same shareholders auditors on two separate occasions without main role of the Committee is to encourage meeting.
the presence of any executive directors or and safeguard the highest standards of other senior management employees.
financial reporting integrity, risk management As at 30 June 2008, the Committee was Attendance by directors is indicated in the and internal control.
comprised solely of the independent nontable below.
executive directors, Alan Gibbins, Terence In doing this the principal responsibilities of Eccles and Tom Cross Brown.
Meetings attended the Committee include: Hans-Jrg Rudloff 1 1 The Board is satisfied that at least one Terence Eccles 6 7 reviewing the form, content and integrity member of the Committee has recent and Tom Cross Brown 7 7 of the Group and Company Financial relevant financial experience.
Alan Gibbins 4 4 Statements: monitoring and reviewing the The Committee has written Terms of The minutes of each Committee meeting are effectiveness of the external and internal Reference which are reviewed annually by circulated to all Board members.
audit functions: both the Committee itself and the Board recommending to the Board the as a whole.
The Terms are available on the appointment, reappointment or removal Companys website.
of the external auditor: recommending to the Board the At the beginning of the period owing to the appointment, reappointment or removal recent Listing and substantial re-organisation of the internal auditors: within the Company it had been decided reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness that the Chairman, Hans-Jrg Rudloff, be of the Groups internal controls and risk a member of the Committee in order to management systems: and provide continuity between the pre and ensuring that suitable procedures are in post-Listing Board structures.
In view of place for employees to raise concerns the progress made by the Company and in about improprieties in matters pertaining conformity with the Code, the Chairman to any area of operation within the stood down from the Audit Committee Company.
Tom Cross Brown fulfilled the role of Chairman of the Committee prior to Alan Gibbins appointment in November 2007.
Audit Committee Report 39 Report of the Committees activities reviewing the effectiveness of the internal The Committee further considered the During the year the Audit Committee control and risk management procedures reappointment of PwC as auditors, taking into discharged its responsibilities as set out in its in accordance with the Turnbull guidance account the results of the auditor assessment Terms of Reference by undertaking the 2005: process, the quality of work undertaken following work: reviewing and approving the AAF 01 06: and the level of audit fees.
The Committee and concluded that it was appropriate to meeting prior to the release of the Groups receiving updates on the development of recommend the reappointment of the financial information, including the MiFID and the Companys processes for auditors and that this recommendation be put Annual and Interim Reports, and each of ensuring compliance, as well as receiving to the shareholders at the AGM in November.
the Interim Management Statements in feedback on progress with implementing order to review the content: thereby also the new standards.
The Committee is satisfied that the external considering the suitability of the auditors remain independent.
accounting policies and reviewing any Non-audit services and auditor reporting issues or areas of judgement independence Support to the Committee applied in compiling the statements: The Committee monitors the level of The Committee received information and reviewing the annual report disclosures on non-audit work carried out by the external support from management during the year items relevant to the Committee: auditors and seeks assurances from the to enable it to carry out its duties and appointing KPMG to provide internal audit auditors that they and their staff have no responsibilities effectively.
The Committee services to the Company: family, financial, employment, investment Chairman met regularly with the Chief agreeing the engagement letter of the or business relationship with the Company Financial Officer and was available in the internal auditors, as well as evaluating outside of the normal course of business.
event that either the internal or external their performance over the engagement Furthermore, the Committee also seeks auditors wished to meet with the Chairman period: assurances that the auditors themselves outside of the scheduled Committee reviewing the internal audit plan for the maintain suitable policies and processes meetings.
No such meetings were requested.
period and receiving regular updates ensuring independence and monitoring thereon: compliance with the relevant regulatory As with the Nomination Committee, the considering the current internal auditors requirements on an annual basis.
Company Secretary is Secretary to the for reappointment based on their Committee.
performance: The Company operates on the basis whereby reviewing the Companys whistle-blowing the provision of non-audit services by the procedures: auditor is permissible where no conflict of reviewing the scope and nature of the interest arises, where the independence of external audit with the auditors prior to the auditors is not likely to be impinged by the commencement of the audit, as well undertaking the work and the quality and as receiving the auditors engagement objectivity of both the non-audit work and letter and agreeing the relevant fees: audit work will not be compromised.
evaluating the continued independence of the external auditors with a view to recommending or not their continued appointment: receiving regular reports from the Compliance Officer in relation to the Companys compliance with relevant regulation:
