33 The Board is accountable to the Companys During the course of 2006, the Financial The Board has a formal schedule of matters shareholders for sound corporate governance Reporting Council issued an updated version reserved for its decision.
This is reviewed and is committed to ensuring the integrity of of the Combined Code the Code which annually and amended accordingly.
The the business, maintaining its ethical standards became applicable to accounting periods schedule includes items such as: and continuing the high degree of beginning on or after 1 November 2006. professionalism across the Company.
This is the first year the Company will report the approval of the interim, preliminary against the provisions of the 2006 Code.
The and annual report and accounts: The past two financial years have seen Directors consider that the Group has applied any material changes to the Companys significant changes in both the Groups the principles of the Combined Code 2006 overall commercial strategy and business capital structure and Board membership.
On the Code throughout the reporting plan: 22 November 2006 the Companys ordinary period and outline below how the provisions any major Group re-organisations or shares were admitted to trading on the have been complied with, where they have changes in the control structure: main market of the London Stock Exchange not been fully met and why this is the case.
setting the risk management and internal following a process of consolidation of the control policies for the Group: four different classes of shares previously The role of the Board consideration of any increases in issued by the Company.
In addition, the The Board is collectively responsible to borrowings beyond the limits previously composition of the private company Board shareholders for creating and delivering adopted: was reviewed and brought into line with the sustainable long-term shareholder value determining the dividend policy: applicable requirements following the Listing.
through strong leadership, financial consideration of any appointment to or Two executive directors, Nick Williams, Chief performance and the approval of the removal from the Board, including the Financial Officer, and Alex Khein, Chief Companys strategic objectives.
It is also selection of Chairman, Senior Operating Officer, were appointed to the responsible for ensuring that adequate Independent Director and Chief Executive: Board on 1 November 2006 prior to Listing resources are made available to make certain membership of Board committees and and two of the long standing directors, that these objectives are met and for ensuring their respective chairmen on Roger Jenkins and Mark Militello, who were that management maintains systems of recommendation by the Nomination respectively the representative directors for internal control which provide assurance of Committee: and Barclays Bank PLC and Shinsei Bank, Limited, effective and efficient operations, strong delegation of the Boards powers as well resigned on the same date.
The new internal financial controls and compliance as the assessment of its performance.
independent non-executive directors, with applicable law and regulations.
Terence Eccles and Tom Cross Brown joined The Board fulfils its duties to the Companys the Board at the time of Listing and a further The executive directors are responsible for shareholders by means of direct intervention independent non-executive director, Alan developing the business, day-to-day operations or by delegating its responsibilities to the Gibbins, was invited to join the Board in and delivering performance according to the principal committees of the Board.
These non-executive strategic objectives established by the Board the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination directors formed the core of the newly as a whole.
To the development of these Committees.
More detailed reports on the created principal Board committees which activities, the non-executive directors bring activities of each committee can be found on were brought into existence at the time of objectivity and constructive debate.
pages 38 to 39, 40 to 47 and 37 respectively.
These committees have now completed their first full financial year of The Company Secretary is responsible for business and report back on those activities ensuring Board procedures are followed.
Hans-Jrg Rudloff remained as Chairman throughout the period of transition.
Corporate Governance Report BlueBay Asset Management plc Corporate Governance 34 Annual Report 2008 Report The Composition of the Board non-executive directors and does not believe Any Director who was unable to attend As at 30 June 2008, the Board comprised that these impinge upon their duties to a Board meeting received appropriate four non-executive directors, including the the Company.
and timely information in advance of the Chairman, and four executive directors.
meeting in order that their views could be The Board considers its size both suitable Chairman and Chief Executive taken into consideration.
and appropriate for the effective control and The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive conduct of the business as well as the stage are distinct and separate.
The Chairman, Information to the Board of development of the Company.
The Board Hans-Jrg Rudloff, has been chairman of the The Chairman, with the assistance of the recognises that it is not fully compliant Company since July 2001 and is responsible Company Secretary, is responsible for with the Combined Code in regards to the for leading the Board and ensuring its ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, recommended composition of the Board effectiveness.
The role of Chief Executive is timely and clear information on all relevant in terms of the number of independent held by Hugh Willis, one of the co-founders matters.
In addition to the regular Board directors but remains confident that the of the Company, who has been a director and Committee packs, Directors receive strength of its independent non-executive and the Chief Executive since its inception in detailed monthly updates on the financial directors is sufficient to ensure that no 2001.
He is responsible for the executive performance of the Group, its Assets under individual or small group can dominate the management of the Company which includes Management and portfolio and fund Boards decision-making.
The composition of the formulation of the Companys strategy for performances.
Directors receive copies of the Board as outlined above was the position building shareholder value over the long-term.
the minutes to principal Committee meetings throughout the period.
Profiles of the and copies of proposed press releases relating Directors can be found on pages 28 and 29.
Operation of the Board to the financial performance of the Group The Board held eight meetings during the for review and comment before publication.
Terence Eccles is the Companys senior year ended 30 June 2008.
The Board is Updates to compliance and regulatory independent director and was appointed to collectively responsible for setting its own matters are also provided to Directors.
At each Board meeting, the Chief to shareholders if they have concerns which Executive generally provides a review of the On appointment to the Board, Company have not or cannot be resolved through business and its performance and the Chief marketing literature and financial reports normal channels with the Chairman or Chief Financial Officer, a review of the financial are made available to new directors.
The senior independent director position of the Company.
The range of topics the skill and experience of the Companys is responsible for leading the performance discussed during the period under review non-executive directors, the Board believes review of the Chairman.
included, for example, the strategic it a matter best left to the discretion of each development of the Company, the approval individual Director to determine general Apart from the Chairman, the Board considers and review of new business, regulatory and training requirements, except where such all three of the remaining non-executive compliance matters, the approval of the weaknesses have been identified during the directors, namely Terence Eccles, Tom Cross interim Financial Statements as well as annual Board performance evaluation.
The Brown and Alan Gibbins to be independent.
corporate governance issues and discussion Company aims to make available to Directors of the resourcing and administrative issues of the various programmes of training offered The Company expects a high level of the Company.
constructive input and intelligent questioning from its non-executive directors.
Where Attendance at the Board meetings is set out All Directors have access to the advice and Directors have concerns that cannot be in the table below.
services of the Company Secretary and may resolved about the running of the Company, seek independent professional advice, if these are recorded in the minutes as a matter necessary, at the Companys expense.
Meetings attended of Board practice.
Hans-Jrg Rudloff 7 8 The appointment and removal of the Terence Eccles 7 8 The Chairmans other significant Company Secretary is a matter for the Board Tom Cross Brown 8 8 commitments are described in this report as a whole, following recommendation of the Alan Gibbins 5 5 under the Board of Directors on page 28.
Hugh Willis 7 8 There have been no material changes to such Mark Poole 7 8 commitments during the period and these Nick Williams 8 8 commitments are not considered to impact Alex Khein 8 8 on his duties.
The Company is aware of the external commitments of the independent Alan Gibbins joined the Board on 5 November 2007 Corporate Governance Report continued 35 Chairmans Committee The appraisals were conducted making use Shareholder relations The Chairman met with the non-executive of tailored questionnaires which covered a During the year, the Chief Executive, the directors without the presence of the executive number of wide ranging issues followed by Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Operating directors during the reporting period.
various combinations of face to face meetings.
Officer met and made presentations to Each year prior to the commencement of the institutional investors, analysts and prospective Board Committees review, consideration is given as to whether shareholders.
Feedback from these meetings The Board formally delegates certain this method continues to be effective and was given to the Board.
The senior independent responsibilities to Committees by way add value to the evaluation.
Any action points director is also available to meet major of written Terms of Reference.
The three stemming from the process are passed to shareholders if requested.
The Directors, principal Committees are the Audit, the Company Secretary to action.
with the assistance of the Company Secretary, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
ensure that all appropriate communications Details of each principal Committee, Having completed the review, the Board are released to the London Stock Exchange its membership and Terms of Reference is confident that it continues to operate and shareholders.
are summarised on the following pages effectively and the Company benefits together with details of significant activities both from having the objectiveness brought The Company maintains a corporate website undertaken during the year.
The Directors by each non-executive director and the www.
com which contains a receive copies of the minutes to all the leadership of the executive directors.
wide range of information on the Company, principal Committee meetings.
including regulatory announcements and The Board views the annual performance published financial information and also Board performance evaluation as a highly useful tool in ensuring details on the net asset values of the funds it An annual performance review was the ongoing effectiveness of the Board manages, as well as contact details for both conducted evaluating the effectiveness of and assisting it in determining if the right the Companys registrars and for queries the Board and its Committees.
The review balance of skills is brought to the oversight submitted directly to the Company.
covered aspects such as the Board and of the Company.
Committee performance throughout the The AGM is due to be held on 14 November period, the individual performance of each The Nomination Committee, in making 2008 and the Board and Chairman of each Director, including the respective Chairmen, recommendations to the Board in respect of of the principal Committees welcome the and whether each had contributed sufficient Directors for re-election, makes use of the opportunity to answer questions put forward time and brought a suitable mix of feedback from the review process to assist it to them by shareholders of the Company.
knowledge and skills in order for the Board in evaluating the performance of Directors The Annual Report and Accounts and the and its Committees to fulfil their duties.
notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of The process included a review of the the meeting.
performance of the Board as a whole, of each of the Directors led by the Chairman, an evaluation of the performance of the Chairman, led by the senior independent director and of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees with their respective Chairmen.
BlueBay Asset Management plc Corporate Governance Report 36 Annual Report 2008 & Nomination Committee Report Re-election Strategic decisions relating to risk Regulation On recommendation of the Nomination management and internal control are The Company is authorised and regulated Committee following the annual performance embedded in the matters reserved for in the United Kingdom by the FSA.
The review, the Board confirms that the Directors consideration by the Board.
In overseeing Company is registered as an investment subject to re-election at the 2008 AGM, these functions, the Board has delegated some advisor with the US Securities and Exchange namely Hans-Jrg Rudloff, Alan Gibbins, of these activities to the Audit Committee.
To facilitate the activities of the Hugh Willis and Mark Poole continue to The Committee annually conducts a review Companys operation in Japan, one of the perform their duties effectively and of the effectiveness of the procedures in place Companys subsidiaries, BlueBay Asset demonstrate commitment to their respective and seeks assurances from management that Management Japan Limited, is registered roles.
The Board will recommend the the system is fit for purpose.
The identification, with the relevant authority in that country, re-election of the Directors named above at evaluation and management of these risks is the Financial Services Agency.
the AGM to be held on 14 November 2008. an ongoing process and has been in place throughout the period and up to the date of The Company also provides financial services Going concern this report.
In instances where the review but does not have a physical presence in The Directors are satisfied that the Group process highlights any failing or weaknesses, the various EU states but as these services and Company have adequate resources to suitable remedial action is taken.
are provided on a cross-border basis and the continue in operational existence for the Company does not have a physical presence foreseeable future and accordingly continue The Audit Committee and Board review, in an EU state other than the UK, it is only to adopt the going concern basis in preparing at least annually, the effectiveness of the subject to the rules of these various EU the Financial Statements.
controls in place in accordance with the states to a limited degree having obtained Turnbull guidance 2005. the appropriate European investment Internal control services passport.
This passport derives The Board has overall responsibility for Further information on the risk management from the pan-European regime established the Groups systems of internal control and and internal control framework can be found by the Markets in Financial Instruments risk management, although responsibility in the Risk Management and Internal Control Directive MiFID.
for designing, operating and maintaining Report on pages 48 to 51. the framework of control and mitigation The Company is the Promoter, Investment is delegated to management.
Both the Whistle-blowing measures Manager and Principal Sales Agent of the Board and management recognise that the In accordance with the FSA rules the BlueBay Funds a Luxembourg incorporated framework mitigates the risk associated with Company has had a whistle-blowing policy in entity that is subject to supervision by the the Groups activities rather than eliminating place for a number of years.
This enables staff Commission fide Surveillance du Secteur it and can objectively provide reasonable but to raise concerns about possible improprieties Financier in Luxembourg.
not absolute assurance against material relating to the Companys operations.
Code recommends that the Audit Committee The Board is committed to achieving and should review the adequacy of the Companys building on the high standards of corporate whistle-blowing arrangements.
The review governance adopted following Listing.
was conducted during the 2007 08 financial year, and again in the period between the For and on behalf of the Board year-end and publication of the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts.
The policy was considered to meet current James Brace market practice in this area and no changes Company Secretary were recommended.
18 September 2008 Corporate Governance Report continued
