37 This Nomination Committee Report sets out Composition of the Committee gave consideration to the appointment of the role of the Nomination Committee, its The Nomination Committee comprises the the Company Secretary during the period: membership and what it considered during non-executive directors, Terence Eccles, as on 13 July 2007, James Brace, General the year.
Chairman, Hans-Jrg Rudloff, Tom Cross Counsel, was appointed as Company Brown and Alan Gibbins.
The role had previously been Role of the Committee Chairman will attend the 2008 AGM and held by Nick Williams, CFO: The purpose of the Nomination Committee be able to respond to any queries raised played a pivotal role in the selection and is to consider and make recommendations regarding the activities of the Committee.
appointment of an additional independent to the Board concerning its composition, non-executive director: Alan Gibbins proposed appointees and whether any Meetings was appointed to the Board in November vacancies that may arise should be filled.
The Committee met four times during the 2007 following a careful selection process financial year.
Attendance details are tabled spanning several months.
During the The principal duties of the Nomination below.
process the Committee explored a number Committee include the following: of recruitment alternatives which resulted Meetings attended in a shortlist of suitable candidates being to review regularly the structure, size identified.
Face-to-face meetings were Hans-Jrg Rudloff 4 4 and composition of the Board and make arranged with the Chairman, senior Terence Eccles 3 4 recommendations to the Board with independent director and a combination Tom Cross Brown 4 4 regard to any changes: of executive and non-executive directors.
Alan Gibbins 1 1 to identify, nominate and recommend for On completion of the meetings, the the approval of the Board, appropriate Committee and Board received feedback candidates to fill Board vacancies as and Alan Gibbins joined the Committee on from all relevant parties which assisted when they arise: 5 November 2007 following his appointment them in making their final decision.
to evaluate the balance of skills, to the Board.
It was not considered necessary to utilise knowledge and experience on the Board an external search consultancy or open and, in light of this evaluation, prepare The Committee regularly invites the Chief advertising in order to fill this appointment: a description of the role and capabilities Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and required for a particular appointment: to attend its meetings.
the Committee also reviewed the relevant to satisfy itself with regard to succession sections of the Report and Accounts prior planning that processes and plans are The Committee has written Terms of to publication.
in place with regard to both Board and Reference which are available for inspection senior management appointments: on the Companys website.
The Terms are Support to the Committee to review annually the time required to reviewed on an annual basis both by the When required, the Committee receives fulfil the role of the Chairman, senior Committee and the Board as a whole.
information from senior management, independent director and each nonand external advisors, to enable it to carry out executive director and to use performance Report of the Committees activities its duties and responsibilities effectively.
evaluation to assess whether each nonDuring the reporting period, the Committee executive director has devoted sufficient fulfilled its duties as outlined below: The Company Secretary is the Secretary of time to their duties: the Committee and his services are available to recommend the re-election or not by undertook a rigorous review of the to the Committee Chairman.
shareholders of any Director under the composition and structure of the Board retirement and re-election provisions in and its Committee, giving consideration to the Companys Articles of Association: the skills and knowledge of the current to make a statement in the Annual Report members and the time required by each to about its activities and the process used fulfil their duties: for appointments: made recommendations to the Board for to make available its Terms of Reference re-election of Directors at the 2007 AGM: upon request and display them on the Companys website: and to ensure that on appointment to the Board, non-executive directors receive formal written terms of appointment.
