60 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors report Corporate governance report Statement of compliance The board is led by the Chairman, Mr Buckley, whose responsibilities have The board recognises the importance of good corporate governance and been agreed and set out in writing in the Schedule of Authorities adopted this report describes how the company has applied the principles of good by the board.
The Chairmans primary role is to ensure that the board and corporate governance as set out in section one of the Combined Code individual directors are able to operate efficiently by setting the agenda, issued in June 2006 the Combined Code.
Shareholders registered on style and tone of board discussions to promote constructive debate and the companys New Zealand branch register should note that the effective decision making.
He has overall responsibility for monitoring the principles of good corporate governance set out in the Combined Code development needs of the board as a whole and of individual directors may materially differ from the New Zealand Exchanges corporate and for ensuring that the performance of the board, its committees and governance rules and the principles of its Corporate Governance Best individual directors are evaluated at least once a year.
In conjunction with Practice Code.
A copy of the Combined Code is available on the website the Chief Executive, the Chairman is responsible for ensuring effective of the Financial Reporting Council at http: www.
uk corporate communication with shareholders and that all board members develop combinedcode.
cfm an understanding of the views of investors.
This is primarily achieved by board briefings following meetings with significant shareholders, analysts and private client stockbrokers, some of which are also attended by the The board Overall responsibility and operation Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The board as a whole is responsible for the groups objectives and policies The Chief Executive, Mr Ingram, heads the executive management and the management of its resources.
It usually has eleven scheduled team and is primarily responsible for the implementation of the boards meetings a year, but also convenes at additional times when required.
policies and strategy and for managing the activities of the company The board has adopted a Schedule of Authorities which sets out matters other than in relation to those matters specifically reserved to the board specifically reserved to it for decision.
Such matters include the approval or delegated to its committees.
His responsibilities have also been agreed of strategy, the annual budget, material capital and revenue transactions and set out in writing in the Schedule of Authorities adopted by the and changes in business activities, treasury policies, risk management board.
Except where the board gives specific direction otherwise, the and internal policy limits relating to the companys investment activities.
Chief Executive may delegate any of those matters to other members The Schedule of Authorities also sets out the authorities that are of the executive management team or to executive committees, but delegated to board committees and to executive management.
The ultimately he is accountable to the board for the overall performance Schedule of Authorities is reviewed annually by the board.
All directors receive appropriate and timely information to ensure A strong independent non-executive representation on the board that they are properly briefed in advance of board meetings and have is headed by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, unlimited access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary Mr Allen-Jones.
The role of the non-executive directors, as set out in their and other senior management should further information be required.
letters of appointment, is to challenge constructively, and contribute Non-executive directors have access to independent professional advice to, the development of strategy: to scrutinise the performance of at the companys expense where they judge it necessary to discharge management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor their their responsibilities as directors.
performance: to satisfy themselves that financial information is accurate and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust Appointment, induction and training and defensible: to determine appropriate levels of remuneration for All new directors appointed by the board are required to seek election executive directors: and to have a prime role in senior management by shareholders at the next general meeting of the company following appointments and succession planning.
their appointment and subsequently all directors are required to retire The composition of the board is such that, throughout the year, by rotation at least every three years.
Any non-executive director who has the company did not comply with provision A.
served on the board for over nine years is subject to annual re-election.
The board however believes that the main objectives of board balance On appointment, new directors are offered induction and training and independence set out in the Combined Code that the board should considered appropriate by the board and subsequently as necessary.
include a balance of executive and non-executive directors, and in The Company Secretary provides details of, and where requested particular independent non-executive directors, such that no individual arranges attendance at, external courses to assist in directors or small group of individuals can dominate the boards decision taking professional development.
Board composition The board is currently broadly comprised of three categories of The directors, all of whom served throughout the year, are shown directors the four independent non-executive directors: four directors on pages 24 and 25. the Chairman and three executive directors The Hon C W Cayzer and The board currently comprises twelve directors.
Excluding the Messrs Cayzer-Colvin and Wyatt who are involved in the affairs of Cayzer Chairman, six of the directors are executive and five non-executive.
The Trust, Caledonias largest shareholder: and three other executive non-executive directors considered to be independent are Messrs Allendirectors Messrs Ingram, Cartwright and May.
Mr Loudon does not fall Jones, Davies, Goblet dAlviella and Thompson.
In assessing Mr Goblet into any of these categories as his thirteen year tenure as a non-executive dAlviellas independence, the board took account of his position as chief director exceeds the nine year limit specified in the Combined Code executive officer of Sofina sa, which has a 4.7% shareholding in Caledonia, criteria for independence although absent the Combined Codes nine but did not consider this shareholding to be significant in the context of year limit the board would have regarded him as independent and, independence, particularly given the size of the Cayzer Concert Partys although a member of the wider Cayzer family, he is not involved in the total interest in the company.
Moreover, in the context of Caledonia, the affairs of Cayzer Trust.
board regards as key in assessing independence Mr Goblet dAlviellas ability, given the shareholding of Sofina sa and his past investment banking experience, to look at the interests of the general body of shareholders, independent of the Cayzer Concert Party and of Caledonias executive management.
Collectively, the directors throughout the year brought a wide range of experience, skills and expertise to the stewardship of the company.
The individual biographies of the directors appear on pages 24 and 25.
Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 61 In addition to the balance on the board brought by these categories, the Remuneration Committee Governance Committee, comprising solely independent non-executive The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr Davies, is responsible for directors, keeps under review corporate governance and conflict the review of executive remuneration policy.
Within that policy, the of interest issues relating to the company and the board and may Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration packages of recommend that any director abstains from participating in any decision executive directors and reviews those of other senior executive of the board, or any board committee, where it believes that a conflict of management.
It is also responsible for the design of, and grant of awards interest could, or could be perceived to, arise.
The board believes that this under, the companys share incentive schemes and for the determination structure ensures the necessary level of board balance demanded by the of the policy for and scope of pension arrangements, service agreements, Combined Code and safeguards against any individual or small group of termination payments and compensation commitments for executive individuals being able to dominate the boards decision taking.
Whilst directors and, if requested by the board, for other senior executives.
not in strict compliance with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code, the The Remuneration Committee met three times during the year.
board believes this structure is appropriate in the context of a company The matters considered by the Remuneration Committee included: with a large controlling shareholder whose stability and support is The determination of bonuses for executive directors and review of fundamental to Caledonias business model as a long term, supportive bonuses for other senior executives for the year ended 31 March 2007. investor, and is therefore in the best interests of all shareholders.
The grant of options and deferred bonus awards under the companys The Combined Code also requires that the members of the executive share option scheme and deferred bonus plan.
Remuneration and Audit Committees should all be independent nonexecutive directors.
However, Mr Loudons membership of these The determination of basic salaries for executive directors and review Committees, given the nine year limit on length of service as a nonof salaries for other senior executives for the year commencing executive director included in the Combined Codes criterion for 1 April 2008. independence, means that provisions B.
2.1 and C. 3.1 of the Combined A review of the design of the companys deferred bonus plan in the Code are not met.
However, the board otherwise regards Mr Loudon as context of the companys policies on executive remuneration and independent and considers his length of experience with the company, current market practice, and the consequent proposal to seek as well as his business career, to be significant assets.
Accordingly, the shareholder approval for an amendment to the plan rules to provide board believes his membership of these Committees to be in the best for conditional matching share awards for compulsory bonus deferral.
Further information on the companys executive remuneration policy Board committees and the work of the Remuneration Committee is included in the The board has delegated certain specific areas of responsibility to the directors remuneration report set out on pages 53 to 59. following standing committees, the terms of reference of which are reviewed annually and are available on the companys website.
The Audit Committee current membership of these committees is noted on page 69.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Allen-Jones, is responsible for the monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements of the company Nomination Committee and any announcements relating to the companys financial performance The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr Buckley, is responsible for the and for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements regular review of the structure, size and composition including the skills, contained therein.
It also reviews the companys systems of internal knowledge and experience of the board and for giving consideration control and risk management procedures and considers annually to succession planning for executive directors and, if requested by the whether an internal audit function is required.
The Audit Committee board, for other senior executives.
It is responsible for identifying, using believes that, in the context of the companys business as an investment external search consultants where necessary, candidates to fill board trust company, the key issues on which it has to satisfy itself are the vacancies as and when they arise and for making recommendations to integrity of the application of the companys policy for the valuation of its the board in relation thereto and for keeping under review the leadership investments, particularly those which are unquoted, and the robustness needs of the company, both executive and non-executive.
It reviews the of the groups internal controls.
The valuations of the companys time required of non-executive directors and ensures that they receive unquoted investments are subject to formal six monthly reviews by an formal letters of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of internal Challenge Committee, independent of the relevant investment them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement executives, whose meetings are also attended by the auditors, and key outside board meetings.
valuations are then reviewed by the Audit Committee.
A formal report on The Nomination Committee met once during the year in order to the effectiveness of the groups internal controls and risk management undertake a formal review of the size and composition of the board procedures is prepared annually for the board by the companys Risk following the 2007 annual board performance evaluation and to consider Manager.
It is the Audit Committees current opinion that, in view of the contribution and commitment of the non-executive directors retiring these control processes, the size of the entities controlled by Caledonia at the 2007 annual general meeting, prior to giving recommendations and the relatively straightforward control considerations in relation to for their re-elections.
other investments, a separate internal audit function is not necessary.
62 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors report Corporate governance report It is also the Audit Committees responsibility to review and monitor Governance Committee the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the The Governance Committee, chaired by Mr Allen-Jones, keeps under effectiveness of the audit process and to develop and implement policy review corporate governance issues relating to the company and is on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
responsible for the monitoring and review of the ability of each director In this regard, the Audit Committee has approved a schedule of specific to act in the interests of shareholders as a whole and to exercise non-audit activities which may not be undertaken by the external independence of judgement free from relationships or circumstances auditors, within the broad principles that the external auditors should which are likely to, or could appear to, affect his judgement.
Where it not audit their own work, should not make management decisions on concludes that such criteria are not satisfied with regard to any director, behalf of the company, should not be put into the role of advocate for the it may make such recommendations to the board as it may think fit, company and that no mutuality of interest should be created between including that the director abstains from participating in any decision the company and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee believes of the board or any of its committees on the matter concerned.
The that, by applying these principles, the objectivity and independence of Governance Committee met once during the year, principally to review the auditors is maintained, notwithstanding that non-audit work may and approve the corporate governance report for the year ended be undertaken.
On an annual basis, the Audit Committee considers 31 March 2007. and makes a recommendation to the board as to the appointment, reAttendance at meetings appointment or removal of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee is The following table identifies the number of board and committee also responsible for the companys formal whistleblowing arrangements, meetings held in the year to 31 March 2008 and the attendance record whereby members of staff may raise any issues of concern regarding of individual directors.
possible impropriety in the conduct of the companys business and Nomination Remuneration Audit Governance whereby any such concerns are properly investigated and appropriate Board Committee Committee Committee Committee action taken.
Number of meetings The Combined Code recommends that at least one member of the 1 in the year 11 1 3 3 1 Audit Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience.
Attendances by The Audit Committee considers that Mr Loudon, who was formerly group P N Buckley 10 1 finance director of Blue Circle Industries, has such financial experience.
T C W Ingram 11 In addition, the chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Allen-Jones, J H Cartwright 11 is a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
The Hon C W Cayzer 9 The Audit Committee met three times during the year, and each J M B Cayzer-Colvin 9 meeting included a discussion with the auditors without any of the J M May 11 executive directors present.
During the year, the business undertaken W P Wyatt 11 by the Audit Committee included: C M Allen-Jones 11 1 3 3 1 A review of the performance of the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche M E T Davies 10 1 3 1 LLP, and the level of fees charged for its services.
R Goblet dAlviella 10 J R H Loudon 11 1 3 3 Consideration of the scope of the 2008 annual audit and agreement with the external auditors of the key areas of focus.
A review of the companys internal valuation guidelines and scrutiny of valuations of unquoted investments selected by the Committee in Board performance evaluation accordance with its adopted criteria.
The board conducts an annual formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
For the year ended Consideration of the reports from the external auditors concerning 31 March 2008, the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its their audit of the 2007 annual financial statements of the company committees was led by the Chairman and was conducted by inviting and their review of the 2007 half-year report.
individual board members to complete a questionnaire regarding the Consideration of the financial disclosures contained in the 2007 operation and effectiveness of the board as a whole and of its annual and half-year reports.
committees, the responses to which were collated by the Company The review of reports from the companys Risk Manager on the Secretary and discussed.
The evaluation of the performance of the effectiveness of the groups internal controls and risk management Chairman was led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director procedures for the year ended 31 March 2008 and on the companys and involved private discussion with other members of the board of their head office internal controls.
views on his performance, the results of which were then considered at meetings of the non-executive directors, without the Chairman present, Consideration of the need or otherwise for an internal audit function.
and of the Governance Committee.
The evaluation of the performance A review of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, of the Chief Executive was undertaken by the Chairman and the nonincluding their system of quality controls and the level and nature of executive directors.
The performance of the non-executive directors non-audit services provided by them.
was reviewed by the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, with the Senior Independent An evaluation of the performance of the Audit Committee itself for Non-Executive Director absent in respect of his own performance the year ended 31 March 2007. appraisal.
As part of this review, non-executive directors were invited Assurance of the companys compliance with the requirements for to complete self-assessment questionnaires in relation to their own approval as an investment trust company.
The performance of the executive directors, which included further consideration of that of the Chief Executive and Chairman, was undertaken by the Remuneration Committee as part of the annual executive salary review process.
Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 63 The results of the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its Specific control procedures are in place to ensure that the company committees for the year ended 31 March 2008 were presented in a report continually monitors and complies with the requirements for investment to the board.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the size, structure trust status.
The board receives monthly compliance reports evidencing and composition of the board in the light of this report.
that the company is meeting the various tests for investment trust status and also confirming that the investment activities undertaken Internal control by executive management are within the overall policy limits set by the The board has overall responsibility for the groups systems of risk board.
A Compliance Committee, comprising the Company Secretary management and internal control, although the review of risk chairman, the Finance Director, three associate directors and the Group management procedures and internal controls is delegated to the Audit Financial Controller Risk Manager has been established, which meets Committee.
The groups system of internal control is designed to weekly to review the companys ongoing compliance with its investment manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve business trust status and to monitor and approve all investment activity from objectives.
It is recognised that such a system can only provide an investment trust compliance perspective.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement Financial performance is continuously measured by comparing or loss.
The board confirms that the system of internal control operated total shareholder returns and net asset value per share movements by the group accords with the Turnbull guidance 2005 and has been in against the FTSE All-Share index.
Performance statistics are reported place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of these monthly to the board.
Income and expenses are monitored by the board financial statements.
against an approved annual budget and regularly updated forecasts.
Major business risks facing group companies and key investments Valuations of unquoted investments are subject to a rigorous six monthly are identified and assessed by local management and procedures are review process undertaken by a Challenge Committee independent agreed to address these as appropriate.
The boards of these companies of the relevant investment executives, whose meetings are also review business risk and controls regularly to ensure the system of risk attended by the auditors, and key valuations are then reviewed by management operates effectively.
Caledonias investment executives the Audit Committee.
then confirm, through Caledonias Risk Manager, to the Audit Committee Since the year end, the directors have concluded their annual that the system of risk management is operating effectively for these review of the operation and effectiveness of the groups system of group companies and key investments.
Key risks identified are regularly monitored at company level by members of the Executive Committee, who have clear mandates to Relations with shareholders assess and report on risk in their particular areas of responsibility.
From The company welcomes dialogue with institutional shareholders in order these assessments, an ongoing risk profile of the companys activities is to achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
The Chief Executive updated half-yearly and reviewed by the board.
The board is also provided and the Finance Director seek meetings with larger institutional quarterly with a list of the key risk issues identified by executive shareholders and private client stockbrokers after the announcement management at that particular time.
All of the companys larger of year end and half-year results.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive investments are reviewed at least annually by the board and the smaller Director attends some of these meetings.
The annual general meeting portfolio holdings reviewed at least annually by the Executive Committee.
also provides a forum for shareholders to meet the directors, both formally and informally.
The chairmen of all of the boards committees will be available to answer questions at the annual general meeting of the company.
