Overview Business review Financial statements and notes 03 Operational review 07 Financial review 08 15 largest investments 11 Valuation policy 12 The Board of directors 14 Report of the directors 20 Corporate governance 25 Directors remuneration report Corporate governance The audit committee The following statement sets out the In line with the requirements of the Companys application in the year to 31st Combined Code, the Board reviews The audit committee, chaired by Chris Russell, comprises six directors, as December, 2008 of the Combined Code its own performance annually using a on Corporate Governance issued by the predetermined template, designed to act shown on pages 12 and 13.
All members of the committee are regarded as Financial Reporting Council FRC in June as a tool to facilitate the evaluation process.
In the opinion The assessment covers the functioning independent.
Jimmy West was a member of the committee until his retirement on of the Board, the Company has complied of the Board as a whole, and includes a with the principles and the relevant review of the effectiveness of the Board 14th May, 2008.
Michael Jay became a member of the committee on 1st March, provisions in section 1 of the Combined committees.
In addition, the Chairman Code in all respects throughout the year reviews with each of the directors their 2008.
Nicholas Jones and Jan Oosterveld joined the committee at the time of their except where stated otherwise.
individual performance, contribution and commitment to the Company and any appointment to the Board on 14th April, 2008 and 29th October, 2008 respectively.
The Board further development of skills that may be Corporate governance of Candover is required.
Following discussions with the The other members served on the committee throughout the year.
The Board achieved through its Board which, at the other directors, the Senior Independent end of the year, comprised seven directors, Director reviews the performance of the is satisfied that the Chairman of the audit committee has recent and relevant financial all of whom were non-executive.
The Board does not consider a number of changes to the composition it necessary to employ the services, or to experience, as do other members of the committee.
of the Board during the year.
Jimmy West, incur the additional expense, of an external who had been a director since December third party to conduct the evaluation The audit committee carries out a number 1985, retired at the Annual General Meeting process as an appropriate mechanism is on 14th May, 2008.
Michael Jay became a already in place.
A review of the Boards of duties, including reviewing the interim and annual accounts, the effectiveness director on 1st January, 2008, with Nicholas performance in 2008 was undertaken in Jones and Jan Oosterveld joining the Board January 2009.
Individual performance is of the systems of accounting and internal financial control and the systems of on 14th April, 2008 and 29th October, 2008 taken into account when recommendations respectively.
are made regarding the election and rerisk management, and ensuring that arrangements are in place for the staff election of directors.
Brief biographical details of the directors to whistle-blow on financial reporting or other matters in so far as they may affect currently in office appear on pages 12 and Chairman 13.
The interests of the current directors in Gerry Grimstone served as nonthe Company.
The committees terms of reference were updated in November 2008. the share capital of the Company are shown executive Chairman throughout the year.
His appointment letter incorporates a Further information on the committees remit is given on page 23. description of the role of non-executive The Board typically meets five times a year, Chairman and was approved by the Meetings of the audit committee are held although there were eight meetings during Chairman of the nominations committee.
The formal schedule of matters at least three times a year, and are normally attended by the external auditor.
Five audit reserved for decision by the Board was Board committees updated during the year, and includes The Board is supported in its decisions committee meetings were held during 2008, with all members present on each corporate strategy, review of the Companys by three principal committees, which are management agreement with Candover described below.
The terms of reference occasion.
Partners Limited together with monitoring of each of these committees are available of performance thereunder and approval on the Companys website.
In addition, an The remuneration committee The remuneration committee, chaired of the annual budget, the Report and executive committee considers day to day Accounts, the payment of dividends and the issues on behalf of the Board.
The terms by Richard Stone, comprises all seven non-executive directors.
Its members are valuation of the Companys investments.
of reference of the executive committee All meetings during 2008 were attended by were extended during the year to enable shown on pages 12 and 13.
Jimmy West was a member of the committee until his all directors, apart from the meeting held it to exercise the authority granted to the on short notice in October to consider an Board to buy back the Companys ordinary retirement on 14th May, 2008.
Michael Jay became a member of the committee on investment opportunity in Eastern Europe, shares and to take decisions on potential which was attended by Gerry Grimstone, investment opportunities in Asia and Central 1st March, 2008.
Nicholas Jones and Jan Oosterveld joined the committee at the Nicholas Jones and Chris Russell.
The members of the executive committee are Gerry Grimstone time of their appointment to the Board on 14th April, 2008 and 29th October, 2008 as Chairman and four directors of Candover Partners Limited.
All other members served on the committee throughout 2008.
Candover 20 Report and accounts 2008 Board balance This committee supports the Board in Grant Thornton UK LLP, on tax and other determining the level of the remuneration There are seven non-executive directors issues related to investment trusts.
The Board considers its of the Chairman, and reviews the remuneration policy applicable to senior composition appropriate to the Companys Election and re-election of directors status as an investment trust.
The full report of the The principle set out in the Combined committee is set out in the directors executive directors are considered to be Code is that all directors should be of sufficient calibre and experience to remuneration report on page 25. subject to election by shareholders at the bring significant influence to bear on the first Annual General Meeting after their decision-making process.
The remuneration committee met once appointment, and to re-election thereafter during 2008, with all members present.
at intervals of no more than three years.
In the view of the Board, each director is A sub-committee of the committee met on The Combined Code requires that the a further two occasions.
Other business independent in character and judgement non-executive directors are appointed for and no director has any relationships was dealt with by written resolution.
At Candover, directors are that could materially interfere with their appointed, elected and re-elected subject independent judgement.
It is therefore the The nominations committee to retirement by rotation in accordance In considering Board appointments, the Boards view that all non-executives are with the Companys Articles of Association, independent, although Antony Hichens has Board is supported by a nominations with all directors being required to submit committee whose remit includes reviewing exceeded the nine year period of service themselves for re-election at least every envisaged by the Combined Code as being the structure, size and composition of the three years.
Board, satisfying itself that plans are in place potentially relevant to the determination of a non-executive directors independence.
for orderly succession for appointments Gerry Grimstones appointment is to the Board and identifying appropriate In this regard, the Board acknowledges terminable on 3 months notice.
All other the Association of Investment Companies candidates.
The appointment letters non-executive directors appointments for non-executive directors incorporate guidelines on corporate governance, are terminable at will.
The details of nonwhich do not recommend that long-serving a description of their role, which has executive directors letters of appointment been approved by the Chairman of the directors be prevented from forming part are set out in the directors remuneration of an independent majority.
The nominations report on page 27. committee will generally use an appropriate in compliance with the Combined Code, Antony Hichens has submitted himself external search consultancy to identify Relations with shareholders suitable candidates, and employed the for re-election at each Annual General Dialogue with institutional shareholders Meeting since May 2004.
Antony Hichens services of Whitehead Mann to assist with The Board is willing to enter into a dialogue the recruitment of both Nicholas Jones became the Senior Independent Director with institutional shareholders based on a in May 2008. and Jan Oosterveld in 2008.
All Board mutual understanding of objectives, subject appointments are subject to final approval to its duties regarding equal treatment of Supply of information of the Board and election or re-election at a shareholders and the dissemination of general meeting of shareholders.
The Chairman ensures that all directors are inside information.
The Chairman reports properly briefed on issues arising at Board to the Board on relevant contact with major The nominations committee, which is meetings.
As the Board is entirely nonshareholders.
Brokers reports on the executive it relies on Candover Partners chaired by Antony Hichens, comprises Company are circulated to non-executive four directors and the present members Limited, as manager, to provide it with directors.
appropriate and timely information in order of the committee are shown on pages 12 and 13.
Jimmy West was a member of the that the Board may reach proper decisions.
The Senior Independent Director is Its members can, if necessary, obtain committee until his retirement on 14th May, available to be contacted by shareholders 2008.
Michael Jay became a member of the independent professional advice at the in situations where contact through the Companys expense.
Chairman is felt to be inappropriate.
Directors training The nominations committee met twice Constructive use of the during 2008.
All members were present at Training is available to all directors, Annual General Meeting particularly new directors, on issues relevant each meeting.
The committees terms of The Board uses the Annual General reference were updated in March 2008. to their role.
As part of the annual Board Meeting to communicate with investors evaluation process directors are asked if and encourages their participation by there are any areas of knowledge or skill ensuring that senior Board members which they would like to develop further.
attend, including the Chairmen of the A formal induction process exists for new audit, remuneration and nominations non-executive directors.
Two of the noncommittees Chris Russell, Richard Stone executive directors who joined the Board and Antony Hichens respectively, to in 2008 attended one-to-one briefing answer shareholders questions.
meetings with the Companys auditor, Candover 21 Report and accounts 2008 Overview Business review Financial statements and notes Corporate governance continued Electronic communications Accountability and audit investments, the valuation of investments Following recent changes in company Financial reporting and the availability of funding to meet the law and the adoption of new Articles The directors are required to explain their Groups commitments.
Whilst the directors of Association at last years Annual responsibility for the financial statements have initiated measures to preserve cash, General Meeting, Candover wrote to all and this statement is given on page 24. reduce the cost base and secure additional its shareholders in January 2009 to seek The auditors review the Companys finance, these circumstances create their consent to communicating with them compliance with the provisions of the material uncertainties over future results and electronically.
Among other things, this Combined Code and compliance with the cash flows.
will allow Candover to publish statutory rules of the Financial Services Authority documents such as these Report and FSA, the regulatory authority that regulates As explained in the Chairmans statement, Accounts on a website instead of sending Candover Partners Limited, and are also the directors have concluded that the out paper copies to all its shareholders.
required to report on their audit of the Company is not currently in a position to financial statements.
Their report is shown make any further commitment to invest By publishing the Report and Accounts, on page 28. alongside the 2008 Fund beyond its existing notices of AGM and other information on a holding in Expro International.
As referred to website Candover can significantly reduce The Board seeks to give a balanced and in the Chairmans statement, the Company the quantity of documentation sent out clear assessment of the Groups position is in discussions with the Limited Partners to shareholders by post.
This will not only and prospects.
Further information is of the Candover 2008 Fund regarding a result in cost savings for Candover but will given in the Chairmans statement and the restructuring of the Fund, which is likely also reduce waste and the impact on the operational and financial reviews on pages to include a temporary suspension of the environment of printing and distributing three to seven.
Although the precise paper reports.
This year, for the first time, outcome cannot be predicted with certainty, we will send paper copies of the Report Going concern the directors have a reasonable expectation and Accounts to those who have indicated Under the Combined Code and applicable that these discussions will result in a they wish to receive paper copies, and will regulation the directors are required to satisfactory agreement being reached with notify other shareholders either by post, satisfy themselves that it is reasonable regard to the Candover 2008 Fund.
or by electronic communications, to presume that the Company is a going according to their instructions of where concern.
The Group has retained advisers to assist and how to access the Report and it in negotiations with holders of the US Accounts on the Candover website The Groups business activities, together private placement bonds issued in 2007. http: www.
with the factors likely to affect its future These negotiations are designed to provide development, performance and position, the Group with more flexibility in its financing Voting policy are set out in the Chairmans statement and arrangements.
The outcome of these As Candovers portfolio companies are the operational review on pages one and negotiations is uncertain.
principally unlisted companies in which three.
The financial position of the Group, its Candover, together with the third party cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing The directors have a reasonable expectation funds managed by Candover, is a significant facilities are described in the financial review that the Group and the Company have shareholder, Candover would usually be on page seven.
In addition, note 25 to the adequate resources to continue as a going a party to all issues requiring shareholder financial statements on page 53 includes concern for the foreseeable future, having approval and would always expect to vote the Groups financial risk management made enquiries and after considering and on such issues.
objectives, its capital management policies taking into account the matters described and procedures, details of its financial above.
For these reasons, they continue to It is the Companys policy with regard instruments and hedging activities and its adopt the going concern basis in preparing to all its investments either made by the exposures to market risk, currency risk, the annual Report and Accounts.
Company alone or alongside third party interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk funds to vote in a prudent and diligent and other price risk.
manner after careful review of each portfolio companys proxy statement on an individual As described in the Chairmans statement basis.
Candovers voting decision is based on page one the current economic on its reasonable judgement of what will environment has weakened Candovers best serve the financial interests of the financial position.
The Group has reported Companys shareholders and third party a significant drop in net asset value and the investors and Candover will not subordinate worsening economic background as well as the economic interests of its shareholders volatile financial markets may lead to further and third party investors to any other entity declines in valuation.
The directors consider or interested party in determining such that the outlook presents significant a vote.
challenges in terms of realising existing Candover 22 Report and accounts 2008 Internal control Appropriate members of staff are aware of The Board delegates responsibility for the Under the terms of the Combined Code and the internal controls and are also collectively effectiveness of such controls to senior applicable regulation the Board is required accountable for the operation of those management, who in turn ensure the to review the effectiveness of Candovers controls.
completion of the required procedures.
internal controls including its financial, These key procedures involve: operational and compliance controls and Management are supported by the Board of analysis of potential investments leading, risk management.
The Board continues non-executive directors who, in conjunction where appropriate, to the preparation of to apply the procedures necessary to with the Companys auditors, Grant a full investment report: comply with the requirements of the Thornton UK LLP, and the auditors of the regular monitoring of completed Turnbull Committee guidelines Internal managed funds, KPMG LLP, carry out an investments by executives, who make Control Guidance for Directors on the external review of the Companys financial progress reports to the appropriate Combined Code.
controls and also those of the funds which Board: Candover manages.
KPMG LLP and Grant a comprehensive system for reporting During the year Candover appointed KPMG Thornton UK LLP carry out their review only financial results to the Board five times LLP to undertake a review of Candovers to the extent necessary to give their audit per year and more if appropriate gives internal controls.
actual results compared to budget.
a revised risk register and a revised risk Towards the end of each financial year assessment process were adopted.
Identification and evaluation of detailed budgets for the following year Risk management and monitoring are business risk are prepared and are reviewed by the embedded in the operating committees The key business risk at Candover Board: and within the business, rather than being remains the identification and evaluation a review of these financial controls is dealt with by a separate risk committee.
of our investments and this is achieved carried out by the audit committee twice a Risk management is co-ordinated by a by a comprehensive study of potential year and by Candovers external auditors risk manager, who is charged with overall investments by executives in conjunction to the extent necessary for expressing responsibility for risk and is accountable to with outside resources provided by their audit opinion.
the executive committee and, ultimately, market research specialists, lawyers and the Board.
An investment report is then Although no system of internal control can prepared and, in the case of an investment provide absolute assurance against material Candovers system of internal control by one of the managed funds, is sent to the misstatement or loss, the Companys includes, inter alia, the overall control Board of Candover Partners Limited or an system is designed to assist the directors environment, the procedures for appropriate committee for their decision in obtaining reasonable assurance that identification and evaluation of business as to whether or not to proceed: and in the problems are identified on a timely basis risk, the control procedures themselves case of other investments, a report is sent to and dealt with appropriately.
and the review of these internal controls by the Board of Candover Investments plc or the audit committee on behalf of the Board.
an appropriate sub-committee of the Board.
Audit committee and auditors Each of these elements that make up the The Board has delegated authority for Companys system of internal control is The responsibility for identification of reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups explained in further detail below: other business risks is delegated to senior internal controls to its audit committee.
The management, who advise the Board of any audit committee receives monitoring reports Control environment material risks.
on a six-monthly basis from the Company Candover is dependent upon the Secretariat or the compliance director with quality and integrity of the Companys Control procedures regard to the operational aspects of internal management and staff and highly qualified The main areas of control relate to the controls over the areas of key risk identified, and able staff have been selected at all investments that Candover makes and which include FSA regulatory matters.
The long service record of many the financial controls that enable the Chairman of the audit committee reports senior Candover executives helps to ensure Board to meet its responsibilities for the on the review of internal controls and any that knowledge and experience is retained integrity and accuracy of the Groups matters arising to the Board at the following within the Company and passed on to new accounting records.
In February 2008 the employees, thereby providing continuity committee reviewed the operation of the and renewal.
New executives are recruited Companys internal controls in the period when appropriate in order to aid the July to December 2007.
Shortly thereafter, Companys development and growth.
KPMG LLP were appointed to help review the processes by which internal controls are implemented and assessed This review was completed in September 2008, and KPMGs recommendations were broadly accepted.
Candover 23 Report and accounts 2008 Overview Business review Financial statements and notes Corporate governance continued As required by the Combined Code, the Each of the directors, whose names are audit committee has continued to review recorded on pages 12 and 13, confirms the need for an internal audit function.
Due to the best of his knowledge a that the to the size of Candover, it does not consider Group and Company financial statements an internal audit function appropriate, in this report, which have been prepared although this is kept under review.
However, in accordance with applicable law and a number of internal checks are carried International Financial Reporting Standards out in accordance with the requirements of IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the FSA as well as those checks required give a true and fair view of the assets, to be made to enable the Board to report liabilities, financial position and profit of the in compliance with the Internal Controls Group taken as a whole: and b that the Guidelines, the efficiency of which is directors report contained in this report regularly reviewed.
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and The audit committee considers the scope the position of the Company and the and effectiveness of the Companys Group taken as a whole, together with external auditors.
The Companys auditors, a description of the principal risks and Grant Thornton UK LLP, also provide uncertainties that they face.
non-audit services to the Company, as referred to in note 2 on page 40.
These The directors are responsible for keeping services relate mainly to tax advice and do proper accounting records that disclose not, in the Boards opinion, compromise with reasonable accuracy at any time the independence of Grant Thornton UK the financial position of the Group and LLPs audit team.
The audit committee has Company and enable them to ensure a policy on the provision by the auditors of that the financial statements comply with non-audit services.
This policy recognises the Companies Act 1985 and where three categories into which non-audit applicable 2006.
They are also responsible services may fall, namely work from which for safeguarding the assets of the Group the external auditors are excluded, work for and Company and hence for taking which the auditors can be engaged without reasonable steps for the prevention and referral to the audit committee, and work for detection of fraud and other irregularities.
which a case-by-case decision by the audit committee is necessary.
Pursuant to section 234ZA 2 of the Companies Act 1985 each of the directors Statement of directors responsibilities confirms that a so far as he is aware, there Company law requires the directors to is no relevant audit information of which the prepare financial statements for each Companys auditors are unaware: and b financial year which give a true and fair he has taken all steps that he ought to have view of the state of affairs of the Group and taken as a director to make himself aware Company and of the profit or loss of the of any relevant audit information and to Group for that period.
In preparing these establish that the auditors are aware of that financial statements, the directors are information.
required to: select suitable accounting policies and The directors are responsible for the apply them consistently: maintenance and integrity of the corporate make judgements and estimates that are and financial information included on the reasonable and prudent: Companys website.
Legislation in the state whether applicable accounting United Kingdom governing the preparation standards have been followed, subject and dissemination of financial statements to any material departures disclosed and may differ from legislation in other explained in the financial statements: and jurisdictions.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is By order of the Board inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Philip Price Company Secretary 20th March, 2009 Candover 24 Report and accounts 2008
