AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2008 INTRODUCTION MEETINGS This report to shareholders has been prepared in accordance The Committee historically met three times a year but met with the requirements of paragraph C. 3.3 of the Combined Code four times in 2008.
As explained in the Executive Chairmans on Corporate Governance and paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the Statement, the Committee took responsibility for investigating Guidance on Audit Committees produced by Sir Robert Smith.
the serious issues which arose in 2009 and therefore met on This report gives details of the work of the Committee in numerous occasions during 2009. discharging its responsibilities in 2008.
All members of the Audit Committee attended each of the four meetings held in 2008, except for A J McWalter who was unable TERMS OF REFERENCE to attend the extra meeting held in December 2008, which was The Committees terms of reference, which could be found on arranged at short notice, due to another pre-existing business the Companys website, are reviewed annually by the commitment.
The external auditor, the Chairman of the Board, Committee and any changes are approved by the Board.
the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Managing The main responsibilities of the Committee set out in the terms Director of WFS also attended all meetings of the Committee in of reference were: 2008.
The internal auditors and the Chief Operating officer attended all meetings except the extra meeting held in Reviewing the form and content of the Groups financial December 2008.
The external auditors and internal auditors had statements and accounting policies.
a condential discussion with members of the Committee Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls without the executive directors being present during part of and risk management systems.
Reviewing the Groups arrangements for employees to raise WORK OF THE COMMITTEE concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in The Committee discharged its duties in 2008 as follows: financial reporting and other matters.
At its meetings in February and August, the Committee Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups reviewed the Companys preliminary announcement and internal audit function in the context of the Groups overall Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended risk management system.
31 December 2007 and interim announcement for the Considering and making recommendations to the Board in six months ended 30 June 2008 respectively.
At each of these relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of meetings the Committee received a report from the external the Groups external auditors.
auditors setting out any accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention.
Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, including but not limited to approving their remuneration, A report from the internal auditors was reviewed at the assessing annually their independence and objectivity taking meetings in February, August and December.
The Committee into account relevant professional and regulatory considered the internal auditors work plan for 2009 at its requirements and the relationship with the auditors as a December meeting.
The Committee considered the external whole, including the provision of any non-audit services.
auditors pre-year end issues report at its December meeting and their audit plan at its August meeting.
MEMBERSHIP At its August meeting the Committee reviewed the final report The four independent non-executive directors, M A Young as of the Risk Management Group, which comprised the chairman, D A Haxby, F R Dee and A J McWalter were members executive directors and other key members of senior of the Committee throughout 2008. management including risk specialists and considered the key The chairman of the Committee in 2008, M A Young, qualied risks facing the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups and practised as a Chartered Accountant and has significant internal controls to manage and reduce the impact of those financial and accounting knowledge and experience.
was previously chairman of the audit committee of Uniq plc At its February and August meetings the Committee 2003 to 2007, a member of the supervisory board and audit considered the annual and half-yearly risk and compliance committee of Numico 2006 to 2007 and a managing director reports produced by the Treasury & Risk Director in relation of Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette and then Credit Suisse First to the year ended 31 December 2007 and six months ended Boston 1997 to 2001 and a director of NatWest Markets 30 June 2008 respectively.
The Committee reviewed the fees paid to the external auditors On 15 July 2009, D A Haxby was appointed as chairman of the for audit and non-audit services at all its meetings and at its Committee in place of M A Young who ceased to be a member February meeting it assessed the external auditors of the Committee following her appointment as Executive independence and made a recommendation to the Board as Chairman of the Company on 30 June 2009.
D A Haxby qualied to the appointment or re-appointment of the auditors at the and practised as a Chartered Accountant FCA and has 2008 Annual General Meeting.
significant financial and accounting knowledge and experience.
D A Haxby was managing partner of the London ofce of Arthur In December 2008, in addition to the scheduled meeting, the Andersen 1991 to 1995 and chairman of the Audit Committee Committee held an extra meeting to discuss various questions of SIG plc 2003 to 2009. raised by members of the Audit Committee relating to certain impairment issues.
The other members of the Committee have a wide range of business experience which is evidenced in their biographical details on page 13.
18 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 The main activities of the Committee in 2009 were as follows:  LLP commenced the audit of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Following the extra meeting of the Committee in December However, on 20 February 2009 the Company announced a delay 2008 M A Young and other members of the Committee in the release of its preliminary results announcement for the continued to raise questions in relation to certain impairment year ended 31 December 2008 pending the completion of issues with the executive directors, senior management, and a review of the adequacy of its impairment provisions.
The members of the Committee Subsequently, the Impairment Review commissioned by the also discussed the impairment issues with the internal Committee confirmed the Boards belief that there had been auditors.
a breakdown of internal controls which resulted in the Groups At its 19 February 2009 meeting PwC reported to members of impairment policies being applied incorrectly.
the Committee that they could not give an unqualied opinion  LLPs work on the audit of the financial on the draft 2008 financial statements due to their concerns statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 was put on about the Groups impairment policy and the size of the hold pending the completion of the Impairment Review and in impairment provision.
As a result the Company announced a November 2009 the Board asked  LLP delay in the publication of its 2008 preliminary results pending to resign as auditors.
Given the accounting issues faced by completion of the Impairment Review.
the Company, the Board did not consider it appropriate for  LLP to audit the Companys 2008 At its 2 March 2009 meeting the Committee received a report accounts.
as to Deloittes progress in relation to the Impairment Review and recommended to the Board that the Company should Grant Thornton UK LLP now provides the statutory audit announce that there had been a breakdown in internal services.
controls which had resulted in the Groups impairment policies The external auditors also provide services in respect of the having been applied incorrectly and that 2008 profits were provision of an independent review report on the Companys likely to be substantially lower than had been expected on Interim Results, perform work in their capacity as reporting 20 February 2009.
The Committee also recommended the accountant in accordance with the Prospectus Rules for immediate suspension of three members of WFS senior example, as  LLP did in relation to the management team.
Rights Issue Prospectus issued in April 2008 and provide At its 9 March 2009 meeting the Committee received a further regulatory services and formalities relating to other circulars.
update on the Impairment Review and recommended to the The Audit Committee reviews the auditors performance on an Board that the Company should announce that, based on ongoing basis.
information received to date and subject to completion of its Tax compliance and tax advisory services external audit, the Board believed that the Group would incur Tax compliance involves dealing with the Groups corporation a significant loss before tax for 2008 and that it would be tax returns and in 2008 this work was carried out by necessary to restate the 2007 financial statements.
During 2009, Committee also recommended the immediate suspension of  LLP were replaced by Deloitte LLP who two executive directors and another member of WFS senior now provide these services to the Group.
Tax advisory services include tax planning and structuring advice At its 25 March 2009 meeting the Committee recommended for direct and indirect taxes.
The Groups policy is for each that the Board should consider establishing an incurred but individual assignment to be assessed separately and awarded not reported provision.
depending on which professional services rm is considered At its 30 June 2009 meeting following the conclusion of the best suited to perform the relevant work.
Forensic Review, the Committee recommended the summary Other non-audit services dismissal of the six suspended executive directors and This category includes work relating to due diligence and other Welcome Financial Services senior managers and that non-regulatory reporting.
The Groups normal policy is to disciplinary action be taken in respect of certain other appoint the external auditors to undertake this work because of employees.
In addition, it recommended that a further their knowledge and experience of the business.
However, the executive director should leave the Company with immediate Board reviews their independence and expertise on every effect and, at its November 2009 meeting, following PwCs assignment.
In 2008, this category included work done by resignation at the Companys request as external auditor,  LLP in connection with an aborted the Committee recommended to the Board that Grant acquisition.
Thornton should be appointed as the Companys external auditor to ll the casual vacancy.
The external auditors are not permitted to provide internal audit, risk management, litigation support, remuneration advice INDEPENDENCE OF THE AUDITOR or legal advice services.
The provision of other non-audit services The Audit Committee and the external auditors, both is awarded on a case-by-case basis, depending on which  LLP and now Grant Thornton UK LLP, professional services rm is considered best suited to perform put in place safeguards to avoid the auditors objectivity and the work.
In 2008,  LLP provided independence being compromised.
The Groups policy with advisory services in relation to the Competition Commission regard to services provided by its external auditors is as follows: Enquiry into Payment Protection Insurance.
This work was put out to tender and was won by the external auditors.
Statutory audit services The external auditors are appointed annually by the These safeguards, which are monitored by the Audit Committee, shareholders.
However, Grant Thornton UK LLP, were appointed are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure they remain by the Board on 7 December 2009 to ll the casual vacancy appropriate.
The appointment of the external auditors to following the resignation of  LLP in provide non-audit services requires Board approval for any November 2009. assignments with fees above a set financial limit.
Annual Report and 19 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued INDEPENDENCE OF THE AUDITOR continued The external auditor reports to the Audit Committee each year on the actions it has taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure its independence, including the rotation of key members of the external audit team.
 LLP and now Grant Thornton UK LLP have both formally confirmed their independence to the Board, in respect of the period since their appointment.
The disclosure of the non-audit fees paid to  LLP is included in note 10 to the financial statements.
David Haxby Chairman of the Audit Committee 11 May 2010 20 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008
