NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2008 INTRODUCTION This report to shareholders has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of paragraph A.
4.6 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
This report gives details of the work of the Committee in discharging its responsibilities in 2008.
TERMS OF REFERENCE The Committees terms of reference, which could be found on the Companys website, are reviewed annually by the Committee and any changes are approved by the Board.
The main responsibilities of the Committee set out in the terms of reference were: evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board candidates to ll Board vacancies: and considering proposals for succession planning for directors and other senior executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future.
MEMBERSHIP In 2008, the Committee comprised the Chairman N N Broadhurst, the four independent non-executive directors D A Haxby, F R Dee, A J McWalter and M A Young and the Chief Executive D J Postings, under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board, N N Broadhurst.
There were no changes to the composition of the Committee during 2008.
On 30 June 2009, N N Broadhurst and D J Postings resigned from the Board and M A Young became Executive Chairman of the Company.
M A Young was appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 15 July 2009.
MEETINGS The Committee met formally on four occasions during 2008.
All members of the Committee attended each of the four formal meetings held in 2008.
WORK OF THE COMMITTEE The main work undertaken by the Committee during 2008 was the search for a successor to J J Corr as Finance Director following his intended retirement in 2009.
Margaret Young Chairman of the Nomination Committee 11 May 2010 Annual Report and 21 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc
