CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2008 Throughout the year ended 31 December 2008, the Company monitoring the quality of the investment process against complied with all relevant provisions set out in section 1 of the objectives: 2006 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources: and BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Company is managed through the Board of directors.
The developing and implementing risk management systems.
Boards main roles are to provide leadership of the Company within a framework of controls which seek to enable risk to be THE ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE assessed and managed, to set the Companys strategic aims and In 2008 the division of responsibilities between the to seek to ensure that the necessary financial and human non-executive Chairman of the Board, N N Broadhurst, and the resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
Chief Executive, D J Postings, was clearly dened in writing and had been approved by the Board.
BOARD MEETINGS The Chairman led the Board in the determination of its strategy The table below sets out the total number of meetings of the and in the achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman was Board and its Committees which each director attended during responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring 2008, together with, in brackets, the number he or she was its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman had no eligible to attend.
involvement in the day-to-day business of the Group.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee The Chief Executive had direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and was accountable to the Board for the N N Broadhurst 18 19 7 8 4 4 1 1 D J Postings 19 19 4 4 financial and operational performance of the Group.
M W G Collins 19 19 On 30 June 2009, following N N Broadhursts resignation, J J Corr 19 19 I S Cummine 18 19 MA Young was appointed as Executive Chairman of the D A Haxby 18 19 4 4 8 8 4 4 1 1 Company.
F R Dee 19 19 4 4 8 8 4 4 1 1 A J McWalter 18 19 3 4 8 8 4 4 1 1 SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR M A Young 19 19 4 4 8 8 4 4 1 1 In 2008, D A Haxby continued to perform the role of Senior Independent Director.
D A Haxby was available to meet There are a number of matters specically reserved for Board shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board was approval, which include: aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through the existing approval of the Groups overall business strategy, planning mechanisms for investor communication.
and annual budget: DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE assessment of internal controls and risk management: In 2008, the Board comprised the Chairman, four executive senior management appointments: directors and four independent non-executive directors.
The names of the directors are set out on page 13.
All the directors approval of major contracts and significant acquisitions: served throughout 2008.
The Board included independent investment and capital expenditure decisions: non-executive directors who constructively challenged and helped develop proposals on strategy, and brought strong, corporate governance practices: and independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the approval of the Groups nancing and dividend policies.
The independent directors were of sufficient calibre and number that their views carried At each business as usual Board meeting of which there were significant weight in the Boards decision making.
seven in 2008, there was a full financial and business review and discussion, which included the comparison of trading Independent professional advice is provided at the Companys performance to date against the annual budget and any other expense, when the directors deem it necessary in order for them financial plan which had been previously approved by the Board to carry out their responsibilities.
Each Board member received a comprehensive The Chairman during 2008, N N Broadhurst, held the Board pack prior to each meeting, which incorporated a formal chairmanship of one other listed company but the Board was agenda, together with supporting papers for items to be satisfied that this did not interfere with the performance of his discussed at the meeting.
Board papers were usually sent out duties to the Company which were based around a commitment at the end of the week before the meeting to give the directors of approximately 80 days per annum.
sufficient time to prepare to review the relevant issues at the meeting.
The Board considered all its other non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement.
No independent The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the non-executive director: executive directors: had been an employee of the Group within the previous five the development and recommendation of strategic plans for years: consideration by the Board that reect the longer-term objectives and priorities established by the Board: had, or had had within the previous three years, a material business relationship with the Group: implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group as determined by the Board: received remuneration other than a directors fee from the Group: monitoring of operating and financial results against plans and budgets: had close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, directors or senior employees except for D A Haxby and FR Dee : 14 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 held cross-directorships or had significant links with other to conditions in certain cases, in accordance with the procedures directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The authorisations were given by those directors who had no represented a significant shareholder: or interest in the relevant matter and, in taking those decisions, had served on the Board for more than nine years except for those directors acted in a way they considered, in good faith, D A Haxby.
would be most likely to promote the Companys success.
D A Haxbys daughter is a corporate finance partner in the A list of these authorised potential conicts of interest was Manchester ofce of Hammonds LLP whose Leeds ofce provided included in the papers for all regularly scheduled Board legal advice to the Group in relation to certain information meetings for the rest of 2008 and the directors were requested technology projects during 2008.
In addition, DA Haxby reached to notify any new actual or potential conicts of interest or nine years service as a non-executive director on 1 July 2008. where an authorised potential conict was no longer relevant.
Nevertheless the other directors determined that D A Haxby Actual or potential conicts of interest are also considered on should continue to be considered to be an independent the appointment of a new director.
non-executive director because his daughter was not involved in the Groups account in any way as she worked in a different PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT department and ofce, he continued to be independent in On appointment, the directors take part in an induction character and judgement and none of the other relationships programme when they receive information about the Group, or circumstances set out in provision A.
3.1 of the 2006 FRC the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, Combined Code on Corporate Governance applied to him.
the terms of reference and membership of the principal Board Committees, together with the powers delegated to those F R Dees son is an employee of Scott Harris UK Limited, an Committees, the Groups corporate governance practices and investor relations consultancy, which carried out an assignment procedures, and the latest financial information about the for the Company during 2008.
Nevertheless, the other directors Group.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and determined that F R Dee should continue to be considered to be meetings with key senior executives.
During their period in an independent non-executive director, because his son was not ofce the directors are updated on the Groups business, the involved in the assignment and he continued to be independent competitive, legal and regulatory environment in which it in character and judgement and none of the other relationships operates and other changes affecting the Group and the or circumstances set out in the provision A.
3.1 of the 2006 FRC financial services industry by written briengs and Board Combined Code on Corporate Governance applied to him.
Directors are also updated JJ Corrs son was an employee of Brilliant Media Limited, a major on changes to their legal and other duties and obligations as supplier of media advice and services to WFS.
Brilliant Media directors of a listed company.
The directors received a written Limited was already a major supplier to WFS when J J Corrs son brieng on the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating joined that company.
J J Corr declared this interest to the Cattles to directors conicts of interest which came into force on and WFS boards which approved the arrangement, subject to 1 October 2008.
JJ Corrs son not working on the WFS account.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board has established a formal process led by the Chairman Since 1 October 2008 the directors have been under a statutory for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its duty under section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a principal Committees and the individual directors, with situation in which they have, or could have, a conict of interest or a particular attention being paid to those who are due for possible conict of interest with the Companys interests.
The directors are made aware, on appointment there will be no breach of this duty if the relevant matter has been that their performance will be subject to an evaluation.
authorised in advance by the directors.
As they are directors of a For 2008, the directors completed a questionnaire which was public company, the directors can only authorise the matter if they circulated by the Company Secretary and was designed to gain are permitted to do so by the Companys constitution.
an insight into how well the Board and the Audit, Remuneration At the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2008, the Companys and Nomination Committees were meeting their objectives.
Articles of Association were amended with effect from 1 October The Company Secretary then collated the completed results 2008 so as to permit the directors to authorise actual or potential from the questionnaires and presented the consolidated results directors conicts of interests, subject to certain safeguards.
Before the new rules came into force on 1 October 2008 the For 2008, individual written personal objectives in relation to directors received a detailed written brieng on the new rules their management roles were prepared at the beginning of the about conicts of interest and were requested to notify the year by each executive director.
After agreement with the Chief Company Secretary of any actual or potential conicts of Executive, and in the case of the Chief Executive with the interest pertaining to them.
Chairman, these objectives were submitted to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and approval on behalf of the The Board considered the disclosed actual or potential conicts Board.
The Chief Executive conducted an annual appraisal of the of interest and concluded that although none of these matters performance of the other executive directors which included an would give risk to an actual conict of interest, because the assessment of their individual performance against their term conict of interest was not dened in the legislation and personal objectives and a formal interview.
The same process in view of the serious consequences of failing to authorise a was conducted by the Chairman in respect of the Chief matter which was subsequently held to be a conict of interest, Executive.
The extent to which executive directors personal it would be prudent for the independent directors to authorise objectives had been achieved was determined during this review these potential conicts of interest.
process, the results of which were submitted to, and taken into Accordingly, at a Board meeting held on 1 October 2008 the account by, the Remuneration Committee in nalising the directors authorised these potential conicts of interest, subject executive directors bonuses for the year.
Annual Report and 15 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued RE-ELECTION RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Any director who has been appointed by the directors since In 2008, the Board maintained a close relationship with the the last Annual General Meeting must stand for re-appointment Companys major shareholders.
The Chief Executive, Finance as a director by the shareholders at the next Annual General Director, Treasury & Risk Director and Chief Operating officer Meeting.
At each Annual General Meeting one-third of the maintained regular contact with major institutional directors excluding, for this purpose, any director who must shareholders, who were offered a personal meeting with the stand for re-appointment or, if their number is not a multiple Chief Executive and other executive directors at least twice each of three, then the number nearest to but not less than year.
The Chairman usually attended the presentations to one-third, are required to retire from ofce and, if they so analysts of the Companys Interim and Final Results and all wish, stand for re-election.
The re-appointment of directors major shareholders were offered a personal meeting with the who have served for more than nine years is subject to annual Chairman and Senior Independent Director, if they so required.
review and re-election by the shareholders.
At the Annual Major shareholders were also given the opportunity to meet General Meeting held on 29 July 2009, F R Dee, D A Haxby and new non-executive directors on their appointment and to A J McWalter were re-elected, and J R Drummond Smith was provide non-attributed feedback to the Board through re-appointed, as directors.
discussions with the Companys stockbrokers, HSBC Bank plc and CitiGroup Global Markets Limited.
COMPANY SECRETARY As required by the Combined Code, the Chairman relayed to The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board the Board any issues raised with him by shareholders.
This through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The directors was supplemented by a report by the Chief Executive of have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
shareholders views following the presentations of the Interim The Companys Articles of Association and the schedule of and Final Results.
The directors also received reports from the matters reserved to the Board for decision provide that the Companys advisers on the markets views of the Company both appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter before and after the announcement of the Interim and Final for the full Board.
Results and copies of analysts reports.
STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Annual General Meeting is seen as an opportunity to In 2008, the Board had established four standing Committees, communicate with other shareholders and all directors are each with formal terms of reference, being the Audit Committee, expected to attend.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The terms of reference were published on In addition to regular financial reporting, significant matters the Companys website, www.
The Company relating to the trading or development of the Group are Secretary acts as secretary to all four standing Committees.
disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
co. uk, AUDIT COMMITTEE included a section focusing specically on investor relations, Details of the Audit Committee and its activities during 2008 and all Stock Exchange announcements are accessible on the are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 18 to 20. website once made within the newsroom section.
In addition, the materials used in the presentations to analysts of the REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Companys Interim and Final Results and the webcasts of these Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during presentations were also available on the website after the 2008 and the Groups remuneration policy are set out in the presentations had been made.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 30.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT NOMINATION COMMITTEE The directors believe that the Annual Report and Financial Details of the Nomination Committee and its activities during Statements present a balanced and understandable assessment 2008 are set out in the Nomination Committee Report on of the Groups financial position and prospects.
Chairmans Statement and the Business and Financial Review, together provide a detailed assessment of the Groups affairs.
RISK COMMITTEE The directors responsibilities for the financial statements are In 2008, the Board established the Risk Committee which met described in the Directors Report on page 33.
The Companys for the first time in December 2008. financial statements are reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to being submitted to the Board for approval.
WFS REGULATORY OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE WFS, the Companys largest subsidiary and the owner of INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT Welcome, Welcome Car Finance and Shopacheck, is regulated The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups by the FSA in relation to general insurance business.
In 2007, internal control system, which is designed to safeguard following discussions with the FSA about WFS corporate shareholders investment and the Companys assets, and governance arrangements, the Company and WFS established embraces all risks faced by the Group, including business, the WFS Regulatory Oversight Committee.
The purpose of the financial, operational and compliance risks.
The directors WFS Regulatory Oversight Committee was to provide oversight recognise, however, that there are inherent limitations in any to the operation of WFS.
Following the decision to establish the system of internal control and as such the controls can provide Risk Committee, the WFS Regulatory Oversight Committee met only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material for the last time in October 2008 and was then disbanded.
Details of the breakdown in internal controls, which was discovered during 2009, are set out in the Executive Chairmans Statement.
16 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 The Group has sought to comply with the guidance provided by Adoption of a schedule of matters specically reserved for the the Financial Reporting Council in a document entitled Internal approval of the Board to seek to ensure that it maintained Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code control over appropriate financial, strategic, organisational and October 2005 Turnbull guidance, through an ongoing process compliance issues.
As described above, the Board identied a to identify and evaluate key areas of risk, both financial and number of key areas, which were subject to regular reporting non-financial, the Groups perceived tolerance or commercial to the Board.
appetite towards such risks and the policies and procedures The Board also reviewed the role of insurance in managing which should be adopted in order to manage the likely exposure risks across the Group.
and to review the operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal control system.
This process, which was in place As already explained in the Executive Chairmans Statement, throughout 2008, is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords in February 2009, as soon as it became clear that there was an with the Turnbull guidance.
issue with the Groups impairment provision, the Audit Committee commissioned Deloitte to conduct an independent The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the operation review of the Groups impairment policies and their application and effectiveness of the internal control system on at least a in the Companys accounts.
Deloitte were instructed to help six monthly basis and reporting to the Board thereon.
Such establish the quantum of the impairment provision.
Deloittes reviews were conducted in 2008.
The principal features of the principal nding was that, as a result of a breakdown in internal Groups internal control system in 2008 can be summarised controls, the Groups impairment policies had been incorrectly as follows: applied.
This resulted in impairments being materially Primary responsibility of the Board to seek to identify the understated and profits materially overstated.
Further details of major business risks facing the Group and to develop the financial impact of Deloittes findings are set out in the appropriate policies for the management of those risks.
The Business and Financial Review.
Board, however, recognises that the internal control system is In addition to the Impairment Review, the Audit Committee designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure commissioned an independent forensic review carried out by to achieve business objectives.
Details of the breakdown in Freshelds with the assistance of Deloitte.
The predominant internal controls, which was discovered during 2009, are set reason for the Forensic Review was to enable the Audit out in the Executive Chairmans Statement.
Committee to assess and take legal advice on liability and A clearly dened organisational structure with lines of related issues.
The Audit Committee also thought the Forensic responsibility and delegation of authority to divisional Review was important for a number of other reasons: executive management supported by established policies and to enable the Company to understand what happened and procedures.
to take steps to ensure it could not happen again: The engagement of a leading rm of professional advisers for to enable the Company to identify any individuals who either the provision of a range of internal audit services, with a direct posed a risk to the Company or who were otherwise culpable reporting line to the Audit Committee.
in what happened, and to determine what action should be The Risk Committee, which met for the first time in December taken against individual employees: and 2008, reviewed and approved key elements of the Groups risk to be able to give an independent account of the matter to management arrangements and the Group risk appetite and the Financial Services Authority FSA and any other interested provided an appropriate level of reporting of the status of risk regulatory bodies.
management within the Group to the Board.
Further details of the results of the Forensic Review and The Risk Committee was assisted in the discharge of its subsequent actions taken, are set out in the Executive responsibilities by the Risk Oversight Committee, a committee Chairmans Statement.
of executive directors, which met for the first time in November 2008, and replaced the Risk Management Group which met for the last time in June 2008.
The Risk Oversight Committees duties included producing proposals for identifying, measuring and mitigating potential risks to ensure that they stayed within the limits of the Groups risk appetite and producing Group risk policies for review and approval by the Risk Committee.
Margaret Young Arrangements by which employees of the Group may raise Executive Chairman concerns in confidence about possible improprieties in matters 11 May 2010 of financial reporting or other matters, together with arrangements for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action and reporting to the Board.
Operation of a comprehensive planning and financial reporting system, which covered income, expenditure, cash ows and balance sheets.
Annual budgets and medium-term plans were approved by the Board and monitored against actual performance on a monthly basis to identify any significant deviation from approved plans.
The annual budget was reviewed and reforecast on a regular basis.
Annual Report and 17 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc
