Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 58 58 Corporate Governance Report Set out below are statements on how the Company Chaucer Holdings PLC or CHP has applied the Main and Supporting Principles of the Combined Code which is available at www.
The Company complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year, except as indicated below.
The principal structure of the Group consists of a listed holding company the Company and one main trading subsidiary, Chaucer Syndicates Limited CSL, a regulated Lloyds managing agency first incorporated in 1922.
As outlined below, the Companys Board determines major strategic and Group management decisions, while the CSL Board determines matters regarding Lloyds and FSA regulation and day-to-day operations.
To assist it in the discharge of its responsibilities, the Companys Board has established three Committees, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and the Investment Committee now reports solely to the CHP Board.
The Terms of Reference of those Committees except for the Investment Committee are available on the Companys website and on request from the Secretary, and their operation is set out below.
The Executive Directors meet on a weekly basis as the Management Committee to discuss key issues affecting the Group.
During the year, the Directors have considered the Groups Governance arrangements and the following actions have resulted: Richard Scholes was appointed a director of Chaucer Syndicates Limited, the Groups significant operating company, with effect from 1 January 2009.
It is expected that any replacement to Bob Deutsch would also be so appointed.
The intention is to further strengthen the non-executive director NED presence on that board, and to increase the degree of NED overlap between the CSL and CHP boards: The timing of the CSL board meetings has been adjusted to coincide with the technical Expert Review meetings, which are already attended by the CSL NEDs: The formally constituted committees of the CSL Board are being reviewed, in particular to consider function, membership and purpose.
To date, the Operations Board has been disbanded as a formal Committee to improve focus on individual executive responsibility.
Any further results of that review will be disclosed in the 2009 Report.
The description below sets out the current position: and Governance and controls around investment management have been considered and various actions implemented.
Further details are on page 59.
The main executive committees are the Underwriting Board, Investment Committee, Finance Committee, Risk & Capital Committee, Third Party Management Committee and Security Committee.
Pages 59 to 63 outline the structure and responsibilities of those committees.
Board and Committee structure Chaucer Holdings PLC Audit Remuneration Nomination Investment Committee Committee Committee Committee Joint Committees Finance Risk & Capital Committee Committee Chaucer Syndicates Third Party Limited Underwriting Security Management Board Committee Committee The Board, Directors and Independence The Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, three executive and two non-executive directors NEDs.
The Nomination Committee considered in November 2008 the number of directors and their breadth of business experience and skills and concluded that they were appropriate for the Groups operations, subject to the appointment of a replacement independent NED consequent to the planned resignation of Bob Deutsch on 31 December 2008.
The balance and experience of the Directors ensure that no individual or small group of individuals are in a position to dominate the Boards decisions.
The Chairman is mainly responsible for the running of the Board: he ensures that all directors receive sufficient and timely relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues which is circulated a week in advance of meetings.
The Chief Executives responsibilities focus on co-ordinating the Companys business and implementing Group strategy.
All directors are able to take independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties if necessary.
It is responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects and consideration of significant financing matters.
It approves the Group Risk Policy for development and implementation by the Risk & Capital Committee, which monitors the exposure to key business risks and the systems in place to achieve this in accordance with The Turnbull Guidance.
The Board reviews the strategic direction of individual trading subsidiaries, their annual budgets, current trading, progress towards achievement of those budgets and capital expenditure programmes.
The Board also considers environmental and employee issues and key appointments.
In accordance with the Code, Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 59 59 Corporate Governance Report all directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
The table below shows the members of the Board as at 31 December 2008, the number of meetings held and individual member attendance during the year.
Board member Number of Board meetings attended total 8 M J Gilbert Chairman 7 R V Deutsch resigned 31 12 08 6 C D Forbes 8 E H Gilmour 8 M C Graham 8 R T Scholes 8 R A Stuchbery 8 In addition to these meetings, an executive committee of the Board held a number of meetings to deal largely with matters delegated to it regarding the operation of the Companys share schemes and conversion of loan stock.
The Board of Directors considers that Messrs Forbes and Scholes are independent of management, as was Mr Deutsch until his resignation.
The Company therefore met the Small Company requirement to have at least two independent non-executive directors.
The Company was elected into the FTSE 250 on 22 December 2008, thereby losing Small Company status, and Mr Deutsch resigned on 31 December 2008.
Consequently, from 1 January 2009, the Company has been one independent NED short of the number required under the Code.
The announcement on 27 January 2009 that the Company was in an offer period has stayed the hand of the Directors in rectifying that position until the future of the Company has been determined.
Mr Forbes is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board considers that the requirement of the Combined Code to evaluate the Board, all Committees and all directors every year to be too onerous for a Company the size of Chaucer.
Nonetheless, during the year Executive Directors were subject to individual performance evaluations and a short self assessment questionnaire was completed regarding performance evaluation of each of the Board as a whole and the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Performance Evaluations were not concluded in 2008 for the Nomination Committee or the Non-executive directors.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee Report, which follows this report, includes details of its membership, activities and responsibilities.
Nomination Committee During the year, the Committee considered and made recommendations to the Board in a number of areas.
These included the re-election of Messrs Gilmour, Graham and Scholes as directors due to retire at the 2009 AGM, the independence of the NEDs, the time requirements of NEDs concluding that they continue to devote sufficient time to their duties and reviewed the size, structure and composition of the Board.
In November 2008, the Committee considered and recommended to the Board the extension by three years of Richard Scholes letter of appointment to the AGM in 2012.
The Board accepted and approved those recommendations.
The Nomination Committee has access to independent professional advice and is entitled to seek any information it requires from any employee.
Details of Committee members and the number of meetings attended in 2008 are as follows: Committee member Number of Committee meetings attended total 3 M J Gilbert Chairman 2 R V Deutsch resigned 31 12 08 2 C D Forbes 3 R T Scholes 3 In addition to the formal meetings held, members of the Nomination Committee discussed the matters delegated to it by the Board on other occasions during the year.
Remuneration Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Investment Committee The Committee was a joint committee of the CHP and CSL Boards, met approximately five times a year and during 2008 had responsibility for the formation and implementation of investment strategy and tactics in respect of both corporate and syndicate investment funds and dealt with various administrative matters.
Since the year end, the Terms of Reference, membership and reporting lines of the Investment Committee have been reviewed and various actions implemented.
The thrust of those changes is that all CHP directors will become members of the Committee which will be responsible for the determination of investment strategy and tactics, leaving the executive with responsibility for implementation and administration.
New investment advisers have been appointed and will attend Committee meetings.
The Committee will now report solely to the CHP board.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 60 60 Corporate Governance Report Accountability and Audit FINANCIAL REPORTING The Company presented its financial position and prospects during the year in a number of ways to ensure shareholders and potential shareholders could make a balanced and understandable assessment.
This included: Annual Report and Accounts, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, which include an operating and financial review, and statements on directors responsibilities and going concern Interim Report and Accounts Interim Management Statements Announcements regarding developments which may affect the share price of the company are made as and when necessary and Syndicate accounts filed with Lloyds, which are also public documents The Board approved these reports before publication, following their review and recommendation by the appropriate Board Committees including the Audit Committee and Finance Committee.
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Chaucer is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has complied throughout the year with the principles set out in the Turnbull guidance for Internal Control.
The CHP Board acknowledges that the Risk Management Framework RMF, which is described in detail below and other internal controls can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The CHP Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls including the RMF in addition to other reviews and procedures that are ongoing throughout the year.
The annual review was conducted by the Risk Officer and reported to the board of CSL, and the Audit Committee on behalf of CHP.
An Internal Audit was conducted on the work of the Risk Assurance Group to provide further comfort.
Following the significant investment losses incurred largely during September and October 2008, the Risk Officer was commissioned to review the operations of both the Investment Committee and Risk & Capital Committee and the related components of the risk management framework.
The Risk Officers recommendations have been considered by the CHP and CSL Boards and the Audit, Investment and Risk & Capital Committees.
Whilst it was recognised that the events in the global financial markets were exceptional, a number of the Risk Officers recommendations have been accepted and have been or are in the process of being implemented.
These include the appointment as investment advisers to the CHP Board of Mercer Investment Consulting and Paul Berriman.
Mr Berriman is currently an Executive Director of Oxford Investment Partners, a fund management company set up to manage the investment portfolios of a number of Oxford colleges.
Prior to this he was the Chief Executive of Deutsche Asset Management in the UK, with responsibility for over 50bn of assets managed on behalf of pension funds, insurance companies and high net worth individuals, and was formerly Global Head of Fixed Income at the same organisation.
Furthermore, the investment portfolio has been substantially fide-risked, a process that continues.
Current financial markets support, at least in the short term, significant holdings of cash, cash equivalents, government bonds and government guaranteed bonds.
Asset allocation benchmarks shall continue to be reviewed regularly.
Risk governance Risk governance operated through the following structure of Boards, Committees and Departments: Chaucer Holdings PLC The Chaucer Holdings PLC Board is ultimately responsible for setting risk strategy, for overseeing the management of risk and for ensuring the adequacy and efficacy of capital to support the risks across the business.
Chaucer Syndicates Limited The Board of Chaucer Syndicates is responsible for supporting the Chaucer Holdings PLC Board in the management of risk to defined risk appetite or risk tolerance levels and is primarily focused on the management of risks faced by our Lloyds managing agency and all managed syndicates, including third-party management syndicates.
Risk & Capital Committee To fulfil these risk governance roles effectively, the Boards of Chaucer Holdings PLC and Chaucer Syndicates Limited have delegated the oversight of the management of risks to a Risk & Capital Committee RCC, which is responsible for the implementation of risk policy across the business.
The RCC oversees the development of on-going risk identification, risk assessment and mitigation strategies and the overall operation of the RMF.
The membership of the Committee and its work regarding capital management are described on page 63.
The Risk Assurance Group The Risk Assurance Group, headed by the Risk Officer, supports the Boards and the RCC by working in partnership with the business to build effective risk management processes.
The Risk Assurance Group comprises Risk Management, Internal Audit and Compliance teams, which, together, provide guidance, support and monitoring of risk management effectiveness across the business.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 61 61 Corporate Governance Report The main objectives of the Risk Assurance Group are as follows: Instil a culture of risk awareness and controlled risk taking throughout the business Ensure internal and external risks to the Group are identified, consistently evaluated and clearly communicated Act as a link between the risk management framework and optimal capital utilisation Provide independent control environment assurance and advice Facilitate positive regulatory relationships Ensure regulatory compliance requirements are met Risk Management The Risk Management team focuses primarily on the threat to the achievement of our stated business objectives through the operation of the RMF.
Risk Management work in partnership with the business to identify and assess key risks and ensure that appropriate mitigations and controls are in place and are operating effectively.
Risk Management provides monthly reports to the RCC on risk exposure areas, performance of mitigations and controls and the overall development of the RMF.
Internal Audit Reporting to the Audit Committee, the objective of our Internal Audit team is to provide independent and objective assurance of business processes, procedures and governance through the evaluation of adequacy and effectiveness of controls.
Our Internal Audit team applies a targeted risk-based audit approach, focusing on those internal controls that most mitigate the risks faced by the business.
The Audit Committee reviews and approves the annual internal audit plan.
The Internal Audit team works closely with the Risk Management team to coordinate audit activity.
Compliance The Compliance function monitors regulatory compliance with Lloyds, FSA and international requirements and manages our exposure to regulatory risks.
Compliance works in partnership with the business through a Compliance Committee, whose members include appointed representatives from key areas of the business.
The Risk Management Framework A risk management framework has been developed to ensure that risks are identified, assessed, managed and monitored.
Risk ownership Responsibility for the day-to-day management of risks and the design and operation of risk mitigations and internal controls is assigned to an individual risk owner usually a Director but with the support of operational boards and committees across the business.
The table below summarises the key risks arising from business activities, identifies the relevant risk-owning committee s and references where the Annual Report provides further discussion on the management of these risks.
FSA classification Risks Risk owning Board or Committee Risk discussion Page Insurance Underwriting Underwriting Board 88 Claims 90 Reserving Finance Committee 93 Reinsurance Underwriting Board 91 Credit Reinsurers Security Committee 100 Intermediaries 100 Investments Investment Committee 96 Financial Market Interest rate fluctuations Investment Committee 97 Currency fluctuations 98 Investment fluctuations 97 Liquidity Insurance calls on cash Finance Committee 99 Non-insurance calls on cash 99 Operational People Risk & Capital Committee 40 Systems and processes 60 Group Capital adequacy Risk & Capital Committee 45 Financial strength 45 Risk identification and risk assessment Each risk owner is responsible for the identification of risk, with support from the Risk Management team and the framework of risk owning committees.
Business risks are analysed in accordance with the principal risk categories defined by the FSA, and each risk owner is responsible for the evaluation of risk in terms of impact and probability.
Risk Management assists and challenges the risk owners in the assessment of risk.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 62 62 Corporate Governance Report The following table summarises the main risk categories facing the business.
Risk category Risk objective Comments Insurance Optimise risk returns within appetite Insurance risk is the dominant risk faced by the business as our core business activity is the evaluation and acceptance of underwriting risk for return Credit Minimise risk exposure while We only use internally approved brokers and reinsurers that meet our quality achieving optimal trade-off assessment criteria with insurance risk 1 Financial Market Optimise risk returns within appetite Our portfolio comprises assets that are well diversified and liquid.
We determine asset allocations, according to set risk constraints 1 Liquidity Minimise risk exposure We maintain a strong cash flow position and highly liquid investments Operational including Minimise risk exposure We are committed to high standards of internal control that are regularly legal and regulatory risk monitored and tested Group Minimise risk exposure The risks associated with being part of a group are generally low, although the activities of managed syndicates and our overseas offices create exposure 1 The remaining hedge funds are not as liquid as other investment classes due to the existence of various redemption restrictions Risk monitoring and reporting Risks are monitored through a combination of risk or control indicators, self-certification procedures and regular meetings between business representatives and Risk Management.
Risk Management maintains a risk register and a log of issues, control failures or near misses, which encompasses existing, emerging and future risks, and includes a materiality assessment of each items potential exposure to the business.
Risk Management reports to the RCC and both Risk Management and the risk-owning committees report to the Chaucer Syndicates Board.
The Risk Officer also provides reports to the Audit Committee, including an annual review of the effectiveness of the RMF.
Risk information produced for the syndicate Individual Capital Assessment process also provides a key source of risk reporting for the Boards.
Managing the risk Each risk owner is responsible for the effective operation of key controls and management of the risk, with support from the Risk Management team.
Risk Management works with the risk owner to develop commercially focussed action plans to achieve the required level of risk or control according to risk appetite.
Risk Management also monitors actions taken, to ensure that the management of risk remains within the risk appetite or tolerance levels set, and reports progress to the RCC.
The Scheme of Delegation, which sets out the decision-making authority levels for individuals, committees and boards across the business, determines where and at what commercial decisions are taken.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages two-way communications with its institutional and private investors and responds quickly to all queries received.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Underwriting Officer, and the Chief Financial Officer attended numerous meetings and maintained contact with analysts, brokers and institutional shareholders during the year.
Subsequent to the announcement in March 2008 of the Companys 2007 results, the Companys stockbroker, Numis, canvassed the views of shareholders and reported to the Directors.
All the Directors except for the Chairman who was unwell attended the Annual General Meeting and the chairs of the Board Committees were available for questions.
While the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other NEDs do not have regular meetings with shareholders, they have expressed their willingness to do so if the shareholders so desire.
The Firm Placing and Placing and Open Offer sent to shareholders on 28 January 2009 has occasioned significant discussion between shareholders and directors, in particular the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Underwriting Officer.
Going concern basis The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Forward Thinking, Joint Chairman and Chief Executives Statement, Underwriting Outlook and Divisional Performance on pages 1 to 37.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Report on pages 44 to 50.
In addition the Corporate Governance Report and notes 2 and 3 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
Consequently, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 63 63 Corporate Governance Report After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgment at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
CSL Board and Joint Committees The FSA, which is responsible for the prudential regulation of the UK insurance industry including Lloyds managing agents and Lloyds, which is responsible for risk management within the market, regulate CSL.
CSL is therefore obliged to comply with the extensive regulations and detailed codes of practice imposed by the FSA and Lloyd's.
Consequently, it has developed a comprehensive system of monitoring, compliance, regulation, risk assessment and overseeing the management of the major risks faced by the business.
The governance structure is regularly reviewed and adjusted to ensure a continued fit to business needs.
The following paragraphs outline the roles and responsibilities of individual boards and committees within the governance structure.
Underwriting Board The Underwriting Board is chaired by the Chief Underwriting Officer: other members include the Active Underwriter of Syndicate 1084 and the heads of each underwriting division.
It meets approximately monthly and reports to the CSL Board.
It has specific responsibility for setting and ensuring delivery of the underwriting strategy for Syndicates 1084 and 1176, and for monitoring all aspects of their underwriting performance.
This includes reviewing and recommending the syndicates annual business plans to the CSL Board, and monitoring actual performance against those plans.
Its objective is to approve capital allocations for individual business classes and to optimise their return on capital employed.
Finance Committee The Finance Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer: other members include the Chief Executive Officer, the CSL Finance Director, and the Group Actuary.
It meets approximately monthly and is a joint Committee of both the CHP and CSL Boards.
It has responsibility for monitoring the financial health of the Group.
It also provides advice and commentary on all relevant material financial matters, including reserves and dividends.
In particular, it has responsibility for the timely and accurate delivery of all financial reporting: developing and implementing policy in respect of cash flow management, credit control, expenses, tax, foreign exchange and capital management: assisting the Risk & Capital Committee in the identification and control of credit, liquidity and financial market, reserving and capital risks.
Risk & Capital Committee The Risk & Capital Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, other members include the Chief Underwriting Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the CSL Risk Officer, and the Active Underwriter of Syndicate 1084.
It meets approximately monthly and is a joint Committee of both the CHP and CSL Boards It has responsibility for the development and implementation of Group risk policy, and for ensuring that the risk policy is consistent with the expectations of capital providers and the limitations imposed by the Society of Lloyds and the FSA.
It also has responsibility for the oversight of risk management throughout the Group, and for ensuring that the risk management framework and capital assessments are consistent with the requirements of the Society of Lloyds and the FSA.
Third Party Management Committee The Third Party Management Committee is chaired by the Chief Underwriting Officer, other members include, the CSL Director for Third Party Syndicates.
It meets approximately monthly and reports to the CSL Board, and where appropriate, to capital providers.
It has responsibility for monitoring all aspects of the underwriting performance of each of the Third Party managed syndicates TPS.
This includes reviewing and recommending the syndicates annual business plans to the Expert Review Committee: setting business class capital allocations: ensuring the efficient operational management of each TPS and run-off syndicate: ensuring that the risks to Chaucer of managing and being associated with TPS are being identified, assessed and appropriately managed.
Security Committee The Security Committee is chaired by the CSL Finance Director, other members include representatives from underwriting, reinsurance, actuarial, and finance.
External consultants assist the Committee.
It has responsibility for managing the exposure to credit risk from reinsurers, brokers, coverholders and other intermediary counterparties for the Group and managed syndicates.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 8 April 2009 and signed on its behalf by David Turner Company Secretary Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008
