Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 64 64 Audit Committee Report Introduction The members of the Audit Committee, who are both independent non-executive directors of the Company, are Richard Scholes Chairman and Christopher Forbes.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, CSLs Finance Director, the Group Actuary, the Internal Audit Manager, the Independent Reviewer Malcolm Cox, who is also a non-executive director of CSL and the external auditors attend most Committee meetings.
Other individuals, in particular the Risk Officer, attend as required.
Robert Deutsch also served as an Audit Committee member until his resignation on 31 December 2008.
The Board is satisfied that, during 2008 and since, the Audit Committee had at least two members with recent and relevant financial experience.
Terms of reference The Committees terms of reference include the requirement to review, and challenge where necessary, the Companys financial statements, to monitor compliance with accounting standards, to oversee the Companys relationship with the external auditor and to review their terms of engagement and fees and to review reports received from the internal auditor.
The Committee must also satisfy itself that proper systems of control and risk management are in place.
The Committees terms of reference which are available on the Companys website and on request from the Secretary comply with the Combined Code and its operations follow the Smith Guidelines.
Meetings The Audit Committee, whose terms of reference require it to meet a minimum of 4 times a year, met 5 times in 2008 with attendance as follows: Committee member Number of meetings attended total 5 R T Scholes Chairman 5 R V Deutsch resigned 31 12 08 4 C D Forbes 5 Activities in 2008 During 2008, the Committee undertook a number of activities to discharge its responsibilities, which included: Review of the Groups interim and annual reports and accompanying London Stock Exchange announcements.
The review included consideration of the external auditor reports thereon, which highlighted the key audit issues and recommended management action.
The Committee also reviewed managements response to those recommendations.
Consequent to that review, those accounts were recommended to the Board for approval: Approval of the external auditors terms of engagement and audit plans and the acceptance of the continuing independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Committee also considered the performance of the external auditor and recommended its reappointment at the AGM: Approval of the Internal Audit plan for 2009: Review of Internal Audit reports, including those on Richard Egger Insurance, ChaucerDirect, Individual Capital Assessment calculation and reporting, investment management, risk management and company secretariat.
The Committee also considered the performance of the internal audit function: Review of the Group risk management framework and implementation of certain adjustments in particular around investment management, see page 59: Review of regular reports from the Group Actuary, Independent Reviewer and Risk Officer the latter of which included compliance matters : The review of the Committees Terms of Reference, and policies regarding anti-fraud and inducements whistle blowing and the provision by the external auditor of non-audit services: and The Committee held meetings with each of the external auditor, Internal Audit Manager and Group Actuary in the absence of executive management.
Issues and actions arising from both external and internal audits are logged and followed to resolution by either this Committee or an appropriate executive committee.
In addition to the formal meetings, the Committee Chairman maintains contact with executives and the Internal Audit Manager as required.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 8 April 2009 and was signed on its behalf by Richard Scholes Chairman, Audit Committee Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008
