24 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance Background and areas of expertise on which they may lead where issues The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of arise and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
6 of the UK Listing Rules requires all listed companies to disclose how they have applied The role of chief executive the principles and complied with the provisions of the revised Since all directors are non-executive and day-to-day Combined Code.
The Financial Reporting Council the FRC management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the confirmed in February 2007 that it remained the view of the Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive.
FRC that by following the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide, boards of investment Executive directors remuneration companies should fully meet their obligations in relation to the As the Board has no executive directors, it is not required to Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
comply with the principles of the Combined Code in respect of executive directors remuneration and does not have a The Board of The City of London Investment Trust plc has Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are detailed in the considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Directors Remuneration Report on page 23.
Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, Internal audit function addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of the As the Company delegates to third parties its day-to-day Combined Code, as well as setting out additional principles operations and has no employees, the Board has determined and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance that there is no requirement for an internal audit function.
to The City of London Investment Trust plc.
The directors annually review whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed and will continue to monitor its The Board considers that reporting against the principles and systems of internal controls in order to provide assurance that recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the they operate as intended.
AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide the most appropriate information to shareholders.
Board Independence and Composition The Board currently consists of five non-executive directors.
Application of the AIC Codes Principles and Statement The directors reviewed their independence and confirm that of Compliance all directors remain wholly independent of Henderson Global The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board attaches Investors Limited the Investment Manager.
All directors importance to the matters set out in the AIC Code and lists have a wide range of other interests and are not dependent below how the AIC Codes Principles have been applied.
The Chairmans other significant It should be noted that, as an investment trust, most of the commitments are detailed on page 13 and have not changed Companys day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third during the year.
On length of tenure, in the event of a director parties, the Company has no employees and the directors are having more than nine years service, the Board would explain all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions of the the reasons for considering such a director to be independent.
Combined Code are directly applicable to the Company.
The directors biographies, set out on page 13, demonstrate the The directors believe that during the year under review they breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as relevant to their positions as directors.
The Board believes that they apply to the Companys business, and with the provisions retaining directors with sufficient experience of both the of the Combined Code except as noted below.
Company and the markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
Senior independent director A senior non-executive director has not been identified as the Board considers that all the directors have different qualities The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 25 Corporate Governance continued During the year seven Board meetings were held to deal with Following a recommendation from the Audit Committee, the important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the the Board concluded that the Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, setting and monitoring of investment strategy, gearing policy, remains independent of both the Company and the the review of investment performance and the level of the Investment Manager.
discount or premium to net asset value and the evaluation of When applicable, the Auditor is engaged to review the the service providers.
Attendance at the Board and calculation of any performance fee due at the year end.
This is committees meetings held during the financial year are shown considered to be a non-audit service.
All directors usually attend the Annual General Meeting.
Nominations Committee Audit The Nominations Committee usually meets annually although Board Committee No of meetings 7 2 for the year under review the annual meeting took place in Simon fide Zoete 7 n a July 2008.
The meeting considers Board succession planning, Anita Frew 7 n a the review of the performance of the Board as a whole and i Mark Nicholls 21 the Board Committees and the appointment of new directors.
Angus Russell 6 2 The Nominations Committee also reviews and recommends Sir Keith Stuart 7 2 ii the directors to retire by rotation.
All directors are members of Richard Hextall 41 the Nominations Committee.
The Chairman of the Board acts i Resigned 10 October 2007. ii Appointed 1 November 2007. as Chairman of the Nominations Committee but would not chair the Committee when the Chairmans successor was Board Committees being considered.
The Board has two Committees, the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee and Terms of Reference for these Performance Evaluation Committees are available on the Companys website.
The The Company Board has not formed a Management Engagement The performance of the Company is considered in detail at Committee as it remains the role of the Board as a whole to each Board meeting.
keep under review the terms of the management agreement between the Company and the Investment Manager.
The Board The Chairman reviews each individual directors contribution on Audit Committee an annual basis.
The work of the Board as a whole and of the The Audit Committee consists of Sir Keith Stuart Chairman, Board Committees is also reviewed annually by the Nominations Richard Hextall and Angus Russell.
The Committee meets without the Chairman of the Audit Committee are considered to have the necessary present in order to review the performance of the Chairman.
At recent and relevant financial experience.
the 2008 Nominations Committee Meeting it was agreed that the Chairman continues to promote effective leadership and The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and is each of the directors contributes valuable experience and skills responsible for the review of the annual accounts, the nature to the Board.
and scope of the external audit and the findings therefrom, the terms of appointment of the auditors together with their Tenure Policy remuneration, performance, independence and objectivity, as All directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, well as any non-audit services provided by the auditors, and subject to re-appointment and Companies Act provisions and, in the half year report.
It meets with representatives of the accordance with the Articles of Association, stand for election at Investment Manager and receives reports on the quality and the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
effectiveness of the accounting records and management information maintained on behalf of the Company.
26 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance continued Directors will retire at intervals of not more than three years to Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board ensure compliance with the AIC Code.
meeting enabling the directors to probe further on matters of concern.
Board Succession and Policy for Recruitment A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision The Nominations Committee considers succession planning by the full Board has been defined and a procedure adopted bearing in mind the balance of skills, knowledge and for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take experience existing on the Board and will recommend when independent professional advice at the expense of the the further recruitment of non-executive directors is required.
The directors have access The Committee aims to maintain a balance of relevant skills, to the advice and services of the corporate Company experience, ages and length of service of the directors serving Secretary through its appointed representative who is on the Board.
responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures Once a decision is made to recruit additional directors to the are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are Board, each director is invited to submit nominations and complied with.
The Board and Investment Manager operate in these are considered in accordance with the Boards agreed a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
The Nominations Committee considers the use of external agencies as and when the requirement to recruit an Continued Appointment of the Investment Manager additional Board member becomes necessary.
During the year The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of an external agency was engaged to recruit a new director.
investment management and other services to the Company on an ongoing basis.
The principal contents of the agreement Reappointment as a director is not automatic and will follow a with the Investment Manager are contained in the Report of process of evaluation of each directors performance.
In the Directors on page 16. accordance with the Combined Code any director serving for longer than six years would be subject to particularly rigorous The Board reviews investment performance at each Board assessment of his her contribution and any director serving for meeting and a formal review of the Investment Manager is longer than nine years would be subject to annual re-election conducted annually.
As part of the annual review in July 2008 the directors discussed the quality and continuity of the personnel assigned Directors Training to handle the Companys affairs, with particular reference to When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a performance and results achieved to date.
In addition, they training seminar which is held by the Investment Manager.
reviewed other services provided by the Investment Manager Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key to the Company, such as accounting, company secretarial and information on the Companys policies, regulatory and administrative services, and the Investment Managers statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes promotion of investment and savings products linked to the affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as Companys shares.
The Board noted the Investment Managers they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant investment management resources and experience in training and industry seminars.
managing and administering investment trust companies.
Responsibilities As a result of their annual review, it is the opinion of the The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase directors that the continued appointment of the current and sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of also ensures that all directors receive, in a timely manner, all the Companys shareholders as a whole.
relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 27 Corporate Governance continued Although the Company has underperformed its benchmark Guidance.
The process has been in place since 2 March over the past year, the Board has also borne in mind that the 2000 and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
Companys performance vis--vis other investment trusts in its The Board is responsible overall for the Companys system of sector has continued to improve and has recognised the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, difficulties the Manager has faced during the year in the need such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate to maintain satisfactory income, given the relative risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives performance of different sectors of the market.
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Accountability and Audit The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertook a Accounts is set out on page 22, the Independent Auditors full review of the Companys business risks and these have been Report on page 51 and the Statement of Going Concern on analysed and recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
The Board receives each quarter from the Investment Manager a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the The Board has delegated contractually to external third areas of risk, including those that are not directly the parties, including the Investment Manager, the management responsibility of the Investment Manager, and which reports the of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which details of any known internal control failures.
The Board include the safeguarding of the assets, the day to day receives each year from the Investment Manager a report on its accounting, company secretarial and administration internal controls which includes a report from the Investment requirements and registration services.
Each of these contracts Managers auditors on the control policies and procedures in was entered into after full and proper consideration by the operation.
Steps will continue to be taken to embed the system Board of the quality and cost of the services offered, including of internal control and risk management into the operation and the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
The Board receives and considers regular reports from the Relations with Shareholders Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and information are Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman prime medium by which the Company communicates with its attends meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust shareholders is through the Half Year Report and Annual companies managed by the Investment Manager: these Report and Accounts which aim to provide shareholders with meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the a clear understanding of the Companys activities and their Chairman reports on them to the Board.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and publication at the London and New Zealand The Investment Manager has established an internal control Stock Exchanges of the net asset value of the Companys framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged is assessed by the Investment Managers compliance and risk to attend and participate in the Annual General Meeting, department on a continuing basis.
which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and all directors normally attend.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address Internal Controls questions to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating Audit Committee and all other directors at the meeting.
The and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The Portfolio Manager, as the representative of the Investment process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords Manager, makes a presentation to shareholders.
A summary of with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the the proxy votes received on the resolutions proposed is Combined Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull displayed at the meeting.
It is the intention of the Board that 28 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance continued the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of Annual General Exercise of Voting Powers Meeting be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least The Company has approved a corporate governance voting twenty working days notice of the meeting.
Shareholders policy which accords with current best practice whilst wishing to lodge questions in advance of the meeting are maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the Registered Office address given on the inside back cover.
New Zealand Listing It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate General presentations to both shareholders and analysts Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the between the Investment Manager and shareholders are Corporate Best Practice Code.
Investors may find more reported to the Board.
co. uk The Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 55 to 60 sets out the business of the meeting and the special resolutions are explained more fully in the Report of the Directors on pages 19 to 21.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
