Close Brothers Annual Report 2008 25 Corporate Governance The board of the company the board has reviewed Meetings of the Board The principal matters considered by the board during its Corporate Governance practices and, together with relevant information contained in the Report of the Board the year included: the group strategic plan: on Directors Remuneration on pages 31 to 41 and the Report of the Directors on pages 21 to 24, this statement takeover approaches: trading: explains how the company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the Combined Code on share price and shareholder perceptions: independence of non-executive directors: Corporate Governance published in June 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code for the interim and final results as well as the interim management statements: and the year ended 31 July 2008. capital management.
Compliance with the Combined Code The company has complied with the Combined Code In addition, the board considered succession planning to ensure continuity and that the company continues to meet throughout the year ended 31 July 2008, except that: At least half the board excluding the chairman were its objectives.
Two independent non-executive directors are being recruited to correct this exception.
Chairman and Chief Executive Mr. P. S. S. Macpherson was appointed chairman on The Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee consisted of only two independent 2 June 2008 following the resignation of Mr. R. D. Kent who resigned because of an unexpected and significant directors.
A third independent director will be appointed following the recruitment of the two increase in his responsibilities elsewhere.
Mr. Macpherson, non-executive directors referred to above.
as deputy chairman at that time, was the planned The membership of the Remuneration Committee successor in these circumstances.
Consequently, neither included Mr. R. D. Kent between August 2007 and open advertising nor the services of an external search January 2008, who under the Combined Code was not consultancy were used prior to Mr. Macphersons independent.
The board were of the opinion that his appointment.
membership of this Committee was necessary and justified by his knowledge and experience of The roles of the chairman and chief executive are remuneration issues in financial services.
separated and their responsibilities are clearly established.
The division of responsibilities between the chief executive Board Responsibilities and chairman is clearly documented and has been The board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approved by the board.
The chairman is responsible for the decision.
The schedule is reviewed annually and includes: running of the board and the chief executive is responsible setting and monitoring strategy: for the running of the companys business.
reviewing performance: risk management: The significant commitments of the chairman, regulatory compliance and internal control: Mr. Macpherson, are set out in his biography on page 9. ensuring adequate financial resources: and The board is satisfied that his other commitments do not reporting to shareholders.
unduly restrict him from carrying out his duties effectively.
The board is supplied in a timely manner with information In accordance with the Combined Code, the in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to non-executive directors led by the senior independent discharge its duties and meets regularly throughout the director, assessed the performance of the chairman.
year normally monthly to deal with important aspects of This included discussions with executive directors and the groups affairs.
shareholders and an assessment of the chairmans other commitments.
All directors have direct access to the advice and services of the company secretary who is responsible for ensuring Senior Independent Director that the board procedures and applicable rules and The senior independent director until June 2008 was regulations are observed.
Directors are able to take Mr. P. S. S. Macpherson.
Mr. B. N. Carnegie-Brown was independent outside professional advice as necessary, appointed senior independent director in June 2008 at the companys expense.
when Mr. Macpherson became chairman.
Three colour section : PMS 7463 C text PMS 511 C top panel 10% CYAN background 26 Governance Corporate Governance Attendance at Meetings finance director and heads of Group Finance, Risk, The attendance of directors at board meetings held during Compliance and Internal Audit attend by invitation.
the year which they were eligible to attend is shown in the Representatives of the external auditors also generally table below: attend the meetings at least twice a year.
The Committee also meet regularly without members of management 1 Meetings attended present.
Executive S. R. Hodges 9 Role 2 J.
A. G. Howell 4 The role of the Committee includes: C. D. Keogh 9 monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the company and the form and content of published Non-executive announcements: B. N. Carnegie-Brown 8 reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments, 3 J. M. B. Cayzer-Colvin or alternate P. N. Buckley 6 judgements and disclosures in financial reports: P. S. S. Macpherson 9 reviewing the adequacy of the groups system of risk D. G. J. Paterson 9 management, regulatory compliance and internal 1 The number of scheduled meetings held in the year was nine.
A. G. Howell was appointed to the board.
3 On 1 January 2008 Mr. J. M. B. Cayzer-Colvin was appointed to the board.
reviewing the groups whistleblowing procedures: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Group In addition the chairman and non-executive directors Internal Audit: and meet regularly without the executive directors present.
making recommendations to the board as to the appointment or re-appointment and remuneration of Board Committees the external auditors, including assessing independence The board has appointed the following committees, and objectivity, approving their terms of engagement whose members are all non-executive directors.
Terms and reviewing their findings and performance and of reference for each committee are available on the overseeing the relationship with them.
The Committee reports to the board on all these issues The board identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Nomination External auditors Audit Remuneration and Governance As in previous years, the Committee conducted a review Committee Committee Committee of the service provided by the groups external auditors.
The results of this review were shared with the external Audit Committee auditors to provide a basis for our recommendation as to their re-appointment.
The membership of the Audit Committee during the year, together with a record of attendance at meetings members In respect of the subsidiaries in the Banking division, the were eligible to attend, is set out below: Meetings Committee decided to appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP to Appointed Resigned attended replace Ernst & Young LLP as the auditors of these D. G. J. Paterson companies during the year.
Consequently Deloitte & Chairman April 2004 8 Touche LLP now audit almost all companies in the group.
B. N. Carnegie-Brown September 2006 7 P. S. S. Macpherson May 2003 June 2008 5 Non-audit services policy J. P. Williams September 2004 October 2007 1 The Committee have agreed a clear policy on the The number of meetings held in the year was eight.
engagement of our external auditors for non-audit services.
Where work is closely related to the audit, for Membership example accounting advice or stock exchange reporting, Mr. D. G. J. Paterson, the chairman of the Audit Committee, work may be awarded to the external auditors.
If the work as a senior partner in the banking and capital markets is of a nature such that a detailed understanding of the division of  until 2004 and as a group is necessary, or where significant benefit can be non-executive director of Goldman Sachs International gained from work previously conducted, for example tax Bank has, in the view of the board, the appropriate level of advice or due diligence on transactions, the work may be recent and relevant financial experience as required by the awarded to the external auditors, except that if it exceeds Combined Code.
The company secretary, or his nominee, 100,000 in value, it must first be approved by the acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee believe that this policy Three colour section : PMS 7463 C text PMS 511 C top panel 10% CYAN background Close Brothers Annual Report 2008 27 provides a more relevant measure of auditor During the year the Committee met to consider: independence than the monetary ratios and guidelines the appointment of a new finance director: followed by some investors.
A breakdown of the fees paid Committee membership: the size and composition of the board: to our auditors in respect of audit and non-audit work is included in note 5 on page 55. the recruitment of additional non-executive directors: succession planning: and Remuneration Committee the appointment of the chairman.
The membership of the Remuneration Committee during the year, together with a record of attendance at meetings Board Evaluation The board conducts a formal and rigorous annual members were eligible to attend, is set out below: Meetings evaluation of its own performance and that of its Appointed Resigned attended committees and individual directors.
The chairman leads B. N. Carnegie-Brown a formal review and discussion of the performance of the Chairman November 2007 5 board and its committees.
The performance of individual M. G. A. McLintock November 2004 November 2007 3 executive directors is formally assessed annually by the R. D. Kent March 2007 January 2008 1 chief executive and reviewed with the non-executive P. S. S. Macpherson September 2004 June 2008 7 directors.
Non-executive directors performance is D. G. J. Paterson June 2008 1 assessed by the chairman, the senior independent director The number of meetings held in the year was eight.
The chairmans performance is reviewed by the non-executive directors, led by the senior The role, policies and workings of the Committee are independent director, having consulted with the executive detailed in the Report of the Board on Directors directors.
Following its annual performance review, the Remuneration on pages 31 to 41. board concluded that each of its committees and each of its directors remained effective and committed to The Committees key role is to determine the their role.
remuneration and other terms and conditions of employment of the executive directors, management In respect of the Audit Committee, the board is satisfied board members and the company secretary.
that the chairman of that committee, Mr. D. G. J. Paterson, has recent and relevant financial experience.
Nomination and Governance Committee The membership of the Nomination and Governance Board Balance and Independence Committee during the year, together with a record of The board currently comprises the chairman, three attendance at meetings members were eligible to attend, non-executive directors and three executive directors.
is set out below: One non-executive director, Mr. J. M. B. Cayzer-Colvin, is Meetings not regarded as independent as he is an appointee of a Appointed Resigned attended significant shareholder.
The senior independent director P. S. S. Macpherson is Mr. B. N. Carnegie-Brown.
The composition of the board Chairman November 2005 2 is set out below: R. D. Kent November 2006 June 2008 1 B. N. Carnegie-Brown November 2007 2 M. G. A. McLintock September 2004 May 2008 1 D. G. J. Paterson November 2005 2 J. P. Williams November 2005 October 2007 The number of meetings held in the year was two.
"Role KVajZh [dg 9 hZii c h id YViV gVe] The role of the Committee includes: &hi kVajZ 2 ""& considering the appointment or retirement of directors: 'cY kVajZ 2 ""&% reviewing proposed nominations and governance gY kVajZ 2 % procedures and to make recommendations thereon to the board."
Before an appointment is made the skills, 9Zei] 2 ei knowledge and experience required for a particular appointment are evaluated and external advisers may Cd h]VY c be used to facilitate the search for suitable candidates: N 8]V gbVc & regular reviews of the structure, size and composition :meVcY VeeZVgVcXZ!
"Xdadjg bVcjVaan N cYZeZcYZci cdc""ZmZXji kZ Y gZXidgh ' of the board: N Cdc""ZmZXji kZ Y gZXidg & considering the leadership needs of the group and N :mZXji kZ Y gZXidgh succession planning: and assessing the contribution of non-executive directors."
Three colour section : PMS 7463 C text PMS 511 C top panel 10% CYAN background 28 Governance Corporate Governance The board is of the opinion that each non-executive The company has complied with the Turnbull Committees guidance for directors.
Identifying, evaluating and director acts in an independent and objective manner and therefore, under the Combined Code, is regarded as managing the groups significant risks is an ongoing process which is regularly reviewed by the board, and independent with the exception of Mr. J. M. B. CayzerColvin who is an appointee of a significant shareholder.
which has been in place for the year ended 31 July 2008 and up to the date of the approval of these financial The boards opinion was determined by considering for each non-executive director: whether he is independent in statements.
character and judgement: how he conducts himself in board meetings: whether he has any relationships or Auditors Independence The auditors of the group are Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Ernst whether there are any circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his judgement: and & Young LLP resigned as auditors of Close Brothers Seydler AG and the Banking division during the year.
whether he acts in the best interests of the company and all its shareholders at all times.
In addition to their statutory audit responsibilities, the The board acknowledges that there are insufficient group will typically use the auditors for other work that they are well placed to undertake because of that role.
This independent non-executive directors to provide a balanced board under the Combined Code.
However two includes: formalities relating to borrowings: shareholder and other circulars: regulatory: pension scheme and other additional independent non-executive directors are being recruited to achieve this balance.
ancillary audit work: work in respect of acquisitions and disposals: and tax compliance.
Internal Control Several firms are considered for other work, including The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of risk management, regulatory compliance and internal the auditors in some instances.
In such cases due consideration is given to the impact of the assignment control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to ensure that the key risks taken by the on the independence of the auditors and to their company and its subsidiaries in the conduct of their qualifications to carry out the role, including competitive business are identified and evaluated so that appropriate tenders for larger assignments.
controls are put in place to manage those risks.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the Having given consideration to the extra work undertaken risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only by the auditors, and after review with the partner in the provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against firm and the executive directors, the Audit Committee is material misstatement or loss.
satisfied as to the independence of the statutory auditors.
The system of internal control is supported by a well Relations with Shareholders established organisational structure within the group, with The group has a programme of communication with clear levels of responsibility and delegation of authority shareholders through the interim and annual reports, the and a strong control culture embedded in the day to day AGM and regular webcasts.
Shareholders are given the management of each operating company.
Each operating opportunity to participate by asking questions at the AGM, company in the group regularly undertakes a review of, or by submitting written questions in advance.
The groups and reports to its board on, these controls and procedures, website at www.
co. uk contains information having due regard to its key risks.
Where necessary, on the group, including up to date relevant shareholder steps are taken to improve internal control and risk information, as well as information on the products and management further, following these reviews.
The Risk services it offers.
Communication with the groups major Management section on pages 18 to 20 of the Business institutional shareholders is undertaken by a programme Review details these key risks and explains how they are of visits and presentations.
Feedback from this programme controlled.
is reported to the board to ensure it develops an understanding of the views of the major shareholders Group Internal Audit regularly reviews the effectiveness of of the company.
controls and procedures established by the company and its operating businesses to manage key risks.
The Head of Going Concern Group Internal Audit reports through the Audit The financial statements are prepared on a going concern Committee to the board, to which he has unrestricted basis as the directors are satisfied that, at the time of access through the chairman.
approving the financial statements, the group has the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
