ID4530 Bc AR 2008 Insides 88pp 05. qxp 16 3 09 16:19 Page 19 Report of the Nomination Committee Role Of The Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Meetings The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose The Nomination Committee had two scheduled and three unscheduled purpose is to advise the board on the appointment and, if necessary, meetings in 2008.
Mr A. M. Thomson chairs the Nomination Committee dismissal of executive and non-executive directors.
The full terms which also comprises, Messrs J.
A. Biles, J. Vogelsang, J. D. Hubbard, of reference of the Nomination Committee are provided on the Dr K. Rajagopal from 24 September 2008 and Mr S. C. Harris from Companys website.
A. S. Wallace chaired the committee until he retired on 30 April 2008 and Mr L. P. Bermejo was a committee member Composition Of The Nomination Committee until 29 February 2008.
The meetings in 2008 proposed the nominations The Nomination Committee comprises all the independent for re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, and discussed non-executive directors together with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
general succession planning and specic positions and reviewed and The quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each approved potential conicts of interest.
During 2008 the Committee of whom must be an independent non-executive director.
also recommended the appointments of Dr Rajagopal as a non-executive director and Mr Harris as Chief Executive Designate in each case The Chairman acts as the Chairman of the Committee, although following preparation of a job specication, the appointment of specialist the Chairman may not chair the Committee when it is dealing with executive search consultants, and interviews by the Committee with the matter of succession to the Chairmanship of the Company.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend the Committee meetings.
However, other individuals and external On behalf of the Nomination Committee: advisers, may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting as and when appropriate.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has the authority to seek any information that is required from any officer or employee of the Company or its subsidiaries.
In connection with its duties, the Committee is A. M. Thomson authorised by the board to take such independent advice including Chairman of the Nomination Committee legal or other professional advice, at the Companys expense as 25 February 2009 it considers necessary, including requests for information from or commissioning investigations by external advisers.
