ID4530 Bc AR 2008 Insides 88pp 05. qxp 16 3 09 16:19 Page 17 Corporate Governance The Groups mission is: Leadership The Board of Directors comprises eight members, of whom four are To provide world class companies with thermal processing Non-Executive Directors and four are Executive Directors led by the services that make a positive contribution to the success Companys part-time Non-Executive Chairman, Mr A. M. Thomson, of their businesses: who also chairs the Nomination Committee.
To earn sustainable profits which attract shareholder interest: The Chief Executive is Mr S. C. Harris who succeeded Mr J. D. Hubbard To engage, develop and retain competent people, harness their in that role on 12 January 2009.
The Chairman is Mr A. M. Thomson, enthusiasm and inspire them to excel: and who became Chairman on 30 April 2008, and the Senior Independent To act as a good corporate citizen.
Non-Executive Director is Mr J. Vogelsang, who also chairs the The Groups aim in terms of corporate governance is, therefore, Remuneration Committee.
The Audit Committee is chaired by to sustain and support these objectives over the longer term.
Brief biographical details of all Directors are given on page 28.
The Board meets at least eight times a year and visits are Compliance with 2006 Combined Code made to UK and overseas facilities.
Certain dened issues are Bodycote complies with the provisions of The Combined Code on reserved for the Board to decide, inter alia: Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code, save in the following two areas Strategy where the reasons for the variance are noted: Approval of financial statements and circulars 1 Audit Committee and Auditors code provision C. 3.1 Capital projects, acquisitions and disposals Annual budgets Between the date when Mr Bermejo resigned as a director on 29 February 2008 and the appointment of Dr Rajagopal as Directors appointments, service agreements, remuneration and a non-executive director on 24 September 2008 the audit succession planning committee comprised only 2 directors, notwithstanding that the Policies for financial statements, treasury, safety, health and Code lays down a membership of at least three independent environment, donations non-executive directors.
This was to enable an appropriate Committees terms of reference search for a replacement to be completed.
Board and committee chairmen and membership 2 Investor Relations code provision D. 1.1 Investments Bodycote believes that generally it is the responsibility of the Equity and bank nancing Chief Executive and the Finance Director to manage relationships Internal control and risk management with institutional investors.
The Chairman also meets institutional Corporate governance investors to discuss overall strategy, governance and any concerns Key external and internal appointments and that shareholders may have.
Only where these more usual Employee share incentives and the UK Pension Scheme.
channels of communication have failed would the Company expect the Senior Independent or other Non-Executive Directors In advance of board meetings Directors are supplied with up-to-date to become involved, notwithstanding that the Code species information about the trading performance of each operating location, attendance of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director the Groups overall financial position and its achievement against prior at meetings with major shareholders.
Regular feedback by the year, budgets and forecasts.
They are also supplied with the latest Companys advisers on investor meetings and results available information on Safety, Health and Environmental and risk presentations is circulated to all Directors.
Non-Executive management issues and details of the safety and health performance Directors are also encouraged to attend one of the results of the Group, and each strategic business unit in terms of severity presentations each year.
and frequency rates for accidents at work.
Apart from these distinct areas, Bodycote was in compliance with Where required, a Director may seek independent professional advice the provisions of the Code throughout 2008. the cost of which is reimbursed by the Company.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and they may also address specic Operation of the Code issues to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Taken together with the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Board Report on Remuneration presented In accordance with the articles of association, all newly appointed on pages 19 to 27, this statement explains how Bodycote has applied Directors and any who have not stood for re-election at the two the principles of good corporate governance set out in the Code.
previous Annual General Meetings, if eligible, must submit themselves for re-election.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed for xed terms not exceeding three years from the date of first election by shareholders, after which the appointment may be extended by mutual agreement.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities is set out on page 16.
The Board also operates three committees.
These are the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
Bodycote annual report 2008 17 ID4530 Bc AR 2008 Insides 88pp 05. qxp 16 3 09 16:19 Page 18 Corporate Governance Independence of Non-Executive Directors During 2008, in compliance with provision C. 2.1, the Board also The Board considers that Messrs J.
A. Biles, J. Vogelsang and Dr K. performed a specic assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
Rajagopal are all independent for the purposes of the Code.
The assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report including the work of Commitment Internal Audit.
In addition, the Managing Director of each of the Groups Attendance of Directors at regular scheduled meetings of the Board and Strategic Business Units reported on the existing internal control its Committees is shown in the table below.
In addition there were procedure and any failings or weaknesses.
They identied and made further unscheduled meetings of the Board, and a number of ad hoc an assessment of the risks affecting the businesses they control, committee meetings to deal with nomination and divestment issues.
in each case with the assistance of input from those reporting directly to them.
Such risks were measured against their own stated objectives, and actions for any improvements were scheduled against Board Audit Remuneration Nomination a timetable for later verication by Internal Audit.
The Group also meetings Committee Committee Committee conducted a review of risks which principally affected the head ofce functions and with the help of an external consultant reviewed these Scheduled 8422 with the Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Group Treasurer, A M Thomson 8 2 2 the Head of Tax, the Senior Internal Auditor, the Chief Engineer Europe, J D Hubbard 8 2 the Insurance Manager, the Director of Safety, Health and Environmental D F Landless 8 Compliance and the Chief Information officer.
No significant previously D R Sleight 8 unidentified risks were uncovered as part of this process, and the S C Harris 2 necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any K Rajagopal 4 1 1 significant failings or weaknesses identied as part of the reviews.
J Vogelsang 8 4 2 2 Investor relations J A Biles 8422 The Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly talk with and meet L Bermejo 1111 institutional investors, both individually and collectively, and this has J A S Wallace 3 1 enabled institutional investors to increase their understanding of the All directors attended the maximum number of board or committee Groups strategy.
The business of the Annual General Meeting now meetings that they were scheduled to attend comprises a review of the Groups operations for the benefit of shareholders attending.
In addition, since 1998, internet users have Performance Evaluation been able to view up-to-date news on the Group and its share price Messrs D F Landless and D R Sleight were appraised internally during via the Bodycote website at www.
In February 2008 the Board carried out its own evaluation of website can also enrol free for a service that automatically noties the Board as a whole.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committees them of results announcements and recent significant Group events.
reviewed their own performance in November 2008 and the Audit Bodycotes financial advisers, corporate brokers and financial public Committee reviewed its performance in December 2008. relations consultants provide the Directors with opinion surveys from Internal Control analysts and investing institutions following visits and meetings with The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
Non-Executive Directors for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage are themselves invited to attend analysts presentations at the time rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, of the regular results announcements.
As stated on page 17 the and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are material misstatement or loss.
The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of available to discuss any issues not resolved by the Chief Executive the Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and Finance Director.
On specic issues, such as the introduction in and managing the Groups significant risks, including risks arising out 2003 of the share option scheme, in 2005 with the stock bonus plan, of Bodycotes corporate and social engagement.
The Board continuously in 2006 with the introduction of long term incentive and share matching and regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from the start schemes, the bid approach from Sulzer AG and in 2008 the return of of 2000 to the date of approval of this report and which is in accordance cash, the Company will seek the views of leading investors.
with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999 and which is in accordance with revised guidance on internal control published October 2005.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management and from internal audit to consider whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging these review responsibilities.
