ID4530 Bc AR 2008 Insides 88pp 05. qxp 16 3 09 16:19 Page 20 Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose main Main Activities Of The Audit Committee role is to encourage and safeguard the highest standards of integrity, The Audit Committee met four times during 2008, and in February financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
2009 to consider this financial report and all committee members Its responsibilities are set out in written terms of reference which attended the maximum meetings they were scheduled to attend.
are available for inspection on the Companys website and include: The Committee also meets separately with the Senior Internal reviewing the form and content of interim and full year accounts Auditor and with the external auditors, without management being and results announcements of the Company, interim management present, after the end of most formal meetings.
statements and any other formal announcements relating to the In addition, the Committee Chairman has preparatory meetings with the Companys financial performance, including monitoring their integrity external auditors and, where necessary, with Group senior management, and reviewing significant reporting issues and judgements contained prior to committee meetings.
therein, and recommending them to the board for approval: reviewing the Groups systems of risk management and internal At their meetings, the Audit Committee considers an agenda of items financial control: including the minutes of the last meeting and a list of action points from previous meetings, to ensure that these are progressed.
In addition, monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys a number of specic items were reviewed:- internal audit function and considering regular reports from internal audit on internal financial controls and risk management: At their February and July meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed considering the appointment, re-appointment or changing of external respectively the preliminary and interim announcements of results and auditors and overseeing the process for their selection and making the draft reports and accounts for the financial year and the half year.
recommendations to the board on their appointment which will be On these occasions the Committee reviewed reports from the put to the shareholders for their approval at a general meeting and external auditors, identifying any accounting or judgemental items to approve their remuneration and terms of engagement: requiring its attention including approval of the processes, assumptions and outcomes to assess fair values and impairments and commenting agreeing the nature and scope of the external auditors work and on risk management and control matters.
considering their reports on the Companys accounts, reports to shareholders and their evaluation of the systems of internal financial At the July and December 2008 and February 2009 meetings the control and risk management: and accounting treatment for all aspects of the sale of the Testing SBU was considered as a special item.
monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account professional A quarterly report from the Senior Internal Auditor was presented and regulatory requirements.
at each meeting and the findings discussed.
During the year the plan for the ensuing years work was considered.
Composition Of The Audit Committee The external auditors also presented their audit plan at the December The Audit Committee comprises Messrs J.
A. Biles, J. Vogelsang and and April meetings covering scope of work to be done and during Dr K. Rajagopal from 24 September 2008 who are all independent the year there was a detailed review of their management letter non-executive directors.
Their biographical details are set out on page covering the auditors findings in respect of 2007.
28 and their remuneration is shown on page 25.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee since 16 August 2007 has been Mr J.
A. Biles, who Executives are, from time to time, required to make presentations was appointed a director on that date, following a recommendation to the Audit Committee on risk and other subjects.
Presentations from the Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee Chairman is were made on tax, treasury and information services.
considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr Biles is The Audit Committee has also been presented with an update on a chartered accountant, who served as a plc finance director FKI plc material litigation in which the Group is involved.
from 1988 to 2004 and Chubb Security plc from 1991 to 1997 and At each meeting an update is presented of any new accounting is currently also the Chairman of the Audit Committee of Charter developments and requirements and any changes in corporate International plc 2005 and Hermes Fund Managers Limited 2005. governance arrangements that may affect the Group.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Audit Committee.
On a regular basis, the Committee reviewed papers on liquidity, The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Corporate Development banking arrangements and the going concern assumptions for Director, Senior Internal Auditor, Group Financial Controller, Group preparation of the financial statements.
This response to the current Treasurer, Head of Tax, other senior finance personnel and external global financial and economic circumstances, which affects all auditors attend Audit Committee meetings as appropriate by invitation.
businesses, took account of the impact on the Bodycote business of the current financial and economic environment.
The Committees activities supported the Directors in their assessment of the going concern position of the Group, which is set out on page 9.
20 Bodycote annual report 2008 ID4530 Bc AR 2008 Insides 88pp 05. qxp 16 3 09 16:19 Page 21 During 2008 the Audit Committee also: Internal Audit assessed the independence of the external auditors: Internal audit independently reviews the risk and control processes operated by management.
It carries out independent audits in accordance having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit, the performance with an internal audit plan which is agreed with the Audit Committee and capabilities of the external auditors and having taken into account before the start of the financial year.
This plan takes account of the their tenure of ofce and when the position was last open for tender, risk management framework surrounding major business risks in each recommended to the board to reappoint the auditors and agreed operation and provides a high degree of financial and geographical their fees: coverage.
Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve approved the Groups accounting policies: internal controls together with agreed managerial action plans to approved the management representations to the auditors: resolve issues raised.
Internal audit follows up the implementation of recommendations and reports progress to senior management and the reviewed arrangements for reporting and investigating fraud and Audit Committee.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function is employee concerns: reviewed and discussed on an annual basis with the Group Financial reviewed Bodycote business principles: Controller and Senior Internal Auditor.
reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management process: On behalf of the Audit Committee reviewed the terms of reference for the Audit Committee: and assessed the Committees own effectiveness.
Independence Of External Auditors The Audit Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised.
A. Biles of services provided by the external auditors is as follows.
Audit Committee Chairman Audit related services.
The external auditors are invited to provide 25 February 2009 services where their position as auditors renders them best placed to undertake the work.
This includes reporting and certication connected with borrowings, shareholders and other circulars, regulatory requirements and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
Where the external auditors are best suited to carry out the work they are asked to do it: this particularly applies to work relating to tax compliance.
Major exercises or any work where conicts would arise are put out to tender.
In general and where conicts arise, the work is not awarded to the external auditors and is put out to tender.
There are no contractual restrictions on who the audit committee can choose as external auditor.
