Statement of Corporate Governance there is regular contact between the directors and the Compliance Manager throughout the year.
During the year the Board The Company is committed to high standards of corporate met five times and the Audit Committee met three times governance.
The Board is responsible for good governance, the attendance record of each director is shown in the Table and this statement describes how the Company applies the below.
principles identified in the Combined Code appended to the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules throughout the Audit financial year.
The Board confirms that the Company has Committee complied throughout the accounting period to 31 August Board meetings meetings 2008 with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code.
Director attended attended The Company is also a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC, which has published its own Tony Cassidy 5 3 Code of corporate governance to recognise the special David Gairns 5 3 circumstances of investment trusts.
The Board is of the Frank Frame 5 n a opinion that the Company has complied with the Tony Lowrie 5 n a recommendations of the AIC Code.
Allan McKenzie 5 3 Peter Tyrie 5 n a The Board Iain Watt 5 n a The Board consists of seven non-executive directors.
Profiles Member of Audit Committee of the Board members appear on pages 18 to 20 of the annual report.
Each director has the requisite range of The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for business and financial experience to enable the Board to decision, and the requirement for Board approval on these provide clear and effective leadership and proper stewardship matters is communicated directly to the senior staff of the of the Company.
Mr Frame is the Senior Independent Manager.
Such matters include overall strategy, review of Director, and is available to shareholders in the event that investment policy, performance, borrowings, treasury, there are concerns that cannot be resolved through marketing, board composition, corporate governance policy discussion with the Chairman.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable the directors The Company has no executive directors or employees.
All to function effectively and to discharge their responsibilities.
directors are considered to be independent of the Manager The Board also reviews the financial statements and revenue and to be free of any material relationship with the Manager budgets.
which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board takes the view that length of service Performance Evaluation does not compromise independence.
This is consistent with the AIC Code.
Mr Watt, being a former director of Edinburgh An appraisal of each director, including the Chairman, and of Fund Managers Group plc, did have a material relationship the operation of the Board and its Committees, was with the Manager but given that relationship was over five undertaken during the year.
The Chairmans performance years ago, he is deemed to be independent.
Mr Lowrie is a assessment was led by the Senior Independent Director.
The non-executive director of The Thai Euro Fund to which Board also reviewed the Chairmans and directors other Aberdeen Asset Managers are advisers.
The Board is satisfied that each directors is a director of two investment funds where Aberdeen has a performance continues to be effective, and that each relationship, the Board is of the view that he is independent remains fully committed to the Company.
in his role as a director of this Company.
When making a recommendation for re-electing a director, the Board will There are no separate Nomination and Remuneration take into account the on-going requirements of the Committees.
Director appraisals, succession planning, new Combined Code.
appointments, training and remuneration are considered by the whole Board.
Details of directors remuneration are The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys contained within the Directors Remuneration Report.
It delegates, through an investment management agreement and specific instructions, the day-to-day New directors are identified against the requirements of the management of the Company to the Manager, Edinburgh Companys business and the need to have a balanced Board.
For new appointments a description of the required role is prepared and nominations of directors are initially sought in The Board normally meets at least five times each year, and the financial and investment sectors.
If required, external more frequently where business needs require.
In addition, search consultants may be used to ensure that a wide range Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 25 Statement of Corporate Governance continued of candidates can be considered.
New directors will be given regularly submitted to the Board and there are meetings appropriate induction from the Manager.
All directors are with the Manager as appropriate.
entitled to receive appropriate and relevant training.
As a matter of course, the Managers compliance department continually reviews the Managers operations.
Written agreements are in place which specifically define The Companys articles of association provide that a director the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third appointed during the year is required to retire and seek party service providers.
election by shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit All directors are required to submit themselves for refunction but, because of the compliance and internal election at least once every three years.
Directors with more control systems in place within the Manager, has decided to than nine years service, or who are over 70 years, are place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit required to submit themselves for annual re-election.
with the Boards policy, Messrs Cassidy, Frame, Gairns, Tyrie, At its October 2008 meeting, the Audit Committee carried and Watt retire at this years annual general meeting and out an annual assessment of internal controls for the year offer themselves for re-election.
The Board has reviewed the ended 31 August 2008 by considering documentation from skills and experience of each director, and supports their rethe Manager, including the internal audit and compliance election.
functions, and taking account of events since 31 August 2008.
The results of the assessment were reported to the There is a procedure for a director to take independent Board.
professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Internal Control Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is The Board is responsible for the Companys system of exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Following designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure publication of the FRCs guidance Internal Control: Revised to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code updated provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against version of the Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that material misstatement or loss.
there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This Accountability and Audit process has been in place for the year under review and up to The respective responsibilities of the directors and the the date of approval of this annual report and accounts.
It is auditors in connection with the financial statements appear regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the FRCs on pages 28 to 30. guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and The members of the Audit Committee are Mr Gairns, updated the process for identifying and evaluating the Chairman, Mr Cassidy and Mr McKenzie.
The Audit significant risks affecting the Company and the policies by Committee considers reports from the external auditors and which these risks are managed.
The significant risks faced by the Managers internal audit and compliance functions.
The the Company are as follows: terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which are available on request and on the Companys website, are financial: reviewed and re-assessed on an annual basis.
The main operational: responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: compliance: and reputational.
to review and monitor the internal control systems and risk management systems on which the Company is reliant.
Note 20 to the accounts provides further information on to consider annually whether there is a need for the risks.
The key components designed to provide effective Company to have its own internal audit function.
internal control are outlined below: to monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial The Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts statements of the Company by reviewing, and challenging which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities where necessary, the actions and judgements of the and review its performance: the emphasis is on obtaining Manager.
the relevant degree of assurance and not merely reporting to meet with the external auditors to review their proposed by exception.
audit programme of work and the findings of the auditors.
The Board and the Manager have agreed clearly defined The Committee also uses this as an opportunity to assess investment criteria, specified levels of authority and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are 26 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the service, and the Company responds to letters from external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The nonshareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Manager audit fees for the year to 31 August 2008 were 3,500, maintains contact with institutional shareholders and feeds relating to the review of the interim accounts and back shareholder views to the Board.
The Board also met regulatory reporting.
The Board will review any future nonwith representatives of the major shareholders during the audit fees in the light of the requirement to maintain the financial year.
The Companys annual and interim reports auditors independence.
and other publications can be downloaded from the to review the arrangements in place within the Manager Companys website, www.
whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or The notice of the annual general meeting included within the other matters.
annual report and accounts is sent out at least 20 working to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the days in advance of the meeting.
All directors intend to be appointment of the external auditors and to approve the available at the forthcoming annual general meeting, and remuneration and terms of engagement of the external shareholders are encouraged to attend.
for each resolution are announced to the meeting after to monitor and review annually the external auditors voting on a show of hands.
independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
At its October 2008 meeting, the Committee Proxy Voting as an Institutional Shareholder was satisfied that the auditors remained independent and In relation to the use of the Companys voting rights in objective.
respect of investee companies, the Manager, in the absence to review the performance of the Manager and its of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to compliance with the management agreement.
exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
The underlying aim of the exercising of such voting rights is to protect the return from an investment.
The Managers Going Concern policy is to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, and, as far After due consideration, the directors believe that it is as is practicable, to vote at all meetings called by investee appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in companies.
the preparation of the accounts, and they consider that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible existence for the foreseeable future.
Investment Policy The directors, through the Manager, encourage companies in Review of Manager which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the The Board keeps the resources of the Manager under area of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible constant review.
In addition, it conducts an annual review of Investing.
They believe that this can best be achieved by the terms and conditions of the Management Agreement and entering into a dialogue with company management to of all aspects of the Managers performance under this encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies Agreement.
The notice period under the Agreement is three in both areas.
months or on shorter notice in certain circumstances.
Compensation is payable in lieu of the unexpired notice The Managers ultimate objective, however, is to deliver period if actual notice is less than the notice period.
superior investment return for their clients.
Accordingly, Following the most recent review, the Board concluded that whilst the Manager will seek to favour companies which the Manager, whose team is well-qualified and experienced, pursue best practice in these areas, this must not be to the had satisfactorily met the terms of its Agreement with the detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
Company, and is satisfied that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Relations with Shareholders The directors place great importance on communication with shareholders.
Besides shareholders, the report and accounts are widely distributed to other parties who have an interest in the Companys performance.
Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the Company through the Managers freephone information Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 27
