Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of boards of investment companies are likely to benefit corporate governance.
The Board has accordingly put from a regular infusion of new blood, they are in place a framework for corporate governance, which it perhaps more likely than most to benefit from having believes is appropriate for an investment trust company.
at least one director with considerably longer than nine years experience.
When considering the Chairmans AIC CODE independence it should be noted that the Company The Board has considered the principles and changed its Manager in 2002. recommendations of the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code of Corporate Governance All of the Directors are considered by the Board to be the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate independent of management and free from any business Governance Guide the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, or other relationship which could materially interfere as explained in the AIC Guide, addresses all the with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined independent Directors form the membership of the Code as well as setting out additional principles and Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the recommendations on issues that are of specific Management Engagement Committee.
The requirement relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that in the Companys Articles of Association for Directors reporting against the principles and recommendations to retire at the AGM after their 70th birthday is being of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide amended to conform with changes to the law.
The which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide Board does not limit the time a Director may serve.
Biographies of the Directors who served in the year The Board is accountable to the Companys to 31 March 2008 appear on pages 6 and 7 of this shareholders for good governance and considers that report.
The Directors believe that the Board has a the Company has complied with the recommendations balance of skills, experience, ages and length of of the AIC Code and therefore has met its obligations service which enables it to provide effective strategic in relation to the Combined Code and associated leadership and proper governance of the Company.
disclosure requirements of the Listing Rules except The Senior Independent Director is Richard Barfield.
as set out below: The Board usually meets at least nine times each While the Investment Management Agreement splits year.
There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which out the duties of the Board and the Manager, the is designed to address, in a systematic way, overall Company does not operate with the Manager in the role strategy, objectives, review of investment policy, of Chief Executive Officer.
A senior Fidelity manager investment performance, marketing achievements, has, however, been appointed to co-ordinate Fidelitys promotional material, budgets, dividend policy, executive responsibilities and there are, as a matter of gearing, asset allocation, peer group information, course, regular high level discussions between the industry issues, share price performance, share Board and senior employees representing different buybacks, share price discount, the shareholder functions within Fidelity.
profile of the Company and communication with shareholders.
Additionally, Board Committees and DIRECTORS sub-groups meet to pursue matters referred from the The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys Board as a whole and the Chairman meets the other affairs.
It delegates, through an investment Directors regularly without representatives of the management agreement and through specific Manager being present.
The Board considers that instructions the day to day management of the it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties Company to the Manager, Fidelity Investments effectively and the table on page 22 gives the International.
The Company has no executives or attendance record for the formal Board and employees.
There is a formal schedule of matters Committee meetings held in the year.
reserved for the Board which includes, among other things, decisions on gearing, Board appointments, The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The appointment of the Company Secretary, strategy, appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for Company structure and risk management strategy.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary through The Board presently consists of six non-executive its appointed representative who is responsible to the Directors, one of whom is Chairman.
Scott Dobbie Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed was appointed as a Director on 20 April 1998 and and that applicable rules and regulations are complied Chairman in July 2003.
He has therefore served for with.
Each of the Directors of the Company is entitled more than nine years and is subject to annual reto take independent professional advice, at the election.
As detailed in the AIC Guide, whilst the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Page 21 Corporate Governance Statement Changes to the Board Due to his length of tenure, Scott Dobbie retires and All appointments to the Board and replacements of being eligible offers himself for re-election at the Directors take place in accordance with the Companies Annual General Meeting.
The Board has endorsed Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
his candidature and commends his re-election to shareholders as he has maintained his independence, The Nomination Committee consists of all the effectiveness as a Director and as Chairman, and Directors and is chaired by Scott Dobbie.
The continues to demonstrate his commitment to the Committee meets on an annual basis and at such other Company.
In accordance with the Companys Articles times as may be required.
The Committee has written of Association, Sir Nigel Wicks and Richard Barfield terms of reference and is responsible, among other retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves things, for identifying and nominating, for the approval for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies taking Board endorses their candidature and commends into account the need to maintain a balanced Board.
Care is taken to ensure that appointees have enough time to devote to the job.
External consultants are also Training used to identify potential candidates.
The Committee When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he also considers whether Directors should be or she is provided with all relevant information regarding recommended for re-election by shareholders.
the Company and his or her duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a new Director will also The Nomination Committees written terms of spend some time with representatives of the Manager reference are available on the Companys website whereby he or she will become familiar with the various at www.
processes which the Manager considers necessary for the performance of its duties and responsibilities Letters of appointment, which specify the terms to the Company.
The Companys policy is to encourage of appointment, are issued to new Directors on Directors to keep up to date and attend training appointment and include details of the time commitment courses on matters which are directly relevant to their required and expected duration of appointment.
The involvement with the Company: a number of such terms and conditions of appointment of Directors are courses were attended in the year under review.
Thus available for inspection at the registered office of the training is tailored to the needs of individual Directors Company and will be available prior to the forthcoming and, in addition, the Company organises an annual Annual General Meeting.
offsite meeting at which the Directors consider a variety of topics which are relevant to the Company and assists A Director appointed during the year is required to the Directors in updating their skills and knowledge.
retire and seek election by shareholders at the next The Directors also receive regular briefings from, Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require that among others, the AIC, the Auditors and the Company one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year Secretary regarding any proposed developments or and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting changes in law or regulations that could affect the and also that every Director submit himself or herself Company and or the Directors.
for re-election at least every three years.
Subject to these requirements for re-election, Directors continued service is at the discretion of the Board.
Board Audit Nomination Management Meetings Committee Committee Engagement Meetings Meetings Committee Meetings Richard Barfield 9 9 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 Scott Dobbie 9 9 3 3 1 1 1 1 Jim Pettigrew 8 9 3 3 1 1 1 1 Nicola Ralston 9 9 3 3 1 1 1 1 William Samuel 9 9 3 3 1 1 1 1 Sir Nigel Wicks 9 9 3 3 1 1 1 1 Attendance at meetings 1 The Chairman is not a member of the Audit Committee but was in attendance at the Audit Committee meetings Page 22 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Statement Directors remuneration At the Annual General Meeting all shareholders have The level of Directors fees is determined by the the opportunity to put questions to the Board and a whole Board, although Directors do not vote on their presentation from the Manager covers the investment own fees, and therefore a separate Remuneration performance and strategy during the financial year and Committee has not been appointed.
Directors fees are the outlook for the year ahead.
The Board hopes that disclosed fully in the annual report see the Directors as many shareholders as possible will be able to attend Remuneration Report on pages 27 and 28.
fees are considered to be competitive and sufficient to attract and retain the standard of Directors needed All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is to manage the Company successfully.
The limit on called, the details of the level of proxies lodged for each aggregate fees is governed by the Companys Articles resolution, the balance for and against the resolution of Association.
and the number of votes withheld will be available after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Shareholdings by Directors are encouraged and the Directors share interests are disclosed in the Directors The notice of meeting on page 50 sets out the business Report on page 9. of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including Evaluation the annual report and financial statements.
An evaluation of the Board, its Committees and of individual members was conducted during the last The notice of the Annual General Meeting and related quarter of the financial year.
This took the form of papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working self and peer group assessment by questionnaire days before the meeting.
followed by discussions between the Chairman and the Directors.
The Chairmans performance was The Chairman of the Board, the Nomination assessed by a meeting, chaired by the Senior Committee and the Management Engagement Independent Director, of all the other Directors.
Committee, Scott Dobbie, and the Chairman of the A formal evaluation is completed annually.
Audit Committee, Jim Pettigrew, will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
Supply and agenda of information The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director may Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
be contacted either through the Company Secretary or The Board receives in due time information in a form care of the Companys registered office at Quartermile and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge One, 15 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh EH3 9EP.
The Board meeting papers are the key source of regular information for the Board, the contents The Company does not have continuation votes.
of which are determined by the Board and contain sufficient information on the financial condition of the ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Company.
Key representatives of the Manager attend An Audit Committee has been established which is each Board meeting, enabling the Board to probe chaired by Jim Pettigrew, consisting of all the Directors further on matters of concern or seek clarification on with the exception of Scott Dobbie.
The Board has delegated its corporate of the members of the Audit Committee are included in governance responsibilities to the Audit, Management their biographies on pages 6 and 7.
The Board has Engagement and Nomination Committees, membership taken note of the suggestion that at least one member of which is set out on pages 6 and 7. of the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience and is satisfied that the Audit COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS Committee is properly constituted in this respect.
The Directors place great importance on communication with the Companys shareholders.
The Committee meets at least three times a year The Manager carries out a programme of regular and its authority and duties are clearly defined in its dialogue and individual meetings with institutional written terms of reference which are available on the shareholders.
During the year the Chairman, the Companys website www.
These duties Senior Independent Director and other Directors also include: discussing with the external Auditors the met representatives of those major shareholders who nature and scope of the audit and reviewing the had accepted an invitation from the Chairman to meet.
external Auditors quality control procedures: Written reports of all such meetings are circulated considering the scope of work undertaken by the to all Directors.
This ensures that all Directors have Managers internal audit department: reviewing the an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
Companys procedures for detecting fraud: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Page 23 Corporate Governance Statement Company: reviewing the half yearly and annual The Board is responsible for the Companys system of financial statements of the Company prior to their internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such submission to the Board: and reviewing the a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate effectiveness of the internal control systems including the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can financial, operational and compliance controls and risk only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance management.
They also include responsibility for against material misstatement or loss.
reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the audit process and the external Auditors independence The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process and objectivity with particular regard to the provision for identifying, evaluating and managing the of non-audit services.
The provision of non-audit Companys principal business and operational risks, services is also subject to prior Board approval.
The that it has been in place for the year ended 31 March Audit Committee of the Board meets the external 2008 and up to the date of approval of the annual Auditors in the absence of representatives from the report and financial statements, that it is regularly Manager at least once a year to review these and reviewed by the Board and accords with the FRCs other appropriate matters.
Shareholders have the Internal Control: Revised Guidance, and has been in opportunity at each Annual General Meeting to vote place for the year ended 31 March 2008. on the re-appointment of the external Auditors for the forthcoming year and to authorise the Directors The Manager is responsible for the design, to determine the level of Auditors remuneration.
implementation and maintenance of controls and The Committee also reviews corporate governance procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company issues, the existence and performance of all controls and to manage its affairs properly.
The system extends operating in the Company including the adherence to operational and compliance controls and risk to Section 842 status, the relationship with and the management.
Clear lines of accountability have been performance of third party service providers such established between the Board and the Manager and as the registrars and custodians.
regular reports on controls and compliance issues are provided to the Audit Committee.
In carrying out its The respective responsibilities of the Directors and review, the Audit Committee has had regard to the the external Auditors in connection with the financial activities of the Manager, the Managers compliance statements appear on pages 26 and 29. and risk functions and the external Auditors.
The Audit Committees review also includes consideration of In the year to 31 March 2008 the Audit Committee internal controls and similar reports issued by the discharged its responsibilities by, among other things: Manager and other service providers.
Reviewing the Companys draft annual and half The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit yearly financial statements prior to Board approval function.
The Board has decided that the systems and and reviewing the external Auditors reports thereon procedures employed by the Manager, including its Reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys internal audit function and the work carried out by accounting policies the Companys external Auditors, provide sufficient Reviewing the potential impact of any new assurance that a sound system of internal control, Financial Reporting Standards which safeguards shareholders investment and the Reviewing and approving the audit fee and Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit reviewing any non-audit fees payable to the function, specific to the Company, is therefore Companys external Auditors considered unnecessary.
The Audit Committee meets Reviewing the external Auditors terms with the Managers Head of Internal Audit on an annual of engagement basis without other representatives from the Manager Reviewing the external Auditors plan for the audit being present.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Companys financial statements has direct access to the Managers Head of Internal Reviewing the external Auditors quality Audit and vice versa.
control procedures Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Whistle-blowing procedure external audit process and the external Auditors Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision independence and objectivity of a good service pursuant to the Management Considering the scope of work undertaken by the Agreement includes the ability for employees of Managers internal audit department Fidelity to raise concerns through a workplace concerns Reviewing a semi-annual report on internal controls escalation policy or whistle-blowing procedure.
and reporting to the Board as described opposite Fidelity is committed to providing the highest level of Recommending the re-appointment of the service to its customers and to applying the highest external Auditors Page 24 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Statement standards of quality, honesty, integrity and probity.
Following the most recent review, the Board, upon The aim of the policy is to encourage employees and the recommendation of the Committee, is of the others working for Fidelity to assist the Company in opinion that the continued appointment of Fidelity tackling fraud, corruption and other malpractice within Investments International as Investment Manager and the organisation and in setting standards of ethical Secretary, on the terms agreed in the Management conduct.
This policy is noted accordingly.
Agreement, is in the interests of the shareholders as a whole and the Company.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT An investment management agreement the CORPORATE ACTIVISM AND RESPONSIBILITY Management Agreement dated 19 July 2002 AS AN INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER was made between the Company and Fidelity The Board believes that the Company should, where Investments International Fidelity, under which appropriate, take an active interest in the affairs of the Fidelity has agreed to provide investment management, companies in which it invests and that is should exercise administrative and secretarial services to the Company its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there for a fee of an amount equal to 0.26 per cent per are any particularly controversial issues which are then annum of the Value of Funds under Management as referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for defined in the Management Agreement, which excludes corporate activism and shareholder voting to Fidelity.
investments in other funds managed by the Manager These activities are reviewed annually.
payable monthly and calculated as of the last day of the preceding calendar month to which it relates.
The Board has affirmed the Managers Principles of The Management Agreement will continue unless Ownership in relation to the Companys investments.
and until terminated by either party giving to the other These principles include the pursuit of an active not less than three months notice.
The Management investment policy through portfolio management Agreement may also be terminated forthwith as a decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings result of a material breach of the agreement or on and maintaining a continuing dialogue with the the insolvency, liquidation other than for the purpose management of investee companies.
In its Principles of an amalgamation or reconstruction approved by of Ownership the Manager expressly declares that it the Board of Fidelity.
In addition, the Company supports the Statement of Principles drawn up by the may terminate the Management Agreement without Institutional Shareholders Committee setting out the compensation in the two months following a change responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
The Manager instructs proxy voting on behalf of the MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE Company in accordance with the Managers existing The Management Engagement Committee which guidelines and policies.
was established in January 2004 with written terms of reference meets at least once a year.
The GOING CONCERN Committees terms of reference are available at the The Directors believe that the Company has adequate Companys registered office and on the Companys resources to continue in operational existence for the website www.
The Committee consists foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to of all the Directors and is chaired by Scott Dobbie.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the In conducting its annual review of the investment financial statements.
management and secretarial arrangements, the Committee considers, among other things, investment performance, marketing performance, Scott Dobbie the performance of the Companys Secretariat, the Chairman 29 May 2008 Finance and Control environment, Compliance and Audit and the terms of the Management Agreement.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Page 25
