Corporate governance policy guidelines Introduction These guidelines have been adopted by the Board.
They provide guidance on how the principles of good corporate governance are applied to the Company.
The Report on corporate governance is set out on pages 25 to 27.
The Board represents the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders through directing the business of the Group successfully: setting strategy and short, medium and long term objectives.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that, through effective monitoring, senior management organised in an established regional management structure operate in accordance with the Groups policies and procedures, implement and execute the determined business strategies and achieve set objectives.
Guidelines on important corporate governance issues 1 Board membership and balance The composition of the Board is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that it remains appropriate for successfully directing the business activities of the Group.
Consideration is given to the breadth of knowledge, diversity of skills and experience of executive and non-executive directors by the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee and the Board give adequate consideration to planning for succession to Board and senior management positions, ensuring that appropriate management development measures are in place.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman also the Senior Independent Director, three further independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
2 Board selection The Board receives recommendations on the appointment of directors from a Board committee, the Nomination Committee, following an evaluation of the balance of knowledge, skills and experience available on the Board.
This Board committee comprises the independent non-executive directors, the Chairman and the Chief Executive and meets as required to consider proposed changes to Board membership.
3 Non-executive director independence The non-executive directors are independent in character and judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could affect or appear to affect the exercise of their independent judgement on matters under consideration by the Board.
The receipt of fair remuneration and being a shareholder is not considered to prejudice independence or prevent a non-executive director from acting independently.
4 Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two roles which has been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
It is normal practice for the role of Chairman to be a non-executive position.
The role of the Deputy Chairman has also been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
5 Number of directors An appropriate balance between executive and non-executive directors is maintained and the size of the Board is set as necessary to achieve this.
The number of non-executive directors is decided so as to provide the diversity of knowledge, skills and experience necessary for a sound independent contribution to the Board and the successful management of the Groups business.
By way of guidance, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
6 Length of appointment Executive directors are employed on service contracts with notice periods which do not exceed one year.
Non-executive directors service agreements establish the length of their appointments at periods of up to three years and their notice periods up to twelve months.
All directors are subject to retirement by rotation at least once in every three years at the Annual General Meeting.
New directors appointed by the Board must be re-appointed by shareholders at the following Annual General Meeting.
7 Director training On appointment, new directors are given a comprehensive induction to the Groups business activities, its policies and procedures and its management structure.
As necessary, directors receive training to complement their roles on the Board and Board Committees.
8 Director remuneration The Remuneration Committee, in accordance with its terms of reference, determines on behalf of the Board the broad policy for executive remuneration and the entire remuneration package for each of the executive directors and senior management.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors and meets as required.
External advice is sought where appropriate, including to benchmark remuneration levels against comparable companies.
Non-executive director remuneration, excluding that of the Chairman, is determined by the Board.
9 Financial information and internal control The review of submissions for Board approval in respect of the Groups annual report and accounts, half-yearly financial report, preliminary statement, interim management statements and other public financial information is the responsibility of a Board committee, the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups system of internal control and oversees compliance therewith.
The Audit Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors.
10 Supply of information Senior management are responsible for providing the Board with appropriate, complete and timely information relevant to the Boards discharge of its responsibilities, the monitoring of the performance of business activities, including significant variances, and progress with the implementation of strategies.
Directors have reasonable access to senior management to enable them to make further enquiries as they consider in their judgement appropriate.
11 Board procedures and authorities The Chairman and Chief Executive determine the agenda for each Board meeting and the necessary papers are distributed in advance so that the matters contained therein can be properly considered by the directors.
There is in place a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision, and detailed authorities, together with associated procedures, have been established for individual directors in the performance of their duties.
The Board undertakes formal annual performance evaluations.
12 Relations with shareholders The Board as a whole accepts responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue is maintained with shareholders.
The aim is to ensure that this dialogue is based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
Investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting and to vote and participate.
13 Corporate policies The Board ensures that corporate policies and procedures on ethical and corporate social responsibility matters, including sustainability, health and safety and the environment are maintained, monitored and reviewed on a regular basis.
24 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
