Report on the activities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee reviews the policies and processes for financial reporting, internal control, the identification, assessment and management of risk, audit effectiveness and compliance, the independence of the external and internal auditors and maintaining an effective relationship with them.
The Audit Committee reports its activities and makes recommendations to the Board.
Composition and meetings During 2008 the Audit Committee comprised Mr John Warren as Chairman, Mrs Lesley MacDonagh, Mr Colin Holmes and, from 1 October 2008, Mr Alastair Lyons, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year and all members then current attended each meeting, with the exception of Mrs Lesley MacDonagh who missed one meeting by prior arrangement.
The former Chairman of the Company attended one meeting by invitation, the current Chairman of the Company attended two meetings by invitation and one meeting as Chief Executive, the former Group Managing Director and current Chief Executive attended three meetings and the Group Finance Director attended three meetings.
The external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, attended three meetings and the Head of Internal Audit attended two meetings.
The Committee also met privately with the external and internal auditors following Committee meetings and the Committee Chairman met privately with both the audit director of KPMG Audit Plc and the Head of Internal Audit when appropriate.
Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting experience to the work of the Committee which includes past experience in finance or as members of audit committees or other comparable experience in corporate activities.
Further to this collective capability to discharge the Committees responsibilities, the Board is of the opinion that Mr John Warren as a former Group Finance Director satisfies the requirement for recent and relevant financial experience.
The Group Company Secretary, Mr Martin Palmer, acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee and appointments to the Committee are made on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Terms of reference The Audit Committee is authorised to investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
It has access to the internal and external auditors and their reports, who in turn have unrestricted access to the Committee.
If required, the Committee can obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional advice.
None was obtained during the year.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
co. uk plc and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Overview of activities During the year under review the Audit Committee followed a programme structured around the annual financial reporting cycle and reports from the internal and external auditors and management.
Activities in discharging its duties included: Review of the Preliminary results, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Half-yearly results and the Half-yearly financial report, all published under IFRS, proposed dividends and presentations to analysts prior to submission to the Board.
Review and challenge of reports, conclusions and results prepared by the internal audit function and presented to the Audit Committee by the Head of Internal Audit, including reports on the integrity of the system of internal control and risk management systems.
Examination and assessment of submissions presented by the external auditors in relation to the 2007 final audit, the 2008 interim review and the audit planning and strategy for the 2008 final audit.
Review of the results and effectiveness of the final audit including reporting by the external auditors and review of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Review and approval of the fee proposals for the final audit and the interim review.
Private discussion with the external and internal auditors with no executive management present.
Review of the system of internal control.
Review of the internal audit programme and the resourcing of internal audit.
Review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function by performance evaluation.
Completion of a performance evaluation of its own performance.
Review of the Committees terms of reference.
Review of the Groups whistleblowing policy and reports on the effectiveness of the arrangements.
Internal audit function The activities, effectiveness and workload of the internal audit department and the adequacy of available resources were monitored using a detailed reporting process and planning and review regime.
The freedom, scope and access allowed to the internal auditors in performing their duties during the year was confirmed by management as being unrestricted.
The Head of Internal Audit continues to have direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
28 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
