Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Directors Report on Corporate Governance The Company is committed to, and strives for, best practice The Board focuses mainly on strategy, investment and financial in corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the performance, the Groups control environment and executive Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
This management and Board succession.
To enable the Board to statement describes how the principles of corporate governance discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely set out in section one of the Combined Code issued in 2003 information ensuring that they are properly briefed on issues for the Code have been applied.
consideration in advance of meetings.
In addition, all Directors have access to senior management and can request, either Statement of compliance during meetings or at other appropriate times, further explanation The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the or written papers on matters as they see fit.
year ended 31 December 2008 and up to the date hereof, The Board has a detailed list of matters specifically reserved to it applied the principles and met the requirements of the Code.
This is contained in The Directors The Chairmen of the Audit & Compliance, Remuneration and Guide, a training and reference document issued to all Directors Nomination committees will be available to answer questions on appointment and updated as appropriate.
The Board at this years Annual General Meeting to be held on Thursday, Reserved List is reviewed annually and clearly sets out that 7 May 2009. authority is delegated from the Board to Board Committees and to management.
This ensures that matters of significance are Going concern overseen and reviewed by the Board prior to implementation.
The Code requires Directors to report, under the terms set out in Examples of matters reserved for the Board as set out in the the relevant guidelines to the Code, on the appropriateness of Board Reserved List are the approval of: The Group strategy: the adopting the going concern basis in preparing Financial Statements.
annual budget: the composition and terms of reference of any of the Board Committees: the high level organisational structure: The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to and the review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of affect its future development, performance and position are set internal control.
out in the Business Review on pages 10 to 17.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are Board composition described in the Business Review on pages 18 to 21.
In addition F&C Asset Management plc is a quoted subsidiary of Friends note 38 to the Financial Statements includes the Groups Provident plc FP, which owns 52 per cent.
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its There are, in addition to a formal agreement to manage funds on financial risk management objectives: details of its financial behalf of FP, various other arrangements in place between the instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk Company and FP, all of which are governed by independent and liquidity risk.
agreements, the terms of which are approved by the minority shareholders as appropriate.
New business created by FP has a The Group has considerable financial resources together with direct benefit to the Company and the Companys investment long-term contracts with a number of clients across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the Directors performance has a direct impact on FP and its ability to develop believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks its business.
Because of this relationship, close co-operation and understanding of each others businesses and strategies is very successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
To facilitate this, Sir Adrian Montague FP Executive After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Chairman, Trevor Matthews and Jim Smart FP Executive expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate Directors served as Directors of the Company during the year.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Alain Grisay, the Companys Chief Executive, served as an future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern Executive Director of FP during the year.
No remuneration or basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
benefits are paid to Mr Grisay in respect of his services as an Executive Director of FP.
In addition, Gerhard Roggemann is an The Board independent Non-executive Director of both FP and the The Board of Directors currently comprises the Chairman, two Company.
Mr Roggemann joined the Board as an independent Executive Directors and eight Non-executive Directors, five of Non-executive Director in June 2007.
As part of the formal annual whom the Board has identified as Independent Directors.
evaluation exercise, the Board assessed Mr Roggemanns ongoing independence in March 2009 and determined that The biographies of the Directors appear on pages 26 and 27.
Mr Roggemann continues to be independent in character and These demonstrate a range of experience, skills and personal judgement.
The Boards conclusion was based on the integrity, standing sufficient to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which objectivity and professionalism displayed by Mr Roggemanns contribution to Board discussions and debates.
The Board are vital to the success of the Group.
All Directors have access to acknowledges and respects that some parties may hold a the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is different view of Mr Roggemanns independence as a responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied consequence of him being an independent Non-executive Director of FP.
The Board meets formally on a regular basis and is responsible for approving the Groups objectives and policies.
35 Directors Report on Corporate Governance The other Non-executive Directors of the Company are Robert On an annual basis the Committee reviews the terms and Jenkins Chairman, Keith Bedell-Pearce, Dick fide Beus, Brian conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors set out in Larcombe, Nick MacAndrew and Jeff Medlock.
With the the standard letter of appointment to ensure that they continue to exception of Jeff Medlock, who in 2004 retired as Chief Financial meet the requirements of the Code.
This standard letter of Officer of Achmea, a 10 per cent.
shareholder in the Company, all appointment can be inspected during normal working hours at the of the Non-executive Directors listed above meet the criteria of Companys registered office by contacting the Company independence as set out in the accepted guidance.
The Committee considers on an annual basis the time independent on appointment, the Chairman is considered by the required of Non-executive Directors for the fulfilment of their Board to be sufficiently independent of management.
duties and assesses the contribution of the Directors, their independence and their suitability for re-election prior to an The composition of the Board is reviewed annually.
appropriate resolution being put to shareholders.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after The Board committees their appointment and to re-election at least every three years.
The Board has established a number of standing committees to facilitate the smooth transaction of business within the Group.
The terms of reference of each Board Committee outlining the For the Board authority and duties are reviewed and approved annually by the Board, are published on the Companys website and are available Robert Jenkins on written request from the Company Secretary.
The terms of Chairman, Nomination Committee reference of each of the Board Committees provide the authority 6 April 2009 to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
b Statement of the Audit & Compliance Committee Purpose and Terms of Reference a Statement of the Nomination Committee The Committee vouchsafes the processes and controls Purpose and Terms of Reference surrounding the production of the Groups Financial Statements The Committee leads the process, and makes recommendations and provides the Board with assurance that the processes and to the Board, for all new Board appointments and the controls exist to facilitate reporting on the Groups risk appointment of Non-executive Directors to any Board Committee.
management activities, including those related to Social, It is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge Environmental and Ethical matters, internal control and adherence and experience on the Board and ensuring that a formal, rigorous to policies and procedures.
and transparent appointment process exists.
Membership Membership The Committee is chaired by Keith Bedell-Pearce.
The Committee The Committee is chaired by Robert Jenkins.
The Committee comprises solely independent Non-executive Directors.
comprises the Chairman and three Non-executive Directors, two of whom are Independent Non-executive Directors.
The Committee usually meets at least four times a year to review the integrity of the Interim Report and Financial Statements and Throughout 2008, the Committee met formally on two occasions.
the Annual Report and Financial Statements and other On 13 May 2008, John Heywood retired from the Board and the governance matters as set out in the terms of reference.
management and a representative from FP, given the enlarged groups governance requirements, attend as required.
These Members of the Nomination Committee: Robert Jenkins meetings are also attended by senior members of the Chairman, Dick fide Beus, Brian Larcombe and Sir Adrian Companys auditor.
During the year the Committee met formally on four occasions Activities and work of the Committee and informally on a number of occasions to discuss and consider On 13 May 2008, John Heywood, an independent Non-executive business matters including the award of non-audit related Director, retired from the Board.
On two occasions, the Committee met members of the external auditors without management present On 15 August 2008, Jim Smart a Non-executive Director, retired and on two occasions the Committee met with the head of the from the Board and was replaced by Trevor Matthews, a NonAudit Risk & Compliance department without any other members executive Director on the same day.
As an integral part of its succession planning, the Committee reviews the balance and composition of the Board including the number of Directors serving thereon.
After due deliberation regarding the retirals and appointments detailed above the Committee and the Board re-affirmed the Companys commitment to striving to achieve best practice corporate governance by continuing with a Code-compliant Board and Board Committee structure.
36 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Members of the Audit & Compliance Committee: Keith Bedellc Statement of the Remuneration Committee Pearce Chairman, Brian Larcombe, and Nick MacAndrew.
Purpose and Terms of Reference On 13 May 2008 Mr Heywood retired from the Board and the Full details of the purpose and terms of reference, activities Committee.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the and work of the Committee are set out in the Directors Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, a Remuneration Report.
position that should continue throughout 2009.
Membership Activities and work of the Committee The Chairman of the Committee is Brian Larcombe.
As highlighted earlier, the Committee normally discharges its The Committee comprises solely independent responsibilities, as allocated by its terms of reference, within a Non-executive Directors.
Two meetings are held early in the On 13 May 2008 Mr Heywood retired from the Board and the year, one to deal with matters of governance for example, Committee.
Nick MacAndrew replaced Mr Heywood as a member compliance with the Code, the Financial Services Act, the of the Committee on the same date.
effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems, monitoring and reviewing the internal Audit Risk & Compliance Members of the Remuneration Committee: Brian Larcombe department and monitoring and reviewing the independence, Chairman, Keith Bedell-Pearce and Nick MacAndrew.
objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit process and the Activities and work of the Committee other to consider the integrity of the year end Financial Statements and any formal announcements relating to the The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups Companys and the Groups financial performance, including any remuneration policy as set out in the Directors Remuneration significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
Within that policy, the Committee is similar process is adopted at the interim reporting stage, with a responsible for determining the remuneration packages of the final meeting taking place late in the year to consider any year end Executive Directors and making recommendations and monitoring matters.
The Committee also considers and reviews other risk the specific remuneration packages of senior management below management or control documentation including the Companys Board level.
It is also responsible for the Companys incentive policy on whistleblowing, the results of internal and external audit schemes for employees, including the bonus scheme and the and compliance reports or management letters and oversees the grant of awards under the long term incentive schemes.
Further award of any non-audit related consultancy work.
On an annual details of the objectives of the Committee are contained in the basis the Committee considers and makes a recommendation to Directors Remuneration Report on page 43. the Board as to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors and approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
Other meetings of the Committee are called at For the Board the request of the Chairman to consider ad hoc control issues Brian Larcombe that may emerge during the year as well as other matters that the Chairman, Remuneration Committee Board has asked the Committee to consider or investigate.
6 April 2009 For the Board Keith Bedell-Pearce Chairman, Audit & Compliance Committee 6 April 2009 37 Directors Report on Corporate Governance Attendance at meetings The following table identifies the number of Board and formal committee meetings held in 2008 and the attendance record of the individual Directors as members of committees of the Board.
In addition to the meetings detailed below a number of sub-committees of the Board and Board Committees occurred.
Non-executive Director Audit & meetings without Compliance Remuneration Nomination Board management presentCommittee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 2008 2007 9 8 2 2 4 4 4 5 2 3 Robert Jenkins 9 2 2 Alain Grisay 9 Keith Bedell-Pearce 9244 Dick fide Beus 8 2 2 1 John Heywood 5123 Brian Larcombe 92442 David Logan 9 Jeff Medlock 9 2 2 Trevor Matthews 3 1 3 Nick MacAndrew 9231 Sir Adrian Montague 6 1 1 Gerhard Roggemann 8 2 4 Jim Smart 5 1 1 Resigned as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committees on 13 May 2008.
2 Appointed as a member of the Board on 15 August 2008.
3 Appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 13 May 2008.
4 Resigned as a member of the Board on 15 August 2008.
38 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Board roles Chairman Chief Executive The Chairman of the Company is Robert Jenkins.
As Chairman, The Chief Executive of the Company is Alain Grisay.
As Chief Mr Jenkins is responsible for leadership of the Board and Executive, Mr Grisay is responsible for overseeing the ensuring the effective running and management of the Board.
The implementation of the strategy as set by the Board, providing role profile of the Chairman outlines the specific responsibilities of strategic vision and executive leadership to all the Groups the Chairman and includes the following: business activities and ensuring the effective running of the business and the Executive Committee.
Ensuring that the Board agenda for each meeting takes account of the issues and concerns of each Board member Non-executive Directors and that members of the Board receive accurate, timely and Messrs Bedell-Pearce, fide Beus, Larcombe, MacAndrew, clear information on the Company and related matters to Matthews, Medlock, Sir Adrian Montague and Roggemann are enable them to monitor the Companys performance and the Companys Non-executive Directors.
As Non-executive take sound decisions.
Directors they are responsible for: promoting entrepreneurial leadership and the highest standards of governance within a Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and framework of prudent and effective controls: constructively ensuring that the Board develops an understanding of the challenging and helping develop strategic proposals: ensuring that views of major investors.
the Group has in place the necessary resources to meet its Ensuring that, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, a strategic objectives: reviewing management performance: formal induction and development process, including any determining appropriate levels of Executive Director Remuneration relevant internal and external training, exists for all Directors Remuneration Committee members, taking a prime role in and the Board as a whole with a view to enhancing the appointing, and where necessary removing, Executive Directors: Boards effectiveness.
setting the Companys values and standards to ensure its obligations to its stakeholders are understood and met: and Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and reviewing communication with shareholders.
Non-executive Directors and an effective contribution from all Directors.
Board evaluation and professional development The performance of the Chairman during 2008 was reviewed by A comprehensive and rigorous evaluation of the performance of the Non-executive Directors in a meeting chaired by Keith Bedellthe Board, its principal Committees and the Chairman was Pearce, the Senior Independent Director.
The Non-executive conducted during the year.
The Board evaluation was carried out Directors concluded at the meeting that Robert Jenkins displayed with the assistance of the Company Secretary and was led by the the characteristics expected of a Chairman including being Chairman.
The procedure adopted was for each Director to appropriately independent of the management team.
complete a detailed questionnaire, on a non-attributable basis, on their perception of the composition, operation and effectiveness of Mr Jenkins biography is set out on page 26.
Mr Jenkins is the Board and its Committees.
Each Director is then interviewed Chairman of the Investment Management Association of the UK.
by the Chairman in order to explore certain issues in greater This is a Non-executive, part-time role.
Mr Jenkins also depth and to identify areas requiring improvement.
volunteers time to two London-based business schools with which he is affiliated.
One significant area identified for improvement in the year ahead is strengthened Executive Director succession planning.
The Nonexecutive Directors also met separately, under the Chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director, to discuss the performance of the Chairman and provide him with collective feedback.
During the year the Chairman, in consultation with the Nomination Committee, performed an evaluation of the skills each Board member brings to the Board and created a skills matrix that was presented to the Nomination Committee and the Board for use in identifying professional development requirements and succession planning.
The Company has a full and formal induction process for all new appointments to the Board.
The Chairman, in consultation with the Company Secretary and individual Directors, is responsible for assessing the professional development needs of each Director.
The induction process and ongoing professional development is facilitated by the Company Secretary who, in consultation with the individual Director, identifies the most appropriate method of ensuring professional development.
The Company Secretary also 39 Directors Report on Corporate Governance assists in organising attendance at internal or external courses of The Nomination Committee believes that all Directors submitting professional development to develop familiarity with the themselves for election and re-election should be re-elected and Companys business operations.
can confirm that all Non-executive Directors display the qualities expected of an effective Non-executive Director.
Directors conflicts of interest Details of the Directors offering themselves for election or reFrom 1 October 2008, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a election can be found on pages 26 and 27. situation in which they have or can have an interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
Board succession planning A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter The Nomination Committee has a detailed succession plan for has been authorised in accordance with the Articles of the Boards Non-executive Directors.
The plan was shaped by Association by the other Directors.
The Articles of Association the aforementioned skills profile, projected and expected normal were amended to include the relevant authorisation for Directors retirements, and the Companys commitment to corporate to approve such conflicts by a resolution of shareholders at the governance best practice.
The plan is approved annually by AGM held on 13 May 2008. the Board.
Prior to 1 October 2008, the Board conducted a review of actual Relations with shareholders or possible conflicts in respect of each Director.
At its meeting in The Board as a whole acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring September 2008, the Board approved a protocol for identifying satisfactory dialogue with shareholders and that communications and dealing with conflicts and resolved to review any authorised are given high priority.
The Company welcomes the views of conflicts on an ongoing basis.
shareholders and, where practicable, enters into dialogue with Directors and Directors election and re-election institutional shareholders based on the need for mutual The Directors who served at any time during the year ended understanding of objectives.
The Companys Chief Executive and 31 December 2008 are as shown in the Directors Remuneration Chief Financial Officer regularly meet the largest institutional Report on page 49.
Details of the Executive Directors service shareholders and Company analysts following the announcement contracts and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment can of the year-end and interim results: the Senior Independent be found on page 48.
Director and all other Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend these meetings.
The Annual General Meeting of the Trevor Matthews, a Non-executive Director, was appointed during Company provides a forum, both formal and informal, for investors the year.
As such, he will retire at the Annual General Meeting to meet and discuss issues with Directors and senior management and, being eligible, will offer himself for election.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on Thursday, 7 May 2009 can be found in Under the terms of the Companys Articles of Association, at least the Notice of the meeting commencing on page 172. one third of Directors eligible to stand for re-election must do so at each Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Messrs Grisay and At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the Larcombe have been selected by the Nomination Committee and provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the the Board to retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Committee for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The timing of the despatch of the formal notice of the The Nomination Committee has reviewed the structure, size and Annual General Meeting complies with the Code.
The results of composition of the Board, and confirms that all Directors offering the votes cast at the Annual General Meeting are posted on the themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting Companys website.
demonstrate commitment to their role and devote sufficient The Non-executive Directors meet twice a year without time to perform their roles as members of the Board and any management present.
At these meetings, representatives from the Board Committee.
Companys significant shareholders have the opportunity to In accordance with the requirements of the Code, during 2008, express their views about the Company and consideration is given the Nomination Committee gave more detailed consideration to to any other relevant views expressed by other shareholders.
the proposed re-election of Mr Bedell-Pearce, given that he is Unattributed shareholder feedback on the Company, facilitated by currently serving in his third three-year term of appointment.
It has the Companys brokers, is also presented to the Board following been agreed that Mr Bedell-Pearce will seek annual re-election managements year end results presentations.
40 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Shareview In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message The Companys registrar, Equiniti, offers a Shareview service a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in enabling shareholders to have more control over their shares and accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications other investments: and must contain the information required for such instructions, Direct access to data held on the share register including as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of recent share movements and dividend details.
whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy, or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed The ability to change address details or dividend payment proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be instructions on-line.
received by the issuers agent, Equiniti ID 7RA01, by 12 noon To sign up for Shareview shareholders need the shareholder UK time on 5 May 2009.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will reference printed on the proxy form or dividend stationery be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied and there is no charge to register.
to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to On registration, shareholders can select their preferred format CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any post or e-mail for shareholder communications.
Shareholders change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST selecting e-mail as their mailing preference will be sent should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
shareholder communications, such as proxy forms and notice of Company results by e-mail instead of post, as long as this option CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors is available.
Shareholders selecting post as their preference will or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & be sent paper documents as usual.
Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and Details of software and equipment requirements are given on the limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST website, www.
It is therefore the responsibility of the CREST Electronic communications member concerned to take or procure the taking of such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by Copies of the 2008 Annual Report and Financial Statements, the means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this Notice of Annual General Meeting, other corporate publications, connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST press releases and announcements are available on the sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to Companys website.
Shareholders are encouraged to take those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical advantage of the provisions allowing the Company to limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in Voting Online the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the In accordance with good governance practice the Company is Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. offering shareholders use of an online voting service, sharevote, offered by the Companys registrar, Equiniti, at Internal control www.
Shareholders can use this service to vote The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of or appoint a proxy online.
The same voting deadline 12 noon internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a regular UK time on 5 May 2009 applies as for the Personalised Voting basis.
Managements role is to implement and operate the Board Form to vote or appoint a proxy by post to vote.
Shareholders policies on risk and risk management.
The system of internal need to use the unique personal identification details Reference control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Number, Card ID and Account Number that are printed on the failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide Personalised Voting Form to use this service.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
CREST members The Company, as required by the FSA Listing Rules, complied Registered shareholders who are CREST members who are with the Code provisions on internal control for the year ended entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and who wish to 31 December 2008. appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting The procedures that the Directors have established are designed to be held on 7 May 2009, or any adjournment of it, by utilising to provide effective control within the Group and accord with the the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the Personal Members or other CREST Sponsored Members, and Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Internal those CREST members who have appointed a voting service Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service Turnbull Guidance.
Such procedures have been in place provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on throughout the year and up to 6 April 2009, the date of approval their behalf.
of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
A high-level 41 Directors Report on Corporate Governance overview of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and auditors and has satisfied itself that during the year no aspect of managing significant risks including social, environmental and their work was impaired on these grounds.
In maintaining a clear ethical issues is detailed below.
This process is regularly reviewed perception of independence and balancing that with the best by the Board to ensure it complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
interests of the Group, the Board has a clear policy that it follows when considering the award of non-audit work to the Groups Control environment auditors.
The policy applied during 2008 is detailed below.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Groups conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all areas auditors undertaking non-audit work.
The Groups aim is always of the business.
The Group has in place appropriate procedures to have any non-audit work involving accountancy firms carried for the reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet the out in a manner that affords value for money while taking into required standards of business conduct.
The firm must not be in a The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for position of conflict in respect of the work in question and must planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in operations in order to achieve its objectives.
The structure is the best interests of the Group.
designed to provide clear responsibilities and a control framework Auditors of the Company are permitted to perform non-audit work for key areas of the Groups business.
in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit & Compliance Operational responsibility rests with the Chief Executive and is Committee, it is appropriate for them to do so and there are no devolved through a documented executive structure with clearly actual or perceived independence issues.
delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
Members of Group The Chairman of the Audit & Compliance Committee is authorised management are, therefore, accountable for the operation of the to approve the use of auditors for non-audit work provided that systems of internal controls within the Groups business.
the cost does not exceed 50,000 and the aggregate value does not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question.
In other Business risks circumstances, the approval of the Audit & Compliance The identification of major business risks is carried out by the Committee is required.
Board in conjunction with management, and procedures to control these risks, where possible, are reviewed and agreed.
The performance, independence, competence and cost of the auditors are reviewed annually by the Audit & Compliance Quarterly reports are prepared by each area of the business, Committee.
When the Committee considers it appropriate, the covering all locations.
These quarterly reports include issues of provision of audit services will be formally market-tested through a material business risk which are discussed in detail by the tender process involving those audit firms judged competent to Management Committee which includes both Executive Directors.
meet the needs of the Group.
The frequency of this marketAll significant items identified are reported to the Board on a testing will depend on the views of the Audit & Compliance regular basis.
Committee, on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading The key risks facing the Group at the year end and the mitigating practice.
The last competitive audit tender exercise was actions assigned to these risks are detailed in the Business undertaken in 2006. Review on page 16.
During the year, Deloitte, Ernst & Young, and , all of whom are independent of KPMG, Monitoring and corrective action the external auditors, provided non-audit related services to the There is a formal compliance function, which is integrated with the Group.
Details of fees paid to these accounting firms during 2008 internal audit function and operational risk function, to form an are disclosed in note 4 c on page 74 of the notes to the Audit, Risk & Compliance department.
The Audit, Risk & Consolidated Financial Statements.
Compliance department conducts regular monitoring of various business areas and control procedures in line with a plan agreed Future developments annually with the Audit & Compliance Committee.
Any issues of The Board believes that the controls in place during 2008 have significance are brought to the attention of the Board by the been appropriate to the needs of the Group.
Nevertheless, it is Audit, Risk & Compliance department and through the regular committed to the highest standards of governance and business reporting process.
Planned corrective actions are independently conduct and will ensure that those controls continue to develop in monitored for timely completion and reviewed by the Audit & line with the requirements of the FSA and leading practice.
By order of the Board, The Audit & Compliance Committee reviews the effectiveness of W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA the operation of this framework at least twice each year.
Secretary 80 George Street Independence of the auditors Edinburgh EH2 3BU The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Groups 6 April 2009 42
