Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of The Board currently consists of six non-executive corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put Directors, five of whom are independent of the in place a framework for corporate governance which it Companys Manager.
Mr Simon Fraser was an employee believes is appropriate for an investment trust company.
of the Manager until the end of December 2008 and remains a Senior Advisor and is therefore not AIC Code independent.
The Board believes it to be an important The Board of Fidelity European Values PLC has aspect of the corporate governance of an investment considered the principles and recommendations of the trust company that there should be links with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by Manager to ensure that the Manager is party to the reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for responsibility, authority and accountability of the Board Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as to the shareholders.
explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as In considering the independence of the Chairman, setting out additional principles and recommendations who has served as a Director for more than seventeen on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
years, the Board has taken note of the AIC Code and The Board considers that reporting against the principles concluded that lengthy service on a board does not of and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference itself compromise independence, indeed his experience to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined and knowledge are of positive benefit to the Board.
Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
Further details of the Boards findings may be found in the Chairmans Statement.
Nonetheless in the light of The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders the provisions of the AIC Code Mr Robert Walther will for good governance and considers that the Company be seeking annual re-election.
In common with most has complied with the recommendations of the AIC investment trusts there is no chief executive as the Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the management function has been delegated as set out Combined Code and associated disclosure requirements above and is supervised by the Chairman and the Board.
of the Listing Rules except as set out below.
The Combined Code includes provisions relating to: The independent Directors form the membership of the Audit Committee and the Management Engagement the role of the chief executive Committee.
executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the Mr Simpson is retiring as a Director following the Annual preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers General Meeting and Mr van der Klugt will be appointed these provisions are not relevant to the position of to these roles at this time.
Fidelity European Values PLC, being an externally managed investment company.
The Company has Board balance therefore not reported further in respect of these The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of provisions.
skills, experience, ages and length of service to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of The Company has no separate Nomination & the Company.
In particular they have a wide knowledge Remuneration Committee and in this respect does not and experience of fund management, investment trust comply with the Combined Code principle A.
4 and the management and business in Europe.
The reasons for non-compliance details of all the Directors are given on pages 14 and are detailed below.
To ensure that Board balance is maintained, discussions have commenced on the THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES appointment of a further Director in 2009.
The Board The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the The Board meets formally at least fives times a year Companys affairs.
It delegates through the Management and between these meetings there is regular contact Agreement and through specific instructions the day with the Manager.
Other meetings are arranged as to day management of the Company to the Manager, necessary.
Additionally, Board Committees and FIL Investments International.
The Company has no subgroups meet to pursue matters referred from the executives or employees.
All matters not delegated Board and the Chairman is in contact with the other to the Manager are reserved for the Boards decision.
Directors regularly without representatives of the Matters reserved for the Board include, inter alia, Manager being present.
The Board ensures that it decisions on strategy, management, structure, conducts its business at all times with only the interests capital, gearing, financial reporting, risk management, of the shareholders in mind and quite independently investment performance, share price discount, corporate of any other associations.
It endeavours to provide governance, Board appointments and the appointment leadership in terms of the direction of the Company.
of the Manager and the Company Secretary.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Page 25 Corporate Governance Statement Regular Board Audit Committee Management Engagement Meetings Meetings Committee Meetings Robert Walther 5 5 2 2 1 1 Simon Duckworth, DL 5 5 2 2 1 1 Simon Fraser 5 5 n a n a James Robinson 5 5 2 2 1 1 David Simpson 5 5 2 2 1 1 Humphrey van der Klugt 5 5 2 2 1 1 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board Meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors to discharge its duties effectively and the table above are available for inspection at the registered office of gives the attendance record for the formal meetings the Company and will be made available prior to the held during the year.
The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The Training appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for Upon appointment, or shortly thereafter, each Director the Board as a whole.
The Directors have access to the receives training on the investment operations and advice and services of the Company Secretary through administration functions of the Company, together its appointed representative who is responsible to the with a summary of their duties and responsibilities.
Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed The Directors also receive regular briefings from, and that applicable rules and regulations are complied amongst others, the AIC, the Auditor and the Company with.
Each of the Directors of the Company is entitled to Secretary regarding any proposed developments or take independent professional advice, at the Companys changes in law or regulations that affect the Company expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
Supply and agenda of information Re-election The Board receives in due time information in a form As required by company law, all newly appointed and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its Directors stand for election by the shareholders at duties.
The Board meeting papers are the key source of the next Annual General Meeting following their regular information for the Board, the contents of which appointment by the Board.
Pursuant to the Companys are determined by the Board and contain sufficient Articles of Association, the Directors offer themselves information on the financial condition of the Company.
for re-election by shareholders every three years.
Key representatives of the Manager attend each Board Directors who have served on the Board for more than meeting, enabling the Board to probe further on matters nine years and any Director who is employed by the of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
Manager are subject to annual re-election.
A procedure has been put in place whereby formal letters of The Board has delegated its corporate governance appointment, which specify the terms of appointment, responsibilities to the Audit and Management are issued to new Directors on appointment and to Engagement Committees, each composed of existing Directors as they retire and are subject to all the independent Directors.
re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board does not believe that the period of time a person may Changes to the Board serve as a Director should be limited.
All appointments to the Board and replacements of Directors take place in accordance with the Companies The names of Directors submitted for re-election are Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
accompanied by sufficient biographical details to enable The Company complies with the requirements of the shareholders to make an informed decision.
AIC Code in respect of appointments to the Board.
Whilst the independent Directors take the lead in the Performance evaluation appointment of new Directors, any proposal for a new A process for the evaluation of the Board, its Director will be discussed and approved by the whole Committees and its Directors has been put in place Board.
As a consequence, there is no Nomination and takes place regularly.
The process includes regular Committee.
External consultants are used to discussion and regular written questionnaires, although identify potential candidates.
the format may change from time to time to ensure that Page 26 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Statement the Board does not become complacent in fulfilling a Going concern box-ticking exercise.
If appropriate, interviews are The Companys business activities and the factors likely held.
The performance and contribution to the Company to affect its future performance and position are set out of each Director holding office during the year to 31 in the Business Review on pages 16 to 19.
Further details December 2008 have been considered and it has been on the management of financial risks may be found at concluded that in each case they have been effective Note 18 to the financial statements on pages 46 to 50. and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The candidature of the two Directors The Board receives regular reports from the Manager seeking re-election has been endorsed by the Board and the Directors believe that, as no material as a whole which commends their re-election to uncertainties leading to significant doubt about going shareholders.
The performance of the Chairman is concern have been identified, it is appropriate to evaluated by the Board in the Chairmans absence on continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing an annual basis.
The Company Secretary and Portfolio the financial statements.
Manager also participate in parts of these processes to provide all-round feedback to the Board.
The results of The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities these evaluations are discussed by the Board and the which are readily realisable and, accordingly, the process is considered to be constructive in terms of Company has adequate financial resources to continue identifying areas for improving the functioning and in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Expenses and liabilities are relatively stable: accounting revenue and expense forecasts are maintained and Directors remuneration reported to the Board regularly and the Auditor has The level of Directors fees is determined by the reviewed the adoption of the going concern basis in the whole Board, although Directors do not vote on their preparation of the accounts and has reported that it own fees, and therefore a separate Remuneration believes the approach to be appropriate.
The next Committee has not been appointed.
Rather than continuation vote will be held this year.
setting their own remuneration levels, the Directors seek a recommendation from the Manager.
This Internal control proposal takes into account the responsibilities, The Board is responsible for the Companys system commitment and work involved for the Directors of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The together with the levels of remuneration paid by similar Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, companies.
Since all Directors are non-executive, the including the Manager, the management of the Company is not required to comply with the principles investment portfolio, the custodial services which of the Combined Code in respect of executive directors include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration remuneration.
Directors fees are disclosed fully in the services and the day to day accounting and company annual report see the Directors Remuneration Report secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was on pages 30 and 31.
Levels of fees are considered to entered into after full and proper consideration by be competitive and sufficient to attract and retain the the Board of the quality and cost of services offered standard of Directors needed to manage the Company including the control systems in operation in so far successfully.
The limit on aggregate fees is governed as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
by the Companys Articles of Association.
Shareholdings by Directors are encouraged and the Directors The Directors review the effectiveness of the Companys share interests are disclosed on page 21 of the systems of internal control on a regular basis.
identification, control and evaluation of risks identified covering financial, operational and compliance matters ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT is formulated by a series of quarterly investment Financial reporting performance reports, a semi-annual internal controls Set out on page 24 is a statement by the Directors of report and quarterly compliance reports as provided their responsibilities in respect of the preparation of by the Manager.
This process is in accordance with the the annual report and financial statements.
The Auditor FRCs Internal control: Revised Guidance of Directors has set out its reporting responsibilities within the Report on the Combined Code, has been in place for the year of the Independent Auditor on page 32. ended 31 December 2008, continued to be in place up to the date of the preparation of these financial The Board has a responsibility to present a balanced statements and is expected to remain in place for the and understandable assessment of annual, half-yearly, coming year.
other price sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, as well as to provide information required to The systems of internal controls are designed to manage be presented by statutory requirements.
All such reports and reduce rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve are reviewed and approved by the Board prior to their business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but issue to ensure that this responsibility is fulfilled.
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Page 27 Corporate Governance Statement The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives Committee considers that collectively its members of the Manager and receives reports on the quality have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience and effectiveness of the accounting records and to discharge their responsibilities fully.
The Committees management information maintained on behalf authority and duties are clearly defined in its written of the Company.
terms of reference which are available on the Companys pages of the Managers website.
These include It reviews the annual and half-yearly financial responsibility for reviewing the half-yearly report and statements and the nature and scope and findings of the annual report and financial statements, reviewing the statutory audit.
The Board carries out a risk and control scope and results of the audit and the effectiveness and assessment including a review of the corporate strategy cost of the audit process and reviewing the Companys and the Managers and other third party suppliers internal financial controls.
The key element of this assessment is the semi-annual internal controls report They also include responsibility for reviewing and prepared by the Manager for its investment trust clients.
monitoring the external Auditors independence and The internal controls report sets out the Managers objectivity with particular regard to the provision of noncontrol policies and procedures with respect to the audit services, taking into consideration relevant UK management of its clients investments.
Whilst the professional and regulatory requirements.
No work other Company, in common with most investment trusts, than the audit was carried out by the Companys Auditor has no internal audit department, the effectiveness during the year except in relation to work on the VAT of these controls is monitored by the Managers internal reclaim.
The Audit Committee of the Board meets the audit function.
The Audit Committee receives and Auditor at least once a year to review these and other reviews the internal controls report on the effectiveness appropriate matters.
In the year to 31 December 2008 of the internal controls maintained on behalf of the the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by Company and an annual compliance report from the inter alia: Managers Head of European Risk and UK Compliance.
Reviewing the Companys draft annual and half-yearly By means of the procedures set out above, the Directors financial statements prior to Board approval and have reviewed the effectiveness of the Managers reviewing the external Auditors report on the annual internal controls systems throughout the period.
financial statements: Determining the appropriateness of the Companys The Board also receives each year from the Manager accounting policies: a report on the Managers internal controls whichReviewing and recommending the audit fee and includes a report from the Managers reporting reviewing any non-audit fees payable to the accountants on the control procedures in operation Companys external Auditor: around the investment management and  the external Auditors terms of processes.
By means of the procedures set out above engagement: and in accordance with the FRCs internal controlEvaluating the external Auditors plan for the audit guidance, the Directors have established an ongoing of the Companys financial statements: process for identifying, evaluating and managing theReviewing the external Auditors quality control significant risks faced by the Company and have procedures: reviewed the effectiveness of the internal controlsAssessing and monitoring the effectiveness of the systems throughout the year.
external audit process and the external Auditors independence and objectivity: Whistle-blowing procedureConsidering the scope of work undertaken by the Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision Managers internal audit department: of a good service pursuant to the ManagementReviewing a semi-annual report on risk and internal Agreement includes the ability for employees of controls and reporting to the Board: Fidelity to raise concerns through a workplace concernsConsidering and reconfirming that it does not escalation policy or whistle-blowing procedure.
need an internal audit function given that the Fidelity is committed to providing the highest level Company delegates its day to day operations of service to its customers and to applying the highest to third parties: and standards of quality, honesty, integrity and probity.
TheRecommending the appointment or re-appointment aim of the policy is to encourage employees and others of the external Auditor.
working for Fidelity to assist the Company in tackling fraud, corruption and other malpractice within the The Committee also reviews corporate governance organisation and in setting standards of ethical issues, the existence and performance of all controls conduct.
This policy is endorsed accordingly.
operating in the Company including the adherence to Section 842 status, the relationship with and the Audit Committee and Auditor performance of third party service providers such The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent as the Registrars and Custodians.
Directors and is chaired by Mr David Simpson.
The Page 28 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Statement include the pursuit of an active investment policy Management Engagement Committee through portfolio management decisions, voting on The Management Engagement Committee consists resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a of all of the independent Directors and is chaired by continuing dialogue with the management of investee Mr Robert Walther.
The Committee is charged with companies.
The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, reviewing and monitoring the performance of the expressly declares that it supports the Statement of Manager and ensuring that the terms of the Companys Principles drawn up by the Institutional Shareholders Management Agreement are competitive and Committee setting out the responsibilities of institutional reasonable for shareholders.
This Committee meets shareholders and agents.
annually and reports to the Board of Directors, making recommendations where appropriate.
The Committees Relations with shareholders terms of reference may be found on the Companys The shareholder profile of the Company is regularly pages of the Managers website.
monitored and the Board liaises with the Manager and the Companys broker to canvass shareholder opinion The level of remuneration of the Manager is agreed and communicate views to shareholders.
The Company by the Management Engagement Committee: it relates is concerned to provide the maximum opportunity for to the investment management function, on which a dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
It percentage of the funds under management is paid.
is believed that institutional shareholders have proper The management fee was renegotiated to include access to the Manager at any time and to the Board if a performance related element with effect from they so wish.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a 1 January 2007. member of the Board directly they should contact the Company Secretary whose details are given on pages The criteria which are taken into consideration in 14 and 57.
All shareholders, particularly individual reviewing the performance of the Manager are set shareholders, are encouraged to attend the Annual out below: General Meeting at which there is a presentation of the past years results and the forthcoming years prospects, Quality of team the skills and particularly the followed by the opportunity to meet the Board and experience of the team involved in managing all representatives of the Manager.
aspects of the Companys business: At general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, Commitment of the Manager to the investment trust except where a poll is called, proxy voting is reported business generally and to the Company in particular: for each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Proxy votes are disclosed on the CompanysManaging the Company in running and controlling pages of the Managers website.
the administration, the accounting and the secretaryship of the Company: The Notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 53 to 55 sets out the business of the meeting Investment management portfolio management and the special resolutions are explained more fully skills, experience and track record and other in the Directors Report on pages 22 and 23.
A investment related considerations including gearing, separate resolution is proposed on each substantially currencies, hedging, buybacks etc: separate issue including the annual report and financial statements.
Shareholders shareholder consciousness and relations, discount management and commitment The Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the to the Companys goals: and Audit Committee will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
Management Agreement consideration of fees, notice periods and duties.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days The Committee met on 15 January 2009 and reviewed before the meeting.
the performance of the Manager for the year to 31 December 2008.
The Committee noted the Companys On behalf of the Board good performance record and the commitment, quality and continuity of the team which was responsible for the Company.
The Committee concluded that it was in the interests of shareholders that the appointment of the Manager should continue.
Details of the Management Agreement appear on pages 20 and 21.
Responsibility as institutional shareholder Robert Walther The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of 2 March 2009 Ownership in relation to investments.
These principles Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Page 29
