Corporate Governance Statement Introduction the Manager is given discretion to act.
Key The Company is committed to high standards of representatives of the Manager attend each Board corporate governance.
The Board has considered meeting.
Board meetings are also held on an ad-hoc the principles and recommendations of the basis to consider particular issues as they arise.
Association of Investment Companies AIC The table below sets out the number of Board Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code and committee meetings held during the year under by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance review and the number of meetings attended by Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
All Directors attended the annual The AIC Code addresses all the principles set general meeting AGM in December 2007. out in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code of Meeting attendance Corporate Governance the Combined Code, A B C as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific Number of meetings 7 2 1 relevance to the Company.
Mr D C P McDougall 7 2 1 The Board believes that the Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Mr W D Eason 7 2 1 Code during the year under review and thereby the provisions of the Combined Code that are relevant Mr R Kanza 7 n a 1 to the Company.
Mr M B Moule 7 2 nil A Full Board meetings.
The Board B Audit and Management Engagement Committee meetings.
The Board is responsible for the effective C London Committee meetings disbanded on 1 January 2008. stewardship of the Companys affairs and a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of The Directors each have a signed letter of appointment the Board has been adopted.
It has responsibility to formalise in writing the terms of their engagement as for all corporate strategic issues, dividend policy, non-executive Directors, copies of which are available share buyback policy, risk and control assessment, on request and at the Companys AGM.
monitoring investment performance, approving The Board believes that it has a reasonable marketing budgets and corporate governance balance of skills, experience and length of service.
It is responsible for the review and approval The Board recognises the value of progressive of annual and half-yearly reports.
The Company refreshing of, and succession planning for, company does not have a chief executive as day-to-day boards.
Accordingly, each Directors appointment management of the Companys affairs has been is reviewed prior to submission for re-election.
All delegated to the Manager.
Directors are required to stand for re-election at least In order to enable them to discharge their every three years, and those Directors serving more responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely than six years are subject to more rigorous review access to relevant information.
The Board meets at before being proposed for re-election.
least six times a year and at each meeting reviews In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the Companys management information, which its committees and the individual Directors, the includes reports on investment performance and Board carried out a thorough appraisal process in strategic matters and financial analyses.
It monitors September 2008 in respect of the year under review.
compliance with the Companys objectives and This encompassed the operation and performance of is responsible for approving the asset allocation, the Board, the Audit and Management Engagement investment and gearing ranges within which Committee and appraisals of the individual Directors.
C opies of the AIC Code, the AIC Guide and the Combined Code may be The Senior Independent Director conducts the found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk and Chairmans appraisal.
The Board does not consider www.
Investors in New Zealand should note that the corporate governance rules and principles applicable to the Company in the UK that the use of external consultants to conduct may differ materially from those of the New Zealand Stock Exchanges Corporate Governance Best Practice Code 26 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC this evaluation is likely to provide any meaningful continuity can be a significant strength.
Therefore, advantage over the process that has been adopted, no limit on the overall length of service of any of the but the option of doing so will be kept under review.
Directors has been imposed, although all Directors Directors are able to seek independent professional who have served for more than nine years are advice or training at the Companys expense in the required to retire and stand for re-election annually.
No such professional The Board believes that its four non-executive advice was taken by the Directors in the year under Directors, including Mr Kanza and Mr McDougall who review.
The Board has direct access to the company have served for over nine years, are independent secretarial advice and services of the Manager which, in character and judgement, with no relationships through its nominated representative, is responsible or circumstances relating to the Company or the for ensuring that Board and committee procedures Manager likely to alter this position.
are followed and applicable regulations are complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and other meetings Board committees are fully recorded through a process that allows any The Board has established an Audit and Management Directors concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
Engagement Committee, details of which are below.
The appointment or removal of the Secretary is a The terms of reference of this Committee are available matter for the Board as a whole in accordance with on the website www.
com the terms of the management agreement.
Appointments of new Directors are made on a The Company has no executive Directors and formal basis with the Board assessing the criteria for no employees, and consequently does not have a any appointments and the methods of recruitment, remuneration committee.
The Directors Remuneration selection, appointment and induction.
Report, which can be found on page 25, provides All new appointments are subject to confirmation information on the remuneration arrangements for the by shareholders and institutional shareholders are Directors of the Company.
given the opportunity to meet any newly appointed Following the retirement of the two overseas Director if they wish.
Directors, and an increase in the number of Board An induction process is in place for new meetings held each year from four to six, the London appointees, who meet the fund manager, the Committee was disbanded on 1 January 2008.
Secretary and other key employees of the Manager This committee was previously in place to deal with and are given a briefing on the workings and administrative matters, oversee the management processes of the Company, including the receipt of a of the portfolio and implement decisions of the Directors handbook and key documentation.
It also undertook The Board carries out an annual review of the the functions of a nomination committee which, as performance of the Manager, considering the the Board is formed entirely of independent noninvestment performance and qualities of the executive Directors and is small in size, are now administrative and support services provided undertaken by the Board and no separate committee to the Company, which includes a review of the has been established.
management agreement, the level and structure of fees payable and the length of notice period.
Audit and Management Engagement Committee The primary responsibilities of the Audit and Independence of Directors Management Engagement Committee Audit The Board regularly reviews the independence of Committee, which meets at least twice each its members in accordance with current guidelines.
year, are to review the integrity and contents of the In line with the AIC Code, the Board feels that Companys financial statements and the accounting length of service does not necessarily compromise policies included therein: to consider compliance the independence or contribution of directors of with regulatory and financial reporting requirements: investment trust companies, where experience and to review the Companys internal control and risk Report and Accounts 2008 27 Corporate Governance Statement continued management systems: to review annually the management functions are delegated to the need for the Company to have its own internal Manager, and the Board monitors the controls audit function: to consider the independence and in place through the Managers audit, risk and objectivity of the auditors and the effectiveness of compliance department.
the audit process: and to make recommendations The Audit Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied to the Board in relation to the reappointment and with, the whistleblowing policy that has been put in remuneration of the auditors.
The Board retains the place by the Manager under which its staff may, ultimate responsibility for the annual and half-yearly in confidence, raise concerns about any possible accounts and other significant financial information improprieties in matters of financial reporting that is published.
or other matters, including those relating to the The Audit Committee has direct access to the Company.
The necessary arrangements are in place auditors,  LLP PwC, for proportionate and independent investigation of who attend Audit Committee meetings to review the such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
annual results and provide a comprehensive review The Audit Committee currently comprises of the audit of the Company.
The Audit Committee Mr McDougall Chairman, Mr Eason and Mr Moule, also has the opportunity to meet with the auditors all of whom are considered to be independent.
It without the Manager being present.
is considered that there is a range of recent and The Manager and the Company use different audit relevant financial experience amongst the members firms, and the Companys auditor is deemed to be of the Audit Committee.
All non-audit work to be undertaken by PwC is approved by the Audit Committee in Internal controls and management of risk advance.
During the year under review the fee for The Board has overall responsibility for the all non-audit work, which was for advice on taxation Companys systems of internal controls, for matters, was 2,000 inclusive of irrecoverable VAT.
reviewing their effectiveness and ensuring that risk The Audit Committee considers that the provision of management and control processes are embedded these services is cost-effective and does not impair in the day-to-day operations of the Company.
These controls aim to ensure that the assets of The Audit Committee has reviewed the work the Company are safeguarded, proper accounting carried out by PwC in the year under review, records are maintained and the financial information including its audit of the annual financial statements.
used within the business and for publication is On the basis of PwCs experience in auditing the reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering affairs of the Company, the standing, experience financial, operational, reputational, compliance and and tenure of the audit partner, the nature and overall risk management, is exercised by the Board level of service provided and confirmation of the through regular reports provided by the Manager on auditors independence, the Audit Committee investment performance, performance attribution, recommended the continuing appointment of the compliance with agreed investment restrictions, auditors to the Board.
financial analyses and other management issues.
A The Committee has direct access to the senior quarterly control report is prepared by the Managers representatives of the Managers audit, risk and audit, risk and compliance department that provides compliance department and to its group audit details of any material internal control failure.
The committee, and reports its findings to the Board.
It control report incorporates a key risk table that receives and reviews the Report referred to below identifies the risks to which the Company is exposed under Internal controls and management of risk.
and the controls in place to mitigate them, including Following a recommendation from the Audit risks that are not directly the responsibility of the Committee, the Board concluded that there Manager.
The Companys principal risks are set out is currently no need for the Company to have its on page 19, with additional information given in note own internal audit function.
All of the Companys 24 on the accounts.
28 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC The systems of internal controls are designed At least one shareholder meeting is held to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to each year to allow shareholders to vote on the achieve business objectives and can only provide appointment of Directors and the auditors, the reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against payment of dividends, share issues and buybacks material mis-statement, loss or fraud.
and any other special business.
All shareholders The Board has carried out a risk and control are encouraged to attend the AGM, at which a assessment including a review of the Managers presentation is made by the Manager and where risk management infrastructure and the report on there is an opportunity to question the Chairman, policies and procedures in operation and tests for the Board and the Manager.
Proxy voting figures the period 1 January to 31 December 2007 the are announced to shareholders at the AGM and are Report that has been prepared by the Manager reported on the website.
All beneficial shareholders for its investment trust clients to the standards of the in the F&C savings plans have the right to attend, Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and speak and vote at general meetings.
Containing A regular dialogue is maintained with the a report from independent external accountants, Companys institutional shareholders and private the Report sets out the Managers control policies client asset managers through the Manager, and procedures with respect to the management of which regularly reports to the Board on any such its clients investments.
The effectiveness of these contact and any changes to the composition controls is monitored by the Managers group audit of the share register.
The Chairman is available committee which receives regular reports from the to meet with major shareholders, but no such Managers audit, risk and compliance department.
meetings were held in the year under review.
The Procedures are in place to capture and evaluate Senior Independent Director and other Directors failings and weaknesses and ensure that action are available to attend these meetings as and would be taken to remedy any significant issues when required.
The Board welcomes dialogue with identified from this monitoring, which would be shareholders in order to ensure it is aware of any reported to the Board.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Relations with shareholders Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or other Communication with shareholders is given a high members of the Board may do so by writing to the priority.
In addition to the annual and half-yearly Secretary at the registered office address as detailed reports that are distributed to shareholders, interim on page 15. management statements, monthly fact sheets The Board receives regular reports from the and general information are also available on the Manager on the views and attitudes of shareholders in www.
The the Company, the level and nature of any complaints annual report and notice of AGM are normally sent to received from investors and its arrangements for shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
