any other directorships they hold and must identify company directors to declare any interest in an the interests of any person closely connected to actual or proposed transaction or arrangement with them in order to consider whether a situational the Company.
conflict could arise out of those interests.
A Director wishing to seek authorisation must Board committees submit a formal request to the Nomination Committee The Board has appointed a Nomination Committee when it is deciding whether or not to recommend and an Audit Committee as set out below.
Copies authorisation of a situational conflict, or when the of the terms of reference of the committees are Board is deciding whether or not to authorise the available on request and can also be found on the situational conflict.
The factors to be considered will Companys website at www.
include whether the situational conflict could prevent Membership is listed on page 29 and attendance the Director from properly performing his duties: at meetings on page 33.
The Private Equity whether the situational conflict has, or could have, Committee and the Service Providers and Marketing any impact on the Company, for example, in financial Committee were disbanded on 1 May 2008 and or public relations terms and whether the situational their responsibilities allocated between the Fund conflict could be regarded as fide minimis and unlikely Manager, the Audit Committee and the Board.
to affect the judgment and or actions of the Director in question.
Nomination Committee Where the Board authorises a conflict, terms will The role of the Nomination Committee is to review usually be attached.
These will include the Director and make recommendations to the Board with absenting himself from meetings where the subject of regard to: the conflict is discussed and notifying the Company i Board structure, size and composition, the Secretary, who keeps a register of conflicts, as balance of knowledge, experience, skill range, soon as the facts of the matter change.
A Director diversity and age profile: interested in a matter must also abstain from voting ii succession planning and tenure policy: on it.
iii the criteria for future Board appointments The Board implemented authorisation procedures and the methods of recruitment, selection, in October 2008, during which no situational appointment and induction: conflicts were identified or authorised other than iv the appointment of new Directors and the the formal authorisation of the Directors other re-appointment of those Directors standing for existing directorships.
re-election at annual general meetings: Going forward, the Nomination Committee will review v changes in committee membership: annually any situational conflicts which have been vi the attendance and time commitment of the authorised, together with any updates that have been Directors in fulfilling their duties, including the provided by the relevant Director.
Provided that there extent of their other directorships: has been no material change in circumstance and the vii the question of each Directors independence prior Nomination Committee is of the view that the situational to publication of the Annual Report and Accounts: conflict has not affected the individual in his role as a viii the authorisation of each Directors conflicts of Director of the Company, the Nomination Committee interests in accordance with the provisions of will usually not recommend any change to the terms the Companies Act 2006 and the policy and of the authorisation.
Where the Nomination Committee procedures established by the Board in relation is notified that the facts have changed materially, it will to these provisions: and review the change, consider whether the authorisation ix the Directors contract for services and terms of should be renewed, varied or withdrawn, and make its office as set out in their Letter of Appointment.
recommendation to the Board accordingly.
All of the Nomination Committees responsibilities have Aside from situational conflicts, the Directors been carried out over the course of 2008 and in January must also comply with the statutory rules requiring 2009.
The Board appointed three new Directors during Report and Accounts 2008 35
