Corporate Governance Statement Introduction Fund Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the The Board has considered the principles set out in the approval of private equity and unlisted investments Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by and all investments in in-house funds managed the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the or advised by the Manager.
Strategic issues are Combined Code and the AIC Code of Corporate reviewed regularly.
The Board believes The following table sets out the number of Directors that during the period under review the Company has meetings including committee meetings held and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code, attended during the year under review.
The Board in so far as they relate to the Companys business.
held an Away-Day meeting in November 2008 to The Board is also adhering to the principles and consider strategic issues and also met in closed recommendations of the AIC Code.
session on three occasions during the year, without any representation from the Manager.
All the Directors The Board attended the Annual General Meeting.
The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of Directors attendance the Companys affairs and has Service Providers reviewed the schedule of matters Private and Audit Nomination Equity Marketing reserved for its decision, which Board Committee Committee Committee Committee are categorised under various No.
of meetings 10 5 2 1 2 headings, including strategy, M A Loveday 10 n a 2 n a n a policy, finance, risk, investment 1 R Bone 8 n a n a n a n a re s tr i c ti o n s, p e r fo r m a n c e, 2 M W Bunbury 10 5 1 1 n a marketing, appointments, the 3 S Burley 10 2 n a n a n a Board and public documents.
4 D Clementi 7 n a n a n a n a It has responsibility for all 5 R J Gould 10 3 n a n a 2 corporate strategic issues, C A Keljik 10 5 n a n a 2 dividend policy, share buyback 6 policy and corporate governance E C S Macpherson 2 n a 1 1 n a 7 matters.
In order to enable them J L Rennocks 2 1 n a 1 n a to discharge their responsibilities, M C B Ward 10 n a 2 1 n a 1 Appointed as a Director with effect 6 March 2008. all Directors have full and timely 2 Joined Nomination Committee on 17 September 2008. access to relevant information.
At 3 Joined Audit Committee on 17 September 2008.
4 Appointed as a Director with effect 23 May 2008. each meeting the Board reviews 5 Joined Audit Committee on 1 May 2008.
6 Retired 1 May 2008. the Companys investment 7 Retired 1 May 2008. performance and considers financial analyses and other reports of an operational The Board aims to maintain a balance of skills, nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the experience, diversity, and length of service through Companys objectives and is responsible for setting succession planning.
A nine year limit is imposed asset allocation, investment and gearing limits within on tenure to be served by new Directors, only to which the Fund Manager has discretion to act, and be exceeded for phasing and continuity purposes thus supervises the management of the investment where experience can add to the strength of the portfolio which is contractually delegated to the Board, or in exceptional circumstances.
The Board has the right of veto over the to review the effectiveness of the Board, the appointment of sub-managers recommended by the Committees and the individual Directors, the Chairman carried out a thorough appraisal process Investors in New Zealand should note that the corporate governance rules and principles applicable to the Company in the UK may in December 2008 in respect of the year under differ from those of the New Zealand Stock Exchanges Corporate review.
This encompassed both quantitative and Governance Best Practice Code.
