Corporate Governance Statement continued the year upon the recommendation of the Committee.
The Committee has also been responsible for the This followed the appointment of a search agency in review of stock lending performance and restrictions 2007 for the purpose of finding replacement Directors applying to that activity, which was ceased in for those retiring in 2007 and 2008, and the selection September 2008. process applied by the Committee.
The final decision The Audit Committee has direct access to the with regard to appointments always rests with the Board Auditors,  LLP, and to and all such appointments are subject to confirmation the internal audit, risk and compliance director of by shareholders.
An induction process is in place for the Manager, and to the Managers group audit new appointees to the Board.
committee, and reports its findings to the Board.
The Board retains ultimate responsibility for all aspects Remuneration Committee relating to the annual and interim accounts and other As the Board has no executive Directors and significant published financial information.
no employees, and is composed solely of nonAll of the Audit Committees responsibilities have executives, it does not have a remuneration been carried out at its meetings held over the committee.
Detailed information on the remuneration course of 2008 and in February 2009.
A meeting arrangements for the Directors of the Company can has been held with the Auditors to review the work be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on carried out for the audit of the annual financial pages 31 and 32 and in note 6 on the accounts.
The Auditors also attend each of the scheduled Audit Committee meetings and, on the Audit Committee basis of these meetings, the Audit Committee The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee has been able to assess the effectiveness of the are to external audit.
In completing this review, the Audit i monitor the integrity of the financial statements Committee has taken into account the standing, of the Company and any formal announcements experience and tenure of the audit partner and his relating to the Companys financial performance: team, the nature and level of services provided, ii review the Companys internal financial controls and confirmation that they have complied with the and the internal control and risk management relevant UK independence standards.
The Manager systems applicable to the Company: and the Company use different audit firms.
On the iii review annually the need for the Company to basis of its assessment, the Audit Committee has have its own internal audit function: recommended the continuing appointment of the iv make recommendations to the Board in relation to auditors to the Board.
The Audit Committee has the re-appointment of the Auditors and to approve also reviewed the provision of non-audit services, their remuneration and terms of engagement: which cost 16,000 in 2008, and considers them v review and monitor the Auditors independence to be cost effective and not to compromise the and objectivity and the effectiveness of the independence of the Auditors.
The non-audit audit process: services include taxation matters and the review vi develop and implement policy on the of the interim results.
The Chairman of the Audit engagement of the Auditors to supply nonCommittee is advised of non-audit work required audit services: and a decision to authorise is taken on a case-byvii review Directors and Officers liability insurance: case basis.
Further information can be found in note viii review and monitor the Companys service 6 on the accounts.
providers, and the fees charged in respect of Following a recommendation from the Audit those services including those of the Manager Committee, the Board has concluded that there is and Custodian: no current need for the Company to have an internal ix review the Managers dealing efficiency and audit function: all of the Companys management associated costs: and functions are delegated to the Manager, which x review trade marks and intellectual property rights.
has its own internal Audit, Risk and Compliance 36 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
