29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:01 Page 63 NOMINATION COMMITTEE WITH-PROFITS COMMITTEES I REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE THE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE INDUCTION OF NEW DIRECTORS The purpose of the Committee is to lead the process for Board There is a full induction process in place for new directors which appointments and make recommendations to the Board.
It ensures recognises the complexities of the Life and Pensions businesses.
the existence of a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure, The objective of induction is to inform the director such that the aim of which is to ensure that appointments are appropriate he or she can become as effective as possible in their new role to the needs of the Group and the balance of the Board.
The induction programme is designed to provide certain key, essential information on the Company, The detailed terms of reference of the Committee are published its operations and its staff.
on the Companys website at www.
com investor and can also be obtained on written request to the Company Non-executive directors are expected to visit at least one site a Secretary.
year organised by the Company Secretary.
New directors are expected in their first year to meet with the directors of the MEMBERSHIP Groups life and pensions operations, the Companys external The members of the Committee are Sir Mervyn Pedelty auditors and F&C and Lombard directors.
Chairman, Sir Adrian Montague, Lady Judge and Ray King.
In Sir Mervyn Pedeltys absence due to illness, a number of The Company organises two analysts briefings every year, meetings were chaired by Sir Adrian Montague in 2008. which new directors may attend as an observer, on request.
The Secretary to the Committee is Gordon Ellis, Company On-going training and development is achieved by circulation of Secretary.
The Chief Executive Officer attends, when required, bulletins from legal, actuarial advisers and external auditors, by invitation of the Chairman.
For the entirety of 2008, and up attendance at seminars organised by external bodies such as the to the date of this report, the Company complied with the Institute of Directors and the Association of British Insurers or requirements of the Combined Code in so far as they relate the major accountancy firms, and attendance at presentations on to the work of nomination committees.
industryor company-specific issues given at Board meetings.
MEETINGS On behalf of the Board The Committee met on eight occasions in 2008 and a record of members attendance at those meetings is set out on page 55.
Sir Mervyn Pedelty Chairman, Nomination Committee ACTIVITIES AND WORK OF THE COMMITTEE 26 March 2009 With the assistance of external executive search consultants, the Committee led the search and recruitment process to appoint a number of non-executive directors during 2008 as well as the Chief Executive Officer, Interim Chief Financial Officer and the new Chief Financial Officer.
In doing so, the Committee considered fully the leadership needs of the Group, especially in light of the conclusion of the strategic review, and the mix of skills and experience that would complement the existing Board members and be of most benefit to the Group.
The individual terms and conditions of appointment of nonexecutive directors can be inspected during normal business hours at the Companys registered office by contacting the Company Secretary.
The Committee has assessed whether each independent director is fulfilling his or her duties, confirmed the time required of non-executive directors for the fulfilment of their duties, and made recommendations to the Board as to the independence of directors and their suitability for re-election as directors.
The Committee has also reviewed the relevant parts of the draft 2009 AGM notice to shareholders to ensure that those matters which could be regarded as within the Committees remit, for example, the biographical details of directors and their independence, are appropriately disclosed.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 63
