29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:01 Page 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS I DIRECTORS REPORT I CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES AND WORK OF THE COMMITTEE The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in Throughout the year, the Committee has monitored the integrity discharging its responsibilities for: of the financial statements through a review of the quarterly new business results and final and interim report and accounts.
the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and As part of its normal responsibilities, the Committee has dealt any formal announcements relating to the Companys with compliance with the relevant parts of the Combined Code, financial performance: the effectiveness of internal controls and reporting procedures the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal for risk management processes.
In particular, the Committee control and financial reporting: has agreed the annual audit plan with the external auditor and oversight of the Groups compliance activities and the has considered the auditors reports and has monitored and effectiveness of any compliance management programme followed up management actions in response to the issues for any Group company: and raised.
The Committee also worked closely with Internal Audit the effectiveness of the internal and external auditors.
and agreed the annual internal audit plan and reviewed the performance and resourcing of Internal Audit.
The Committee The detailed terms of reference of the Committee are published also reviewed the Companys policy on whistle-blowing, the on the Companys website at www.
com investor anti-money laundering procedures and the annual compliance and can also be obtained on written request to the Company plan for the Companys UK life and pensions subsidiaries.
Secretary at the Companys registered office.
With effect from November 2008, the newly established Board MEMBERSHIP Risk Committee became responsible for certain risk-related The members of the Committee are Ray King Chairman, responsibilities of the Committee.
Sir Mervyn Pedelty, Robin Phipps from 1 January 2009, Gerhard Roggemann and David Rough.
Alison Carnwath retired The use of the auditor for non-audit work is approved by the as a director and member of the Committee following the AGM Committee or its Chairman within his delegated authority.
The Secretary to the Committee is Gordon Ellis, Company Secretary.
On an annual basis, the Committee reviews the effectiveness of the external auditor and has made a recommendation to the MEETINGS Board on the re-appointment of the auditor.
Within the schedule During 2008, the Committee met on six occasions, timed to of meetings, the Committee fulfilled its main role and coincide with the financial reporting and audit cycles of the responsibilities and as a consequence can confirm that it has Company.
A record of members attendance at meetings during met the requirements of the Combined Code in so far as they 2008 is set out on page 55. relate to the work of audit committees during 2008 and up to the date of this report.
Meetings are normally attended by the external auditor, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Executive Officer and, periodically, On behalf of the Board the Chief Risk Officer, the Director of Governance, the Managing Director, Finance and the Head of Internal Audit.
Ray King Chairman, Audit and Compliance Committee 26 March 2009 62 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008
