29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:01 Page 55 NOMINATION COMMITTEE I WITH-PROFITS COMMITTEES I REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE ROLE OF THE BOARD Total number of meetings B ACC N R I BR see key below 16 6 8 11 4 1 The Board is responsible for the overall management of the Sir Adrian Montague Company, ensuring that it achieves its objectives.
It determines Chairman 16 8 10 3 the Companys strategic direction and regularly reviews Lady Judge operating and financial performance in light of agreed strategy, Deputy Chairman 16 8 11 3 objectives, business plans and budgets, taking corrective action Alison Carnwath where necessary.
The specific duties of the Board are clearly Non-executive director set out in its terms of reference which include those matters retired May 2008 3 specifically reserved for its decision.
These include: Ray King Non-executive director 15 6 8 4 1 Group Strategic Plan and Business Plan including the Sir Mervyn Pedelty Annual Budget: Non-executive director 2 0 0 1 Acquisitions and disposals: Robin Phipps Capital structure: Non-executive director appointed November 2008 1 Financial reporting and controls: Gerhard Roggemann Internal controls and risk management: Non-executive director 16 6 4 1 Shareholder communication: David Rough Establishment of Board committees: and Non-executive director appointed June 2008 6 3 5 2 1 Key business policies.
Charles Bellringer Chief Financial Officer During the year, the Board was also engaged in overseeing the appointed August 2008 5 2 implementation of the strategic review as announced in January Ben Gunn 2008, establishing a new governance structure and monitoring Chief Executive, FPLP the introduction of the Financial Services Authority initiative on retired November 2008 12 Treating Customers Fairly by the 31 December 2008 deadline.
Alain Grisay Chief Executive, F&C 16 1 BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE Trevor Matthews Chief Executive Officer The current membership of the Board and the significant appointed July 2008 6 1 commitments of the directors are stated on pages 50 and 51.
Jim Smart The names of the chairman and members of each of the Audit Chief Financial Officer and Compliance, Nomination and Remuneration Committees resigned August 2008 12 2 are stated in the reports of those committees.
During 2008, the Board met on fifteen occasions and directors also attended an KEY: B Board ACC Audit and Compliance Committee off-site strategy meeting.
Ten meetings were held as part of the N Nomination Committee regular Board schedule of meetings.
A number of additional R Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year, primarily in connection with I Investment Committee BR Board Risk Committee the strategic review.
The total number of meetings including Board committees and the attendance of directors at these meetings are shown opposite.
Committee made a number of appointments to the Board.
Due to illness, Sir Mervyn Pedelty was unable to attend most Details of the process followed are contained in the report of Board and Committee meetings during the year.
Sir Mervyn the Nomination Committee on page 63.
The non-executive resumed his duties in January 2009. directors have a wide range of experience and the Board is able The Board accepts the Nomination Committees assessment to lead and give direction to the Group without any imbalance and considers all six non-executive directors to be independent that may allow any individual or group of individuals to dominate in character and judgment and is not aware of any relationships its decision taking.
Any director having a concern in this or any or circumstances which are likely to affect the judgment of other regard may raise it with the Chairman or the senior any of them.
The Nomination Committee works closely with the Board in All directors have access to the advice and services of the order to ensure that the non-executive directors have the Company Secretary who ensures that Board processes and appropriate balance of skills and experience to support the leading corporate governance practice are followed.
There is also activities of the Board and to help the Group to compete an established procedure whereby individual directors may take effectively in the market place.
During 2008, the Nomination independent, professional advice at the Companys expense.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 55 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:01 Page 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS I DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, ensures During the year, the Board introduced changes to the governance that the directors receive timely and clear information on all structures and decision-making bodies within the Company, relevant matters.
At Board meetings, directors receive reports intended to improve ways of operating and to support the new from the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, strategy.
These changes: risk management and each of the key business areas.
clarified accountabilities so as to reduce duplication of effort The Board deals with those matters specifically reserved for its and responsibilities: decision and takes all material decisions affecting the Group.
enabled decisions to be taken more swiftly: The non-executive directors have a private session after each improved the levels of challenge and controls: and Board meeting without the executive directors being present.
enabled the organisation to operate more efficiently.
The Board regularly reviews strategy and members of executive At the same time, a detailed review of the role and responsibilities management also participate in an annual strategic review that of the committees of the Board was undertaken and, as a result, considers overall business direction and its financial implications.
a new committee, the Board Risk Committee, was established.
Individual business units prepare annual budgets and business plans that provide a basis against which actual results can be All committees of the Board that are subject to the requirements benchmarked.
Assets, liabilities, investments and other relevant of the Combined Code are chaired by an independent director criteria are also monitored.
Progress against plans is actively and exclusively comprise, or, in the case of the Remuneration monitored and supported by regular forecasts, which, together and Nomination Committees where the Chairman of the Board with actual results, are consolidated and presented to the Board is a member, have a majority of, independent directors.
The Board committees are constituted with appropriate written terms of reference that are reviewed annually and the minutes Through these mechanisms, the businesss performance is of Board committees are circulated promptly to the full Board.
continually monitored, risks are identified, their financial Reports on the activities of the Audit and Compliance, implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are included on where appropriate, corrective actions agreed and implemented.
Other significant committees reporting to the Board of the Company or the life and pensions subsidiaries are: PERFORMANCE, TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT The Board normally carries out an annual assessment of its With-Profits Committees WPCs of the life and pensions own performance, of its committees and individual directors.
operating companies In 2008, a review of Board performance was carried out by Details of the membership and operation of the WPCs are set  PwC, the results of which were out on pages 64 and 65. presented to the Board in January 2009.
The Board will undertake a further review during 2009, once the new governance structure Investment Committee is fully embedded, and the effect of any remedial actions David Rough Chairman, Charles Bellringer from 15 August recommended by the PwC report can be assessed.
2008, Alain Grisay until 26 June 2008, Lady Judge, Ray King, Trevor Matthews from 30 July 2008, Sir Adrian Montague, After the Board meeting in January 2009, the senior independent Gerhard Roggemann and Jim Smart until 15 August 2008. director met with the non-executive directors other than the The Committee ensures that the shareholder and policyholder Chairman to discuss the performance of the Chairman.
It was assets of the Group are invested appropriately within the risk agreed that the Chairman had continued to perform effectively appetite determined by the Board Risk Committee.
It considers throughout the year and had provided strong leadership to the and recommends to the Board the Groups overall investment Group, particularly in his role as executive director prior to the policy having regard to the requirement that the assets should appointment of Trevor Matthews in July 2008.
Throughout 2008, be invested to produce the best possible return consistent with the Board received presentations from various business units a prudent approach to the security of policyholders and on their activities together with teach-ins covering industryshareholders interests and the fair treatment of policyholders.
and Company-specific financial, accounting and actuarial issues.
Directors also attend internal briefings on technical topics in Board Risk Committee accordance with their individual development requirements and Gerhard Roggemann Chairman, Ray King, Robin Phipps from external seminars to keep up to date with regulations and best 1 January 2009 and David Rough.
The Board Risk Committee practice affecting the Groups core businesses.
The objective of the Committee is to oversee the risk management framework for There is a full induction process in place for new directors that the Group.
In particular, it reviews and recommends to the recognises the complexities of the Life and Pensions businesses Board the Groups overall risk management vision, the strategies and aims to enable directors to make a full contribution to Board and policy for managing risk and the Groups risk appetite.
It discussions within an optimum timeframe.
also considers and approves the Groups policies in relation to strategic, reputational, financial, operational and enterprise risks, including the process for identifying and assessing business risks and the management of these risks by the Company.
56 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:01 Page 57 NOMINATION COMMITTEE I WITH-PROFITS COMMITTEES I REMUNERATION REPORT INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has in place ongoing and developing processes for The Group seeks to take appropriate and managed risks in line identifying and evaluating the significant risks it faces and for with the Groups risk appetite.
The Boards vision for risk managing those risks in line with the Groups risk appetite.
management is an environment where business managers can These processes have been in place for the year under review take risks with confidence, and where consideration of risk is and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report & Accounts.
embedded into business planning, decision-making and The Board, through the risk committee structure, regularly everyday management.
It seeks to have in place the people, reviews the processes and confirms that they comply with the processes and systems to: Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the identify and understand the risks facing the business: Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council.
select the appropriate risks to accept, and price correctly for them: The Board of the Company is ultimately responsible for the avoid, mitigate or transfer the inappropriate risks: and Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their monitor the businesss risk profile against agreed risk appetite.
These systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, RISK APPETITE as no business can be successful without taking some risk.
Risk appetite is an expression of the level of acceptable and or They can thus provide reasonable but not absolute assurance unacceptable risk and is determined by the Board and senior against material mis-statement or loss.
The Groups willingness to take on risk is set with reference to its capacity to bear risk.
The Board has set risk The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness appetite for the Group as a whole, and has approved more of the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management detailed risk appetite statements for the individual businesses.
and has taken into account recommendations from the Qualitatively, risk appetite is set within a range from risk seeking Audit and Compliance Committee ACC following its review to zero tolerance, which varies according to the type of risk.
of the Groups governance and risk management framework.
The ACC has received: RISK CATEGORISATION a report from the Groups risk management function on the Risks are categorised as strategic, financial or operational.
operation and development of the risk management framework: Strategic risks are those arising from the choice of a particular a report summarising various reviews and reports from senior strategy, or from external forces that might impair the Groups management within the risk framework commenting on the ability to realise its strategy.
The Boards appetite for strategic matters within their respective remits: and risk varies from risk seeking, for example in relation to finding a report from the Groups independent internal audit function and exploiting new applications of technology, to risk averse, on the effectiveness of the risk management framework and, for example in relation to actions or events that could damage specifically, of the evidence that the Combined Code is the Groups reputation.
Financial risks arise from changes in financial risk factors and Through this process of review, the ACC was able to recommend include credit, insurance, liquidity and market risks.
The Boards to the Board the approval of the statements concerning internal appetite for the different categories of financial risks can vary by controls and risk management.
risk type, by company within the Group and by the funds or assets concerned.
More details of financial risk appetite are included in As indicated last year, a new streamlined organisation structure, the notes to the financial statements on pages 152 to 163. simplified decision-making and enhanced internal control processes have been introduced during 2008.
The Board believes Operational risks can arise in the Groups internal processes and these will provide enhanced challenge and risk analysis and that systems, through its people or from external events.
The Board the control processes now in place will result in improved aims to maintain an appropriate control environment to keep information being reported to the Board and management, the exposure to operational risks in line with the agreed risk allowing them to monitor progress effectively and to respond when appetite, recognising that operational risks may arise in the plans are not being achieved.
Further enhancements will be made normal course of business even when carried out in line with to the embedding of the risk management framework in 2009. the Groups policies and applicable regulation.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 57 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 17:33 Page 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS I DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE on three lines of defence.
Primary accountability for managing risk RISK PROCESSES lies with the business units, and with those specialist functions The strategic and financial risk processes are aligned to the that are responsible for specific operational processes, such as business planning process, with risk being identified and evaluated Human Resources, IT and Facilities Management.
in relation to the achievement of business objectives.
During 2008, the business planning process has been strengthened.
A second line of defence is provided by specialist functions that The Groups risk function is now more closely integrated into the undertake policy-setting and monitoring roles, such as process and more able to provide challenge, encouraging Compliance, Legal and the Groups independent risk function.
debate around the key risks associated with any chosen strategy.
The third line of defence is provided by Internal Audit, which has The risk function works in co-operation with key business units.
responsibility for providing independent assurance over the risk Risks within business change activities are identified and management process and the internal controls environment.
evaluated by the management of the change programme both in relation to the delivery of the programme and in terms of the The diagram opposite illustrates the structure for risk management change programmes effect on the business as a whole.
reporting flows, including the interaction of various committees with the Board of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Operational risk is identified and evaluated within business units using a risk and control self-assessment process.
Risks are The risk committees within the Group have terms of reference recorded on an operational risk database, along with details of the that describe their roles in the identification, assessment, controls in place to manage the risks and any remedial actions management and monitoring of risk.
necessary to improve those controls.
Risks are managed as closely as possible to the source of the risk with appropriate escalation The Board: of key risks to senior management and the Board as necessary.
is responsible for the risk management framework and for approving risk policy and risk appetite: Specific risk identification and assessment methodologies are has delegated to the Board Risk Committee BRC authority in place for merger and acquisition and strategic investment to approve the Groups overall risk framework and to endorse opportunities, new product developments and general project the risk frameworks of the operating subsidiaries to the and change management programmes.
extent required by their local statutory obligations: and The governance and risk management structures described considers quarterly reports summarising the Groups key risks below apply to all the risks facing the Group, including those and the actions in place to control them, and receives a brief that arise from environmental, social and governance matters.
monthly update on the key risks and issues as part of its regular management information.
GOVERNANCE The Board Risk Committee: As indicated last year, the Group has introduced a streamlined is a non-executive committee, formed in the final quarter of organisation structure and enhanced internal control processes 2008, and has oversight of risk management across the during 2008 and this has been reflected in the Groups risk Group, including the Financial Risk Committee and the governance arrangements.
Operational responsibility within the Operational Risk Committee: Group continues to rest with the Chief Executive Officer CEO, being devolved through an executive structure with clearly reviews and recommends to the Board for approval detailed delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
The CEO has policies for the management of specific classes of risks: and delegated to the Chief Financial Officer responsibility for the considers quarterly reporting from the operating businesses.
development of a risk management framework for the Group appropriate to the nature, scale and complexity of its business.
The CEO: Pending the successful demerger of F&C during 2009, the Chief with the support of the Friends Leadership Team FLT is Executive of F&C has operational responsibility to the board of accountable for the management of risk across the Group F&C and its shareholders, reporting appropriately to the Board of in accordance with the high-level policy and risk appetite set the Company as controlling shareholder.
Members of Group by the Board: management are, therefore, accountable for the operation of the is supported by the Financial Risk Committee FRC and the systems of internal control within the Groups core businesses.
Operational Risk Committee ORC that oversee the management of risks and the implementation of the detailed Business unit management is responsible for putting in place the risk appetite for risks within their respective remits.
ongoing management and monitoring disciplines for risks and activities under its control.
The structure is designed to provide The Financial Risk Committee and Operational clear responsibilities and control for key areas of the Groups Risk Committee: business, and includes whistle-blowing procedures to enable have been strengthened during 2008 with revised terms staff to raise concerns in confidence.
Through these of reference: mechanisms, the performance of the business is monitored, are chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and the Managing risks are identified in a timely manner, their financial implications Director, People and Change respectively: assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and, where have oversight of the management of risks across the Group appropriate, corrective actions agreed and implemented.
within their respective remits: and support the CEO and FLT in ensuring risk management is The Groups governance structures for risk management are based embedded in the business.
58 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:01 Page 59 NOMINATION COMMITTEE I WITH-PROFITS COMMITTEES I REMUNERATION REPORT Risk information flows for risk management FP plc Board Board Risk Committee Friends Leadership Team Operational Risk Committee Financial Risk Committee UK International People and Change Customer Operations Other FPIL Risk information flows Board Committee Business function Lombard Friends Provident International and Lombard: risks in the Asset Management business and reviews and Friends Provident International and Lombard have risk committees agrees procedures to control these risks, where possible.
comprising executive directors and other relevant senior managers Quarterly reports are prepared by each of the F&C business that oversee their risk management processes and report to the units across all locations.
The F&C management committee, ORC, FRC, FLT and BRC as appropriate and into their respective which includes all executive directors of F&C and other senior boards so far as is required by their local statutory obligations.
managers, discusses these reports and all significant items are The boards of FPIL and Lombard are authorised to determine identified and reported to the F&C board, FLT and the Board their respective high-level policies for the management of risk, Risk Committee on a regular basis.
F&C provides a quarterly subject to the oversight of the BRC, so far as is necessary to summary of its key risks to the Groups Risk function.
comply with local statutory and regulatory requirements.
The Risk function: Sesame Group Limited and Pantheon Financial Limited: The Groups Risk function has been strengthened in the fourth Throughout the last year, the Groups distributor firms have quarter by the creation of the role of Chief Risk Officer CRO.
maintained their respective risk management arrangements, The CRO will: which are appropriate for the nature, scale and complexity of provide overall leadership, vision and direction for the their businesses.
Reporting of significant risks and issues is effective, efficient and consistent identification, evaluation made to the Board, through the Groups Risk function.
In the and management of significant risks across the business: coming months, the Risk function will work with these lead the development, selection, implementation, validation businesses to align risk management policies, where this is and maintenance of processes, procedures and systems to appropriate, and to integrate more fully the monitoring and ensure risks are managed within parameters set by the Board: reporting of risk where this is practical and will support more provide independent, informed and objective challenge to efficient and effective risk management.
executive line management on the identification, assessment and management of key risks: and F&C: report quarterly to the BRC on the management of risks.
The board of F&C determines its policy for the management of risk and, in conjunction with management, identifies the major Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 59 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:01 Page 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS I DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE INDEPENDENCE OF EXTERNAL AUDITOR REPORTING TO SHAREHOLDERS The Combined Code requires the Company to explain the The Company places considerable importance on communications process to ensure that the auditors objectivity and with shareholders and responds to them on a wide range of independence is safeguarded in its provision of non-audit issues.
The Company identified enhanced disclosure as a key services to the Group.
outcome of its strategy announced in January 2008 and has taken steps to provide more meaningful and detailed information During the year, the Audit and Compliance Committee evaluated on its performance to shareholders.
It has an ongoing programme the independence of the external auditor and satisfied itself of of dialogue and meetings with major institutional shareholders, its integrity, competence and professionalism.
Having given full where a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, consideration to the Committees evaluation, the Board has performance, management and governance is discussed.
Further, satisfied itself that no aspect of the work of the independent the Chairman and the senior independent director are available auditor was impaired on these grounds.
In maintaining a clear to meet major shareholders and the Chairman writes annually perception of independence and balancing that with the best to the 20 largest shareholders, emphasising his availability interests of the Company, the Board has also considered the should they wish to meet with him.
During 2008, 48 such policy for awarding audit-related and or non-audit work to the meetings of institutional shareholders with the Chairman took Groups external auditor.
The Company does not impose an place 2007: six.
The higher number in 2008 reflects the automatic ban on any Group companys external auditor Chairmans position as an executive director for the first seven undertaking non-audit work.
The Groups aim is always to have months of the year.
Following his appointment as Chief Executive any non-audit work carried out in a manner that affords best Officer, and after a period of familiarisation with the Company, value for money.
The auditor must not be in a position of Trevor Matthews undertook several days of meetings with conflict in respect of the work in question and must have the investors in October and November 2008.
During the year, the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best Chairman and the directors met with the Companys joint interests of the Company and the Group.
brokers, JPMorgan Cazenove and Goldman Sachs International, following presentations to major shareholders by executive In particular, the external auditor is not permitted to: management.
This helps the non-executive directors to maintain perform work that involves the valuation of an asset or liability an up-to-date understanding of the views of major shareholders.
incorporated into any of the Companys financial statements: act as secondees to positions of influence within the Group: At its AGM, the Company complies with the provisions of the Combined Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the design and implement systems that have financial implications: separation of resolutions and the attendance of directors, provide internal audit services where an opinion has to be particularly committee chairmen.
The timing of the despatch of given on managements assessment of accounting controls the formal notice of the AGM complies with the Combined and financial systems: Code.
The outcome of every general meeting of shareholders, provide litigation support services: including detailed voting results and votes withheld, is published provide corporate finance services: and on the Companys website following the close of the meeting.
advise on senior executives remuneration.
INVESTMENT APPROACH The auditor of the Company is permitted to perform audit-related As an institutional investor, the Company aims to exercise wise and non-audit work in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit and stewardship over the companies in which it invests.
Compliance Committee or its Chairman, it is appropriate for it to The Companys approach to socially responsible investments do so and there are no actual or perceived independence issues.
has been enhanced by the Responsible Engagement Overlay reo developed by the Companys fund manager, F&C, The Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee is which complies with the principles set out in the Institutional authorised to approve the use of auditors for audit-related and Shareholders Committees Code of Activism, including non-audit work provided that the cost does not exceed 100,000 comprehensive and considered voting and dialogue, where and the aggregate value of audit-related and non-audit work appropriate, with investee companies.
The Companys policy awarded to auditors does not exceed the audit fee for the on socially responsible investment can be found on the financial year in question.
In other circumstances, the approval Companys website www.
com sri, which also of the Audit and Compliance Committee is required.
includes the voting reports, voting policy and latest newsletter.
If the Committee considers it appropriate, the provision of audit services may be formally market-tested through a tender process involving those audit firms judged competent to meet the needs of the Group.
The frequency of this market-testing will depend on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading practice.
60 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:01 Page 61 NOMINATION COMMITTEE I WITH-PROFITS COMMITTEES I REMUNERATION REPORT for the parent company financial statements, state whether STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Following the resignation of Philip Moore on 13 November 2007, the parent company financial statements: and Sir Adrian Montague was appointed Executive Chairman until Trevor Matthews took up his appointment as Chief Executive prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Officer on 30 July 2008. unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The terms of the service agreement with Trevor Matthews provide that 12 months notice of termination must be given by The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the Company or 6 months notice by Mr Matthews.
However, records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the any such notice by either the Company or Mr Matthews must financial position of the parent company and enable them to not expire before 30 July 2010, being the second anniversary of ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies his date of appointment.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Save for the above disclosures, the directors consider that the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Company has throughout 2008 and to date applied the principles and met the requirements of the Combined Code.
The Board The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of is committed to the principles of corporate governance and the the corporate and financial information included on the Companys code of best practice contained in the Combined Code.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES in other jurisdictions.
IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors The Board believes that the controls in place during 2008 and Report and group and parent company financial statements, to date have been appropriate to the needs of the Group.
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Nevertheless, it continues to be committed to the highest standards of governance and business conduct and will ensure Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent that those controls continue to develop in line with the company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that requirements of the business, the FSA and leading practice.
law, they have elected to prepare group financial statements In particular, in the forthcoming year, the Board will keep under in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards review the appropriateness and effectiveness of the new IFRS as adopted by the EU and the applicable law and have governance and decision-making structure.
elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law On behalf of the Board UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Gordon Ellis The group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as Company Secretary adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the 26 March 2009 performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 61
