Corporate Governance Statement In this section of our Annual Report and Accounts, we explain the Statement about applying the principles of key elements of the Group's corporate governance structure.
the Code The directors of Hargreaves Lansdown plc are committed to high The Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the standards of corporate governance and the Company is committed Code, including both the main principles and the supporting to the principles of corporate governance contained in the principles, by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further Combined Code on Corporate Governance that was issued in explanation of how the principles and supporting principles have 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code for which been applied is set out below and in the directors remuneration the Board is accountable to shareholders.
report and Audit Committee report.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code DIRECTORS During the year ended 30 June 2008, Hargreaves Lansdown plc Board of directors has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance with As at 30 June 2008, the Board of Hargreaves Lansdown comprised the following three exceptions: of 3 executive members and 3 independent non-executive directors.
All of the directors bring strong judgement to Board 1.
Composition of the Board complied from 1 February 2008 deliberations.
The Board is of sufficient size and diversity that the balance of skills and experience is considered to be appropriate for Prior to 1 February 2008, the Board had five directors of which the requirements of the business.
two were independent non-executive directors.
A rebalancing of the Board took place when Jonathan Davis was appointed as an The Chairman has primary responsibility for running the Board.
Since that date, the The Chief Executive, Peter Hargreaves, has executive Company has met the Code requirement for FTSE 350 companies responsibilities for the operations, results and strategic that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should development of the Group.
Clear divisions of accountability and comprise independent non-executive directors.
responsibility exist and operate effectively for these positions.
Constitution of Remuneration and Audit Committee complied The Board requires all non-executive directors to be independent from 1 February 2008 in their judgement and free from any business or other relationship that could interfere with the exercise of objective judgement.
The The Code requires that Audit and Remuneration Committee non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Groups members should be independent non-executive directors and that share option or other incentive schemes.
they should be in the majority on the Nomination Committee.
Prior to 1 February 2008, Stephen Lansdown was a member of Biographies for the board of directors, including details of any other these committees.
Stephen is an executive director and so is not significant directorships or appointments, are set out on page 17. independent, and it is recognised that this did not meet Code requirements.
Upon the appointment of Jonathan Davis to the Role of the Board Board as a third independent non-executive director, he replaced Stephen Lansdown as a member of the Audit, Nomination and The Board determines the strategic direction of the Group and Remuneration committees and since that date the Company has reviews operating, financial and risk performance.
It is the decisionmet this requirement of the Code.
making body for all other matters deemed material to the Group in strategic, financial and reputational terms.
Independence of the Chairman on appointment directors constructively challenge the management team and supplement the executive directors' management expertise with a The Chairman does not meet the independence criteria set out in diversity of business skills and experience.
the Code since he is an executive director of the Company.
However the Directors consider that the composition of the Board The Board and its Committees meet regularly.
Formal minutes or is appropriate having regard to the successful development of the reports of each of these meetings are circulated to all directors.
Group to date, the size of the Group, the independence and integrity of the Directors and the experience and skills of the The Board has delegated full authority to the Executive Board.
Committee subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the full Board.
There is a formal schedule of those Details of how Hargreaves Lansdown complied with the Code are matters reserved to the Board, which includes: summarised in this statement.
approval of corporate strategies and objectives: approval of interim and final financial results and payment of dividends: Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 23 Corporate Governance Statement - continued the appointment of directors: involve the Nomination Committee interviewing suitable approval of major capital expenditure: candidates who are proposed by either existing Board members or approval of annual budgets and medium term plans: by an external search company.
Careful consideration will be given approval of significant changes in the Group structure and to ensure appointees have enough time available to devote to the product range.
role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board will be maintained.
When the Committee has found a The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Committee will make a Group to the Group Chief Executive, who is supported by the proposal to the whole Board and the appointment is the executive directors and senior executives.
The Group Chief responsibility of the whole Board following recommendation from Executive and executive directors of the Group are responsible to the Committee.
the Board for developing strategy and the profitability and overall performance of the Group.
All directors have to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years if they wish to continue serving and are considered by Board responsibilities the Board to be eligible.
The Board meets a minimum of four times each financial year to Jonathan Davis was recruited as a non-executive director during discuss matters such as current performance, long term planning, the year.
Jonathan was known previously to the Board, who material capital commitments and risk management.
During the believe that his skills and experience are a valuable addition to its intervening months, meetings of the Executive Committee are existing profile.
As such, it was not necessary to use an external held and minutes from the meetings are circulated to the Board.
search consultancy or open advertising for recruitment of a third non-executive director.
All directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in conducting their duties.
Remuneration Committee For all new directors the Chairman is responsible for preparing and The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the framework or implementing a personalised induction programme including broad policy for the fair remuneration of the Executive Directors of guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a the Group as well as their performance management.
These will director of the Company.
Every director has access to appropriate be determined with due regard to the interests of the Company training as required subsequent to appointment.
The need for and the Shareholders.
It monitors the levels and structure of director training is regularly assessed.
remuneration for senior management and seeks to ensure that they are designed to attract, retain and motivate the Executive Directors Board committees needed to run the Company successfully.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice during each financial year, and met There are a number of Committees of the Board to which various four times during the current year.
The Committee is chaired by matters are delegated.
The Committees all have formal Terms of Jonathan Bloomer and its other members at 30 June 2008 were Reference that have been approved by the Board, and performance Michael Evans and Jonathan Davis.
The responsibilities of the of the Committees are assessed annually by the Board.
Terms of Remuneration Committee and an explanation of how it applies the reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee directors remuneration principles of the Combined Code, are set are available on the Groups website www.
Details are out in the directors remuneration report.
set out below: Audit Committee The Nomination Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board discharging its responsibilities for financial reporting including the appointments, re-election and succession of directors and the integrity of the annual and interim reports, preliminary results and Chairman.
It is responsible for making recommendations to the any other formal announcements relating to financial performance, Board concerning the composition of the Board including risk reporting and reviewing the Companys internal corporate proposed appointees to the Board, whether to fill any vacancies control.
The Audit Committees primary responsibilities are to that may arise or to change the number of Board members.
The review the financial statements, to review the Groups internal Committee is chaired by Jonathan Bloomer and its members at 30 control and risk management systems, to consider the appointment June 2008 were Michael Evans and Jonathan Davis.
The of the external auditors, their independence and reports to the Company Secretary may also attend in her capacity as Secretary of Committee, as well as to review the programme of Internal Audit.
The Nomination Committee meets at least once The Committee is chaired by Jonathan Bloomer and its other each year.
The Committee met four times during the year.
members at 30 June 2008 were Michael Evans and Jonathan Davis.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times each year.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
This process will The Committee met four times during this financial year.
On each Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 24 Corporate Governance Statement - continued occasion the Head of Internal Audit, Group Compliance Director, Executive Committee Group Accounting Director and Group Finance Director were invited to attend.
The external auditors attended all of the The Board has delegated full authority to the Executive meetings.
In particular the Executive Committee It is a specific responsibility of the Audit Committee to ensure that is responsible to the Chief Executive for developing and an appropriate relationship is maintained between the Company monitoring every aspect of the Group businesses on a continuing and its auditors.
The Company has a policy of controlling the basis, for developing and implementing business strategy as agreed provision of non-audit services by the external auditors in order to by the Board and ensuring that day to day operations are maintain their independence and ensure that their objectivity and conducted in accordance with the relevant regulatory and statutory independence are safeguarded.
Where non-audit fees are expected requirements.
to be significant, either individually or cumulatively, the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required.
The Executive Committee, established in March 2007, is chaired The Committee has scrutinised the internal procedures of Deloitte by Stephen Lansdown following his appointment replacing and satisfied itself that the independence and objectivity of the Theresa Barry as chairman, and Peter Hargreaves in his absence, auditors are not affected by the non-audit work undertaken.
The and also comprises Nigel Bence, Andrew Christian and Tracey Company has an internal audit function and the relationship Taylor.
Lee Gardhouse, Alex Davies, Peter Hargreaves, Stephen between it and the external auditors is routinely assessed at Lansdown and Martin Mulligan were also appointed to the Committee meetings.
The Company has developed a whistle Committee during 2008.
Adam Norris was a member of the blowing arrangement to deal with complaints from employees Committee until March 2008.
The Executive Committee meets at about any accounting or financial management impropriety or least quarterly but more frequently when required, and met four other questionable practices or conduct should they arise.
times during the current financial year.
Attendance at meetings during the financial year by members of each committee Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Current directors Peter Hargreaves 5 5 - - - 2 2 Stephen Lansdown 5 5 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Martin Mulligan 4 5 - - - 2 2 Jonathan Bloomer 4 5 3 4 3 4 3 4 - Michael Evans 5 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 - Jonathan Davis 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 - Executive Committee Theresa Barry ---- 4 4 Nigel Bence ---- 4 4 Andrew Christian ---- 4 4 Adam Norris ---- 3 3 Tracey Taylor ---- 4 4 Lee Gardhouse ---- 2 2 Alex Davies ---- 2 2 Where board meetings have been held for a specific purpose to discuss matters at short notice, all board members are sent papers and given the opportunity to comment by telephone or email if they are unable to attend at short notice.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 25 Corporate Governance Statement - continued Training Internal control and risk management The Groups overall objective is to maintain and enhance professional The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of standards for all its employees.
It is particularly necessary to maintain internal control and risk management and for reviewing its these standards for all staff who fall under the scope of the Financial effectiveness.
The directors are required to establish systems for the Services Authority Training and Competence rules.
All directors and control of the conduct of the business and to conduct the business staff under the scope of these rules are required to perform a certain with prudence and integrity.
In discharging this responsibility, the number of hours of development training during a year.
This Board confirms that it has established the procedures necessary to development training is divided into structured and unstructured time.
apply the Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
These procedures have been New directors are given an induction process, which includes time in place since Admission to trading on the main market of the with several of the senior managers and executives in a number of London Stock Exchange and will be regularly reviewed by the business areas, demonstrations of systems and visits to the offices Board.
Business performance is managed closely and the Board and the Management have established processes, as part of the Performance evaluation normal good management of the business, to monitor: Individual appraisal of each directors performance is undertakenstrategic plan achievement, through a regular review of either by the Chief Executive or Chairman each year and involves progress towards strategic objectives: meetings with each director on a one-to one basis.
The nonexecutive directors, led by the senior independent director, carryfinancial performance, within a comprehensive financial out an appraisal of the performance of the Chairman.
planning and accounting framework, including forecasting, financial reporting, reviewing variances against plan and taking Other information appropriate management action: and Any director has access to the advice and services of the Companyrisk management processes, which accord with the Turnbull Secretary and may seek independent professional advice, if guidance and are supported by reports from the Head of necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary is Internal Audit that the significant risks faced by the Company responsible to the Board for ensuring Board procedures are are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, followed.
Any removal or appointment of the Company Secretary having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
The key features of the system of business control and risk RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS assessment established by the Board include: Shareholder relationsa well defined management structure with clear accountabilities and delegations: The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with shareholders and has a programme of communication withthe Group Audit Committee, the Executive Committee, and a shareholders through interim and annual reports, the AGM and system of executive management risk committees, which the Investor Relations section of the corporate website at www.
Henhance and support the oversight role of the Board: L. co. uk.
It is intended that all directors will attend each AGM and shareholders will be given the opportunity to participate by askinga planning process that delivers detailed annual financial questions at the AGM on 21 November 2008.
In addition, the forecasts and targets for Board approval: Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director intend to have dialogue with individual institutional shareholders in order tomanagement information systems which enable the Board to develop an understanding of their views which can be fed back to receive comprehensive monthly analysis of financial and the Board.
General presentations are also given to analysts and business performance: investors covering the annual and interim results.
an Internal Audit function which reports to the Audit ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Committee on the effectiveness of key internal controls in relation to these major risks: Going concern a Compliance function to manage relationships with the The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as Group's key regulators and to identify major compliance and the directors are satisfied that, at the time of approving the financial regulatory risks: statements, the Group has the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
a Money Laundering Reporting Officer and anti-money Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 26 Corporate Governance Statement - continued laundering procedures, and controls including training Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board has programmes for all staff: conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year ended 30 June 2008.
The system of a Financial Crime and Risk Management Group, chaired by the internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the Money Laundering Reporting Officer, which considers the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable potential exposure of the Group to loss through financial crime assurance as to the effectiveness of the safeguards protecting the and the controls in place to mitigate the risk of such loss: and business against the risk of material error, loss or fraud.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate a Group Internal Control Policy requiring all senior managers that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is to identify major risks and monitor the effectiveness of internal not aware of any change to this status up to the approval of this controls applied throughout the business.
The Group's Annual Report.
Internal Audit Department carries out reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls operated by each department Model Code or business unit as part of the audit of that department or unit.
The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the In addition, the Audit Committee receives reports from the Head FSA Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
of Internal Audit and Risk on the work carried out under the annual internal audit plan, and also reports from the external Audit Committee and auditors auditors.
The Audit Committee report on the following pages provides The Board has delegated oversight of the Group's Internal Control details of the role and activities of the Committee and its Policy to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee received relationship with the internal and external auditors.
reports on the current operation of internal controls in relation to key and emerging risks, and the Audit Committee carried out an Stephen Lansdown overall review of the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal Chairman control for the year to 30 June 2008 and the period to the date of 24 September 2008 this report, on behalf of the Board.
The Board has delegated oversight of the Groups risk management policies and procedures to the Executive Committee.
There has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of this report a process of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
A summary of the significant risks is provided within the Operating and Financial Review.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
The Board receives minutes and reports from the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee.
These identify any significant issues relating to the adequacy of the Group's system of internal control and to the risk management policies and procedures across the full range of risks to which the Group is exposed, and how they are being controlled.
The Board, the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee receive reports from the Head of Internal Audit identifying the effectiveness of internal controls together with specific reports on any major issues.
The majority of the activities of the Group, including the systems of business control, are subject to supervision by the Financial Services Authority.
The Group is required on a regular basis to submit detailed prudential and statistical returns covering all areas of its business and meets regularly with its supervisors, conducting the relationship in an open and constructive manner.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 27
