Audit Committee Report Summary of the role of the Audit Committee independent non-executive directors following the appointment of Jonathan Davis as a third non-executive director on 1 February The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board.
The Audit 2008, replacing Stephen Lansdown as a member of the Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by the Committee.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
The Audit Committee structure requires the inclusion of one financially qualified member as recognised by the Consultative The Audit Committee is responsible for: Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
Currently the Audit Committee Chairman fulfils this requirement.
All Audit monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Committee members are expected to be financially literate.
Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit reporting judgements contained therein: Committee members and ongoing training to enable all of the reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and, unless Committee members to carry out their duties.
The induction expressly addressed by the Board itself, the Groups internal programme covers the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of control and risk management systems: reference and expected time commitment by members: and an monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups overview of the Groups business, including the main business and internal audit function: financial dynamics and risks.
New Committee members also meet making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be some of the Groups staff.
Ongoing training includes attendance put to the shareholders for their approval in general meetings, at formal conferences, internal company seminars and briefings by in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and the external advisors.
approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: The Board expects the Audit Committee members to have an reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence understanding of: and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatorythe principles of, contents of, and developments in financial requirements: and reporting including the applicable accounting standards and developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of statements of recommended practice: the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking intokey aspects of the Groups operations including corporate account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit policies, Group financing, products and systems of internal services by the external audit firm.
control: matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the and key figures: Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers thatthe principles of, and developments in, company law, sectoraction or improvement is needed, and make recommendations as specific laws and other relevant corporate legislation: to the steps to be taken.
the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: the regulatory framework for the Groups businesses: and Composition of the Audit  and social responsibility best practices.
The members of the Audit Committee are: Meetings Name Date of Qualification appointment The Audit Committee is required to meet at least three times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial Jonathan Bloomer 18 September 2006 Chartered calendar.
The agenda is predominantly cyclical and is therefore accountant approved by the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his or her fellow members.
Each Audit Committee member has the right to Michael Evans 1 September 2006 Actuary require reports on matters of interest in addition to the cyclical items.
Jonathan Davis 1 February 2008 The Audit Committee invites the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Accounting Director, Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the Head of Internal Audit, Group Compliance Director and senior Committee at regular intervals and any recommendations for new representatives of the external auditors to attend all of its meetings appointments are made to the Nomination Committee for onward in full, although it reserves the right to request any of these recommendation to the Board.
Appointments are for a period of individuals to withdraw.
Other senior management are invited to three years and are extendable by no more than two additional present such reports as are required for the Committee to three year periods.
The Committee has comprised of three discharge its duties.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 28 Audit Committee - continued Overview of the actions taken by the Audit To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: Committee to discharge its duties the changes in key external audit staff in the external auditors Since 1 July 2007 the Audit Committee has: plan for the current year: the arrangements for day to day management of the audit reviewed the financial statements in the 2007 reports and relationship: accounts and the interim report issued in January 2008.
Asconfirmation that no external audit staff are employed by the part of this review the Committee received a report from the Group: external auditors on their audit of the annual reports anda report from the external auditors describing their accounts and review of the interim report: arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of considered the output from the Group-wide process used to interest: and identify, evaluate and mitigate risks:the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and external auditors, in addition to their case by case approval of disclosures made in the annual report and accounts on this the position of non-audit services by the external auditors.
matter: reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit undertaken by the auditors: Committee reviewed: considered a report from the external auditors on their review of the effectiveness of controls across the Group and received athe external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and report on management action taken in response to work variations from the plan: undertaken by the auditors in 2007:the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and audit of the 2008 accounts and interim report:the content of the external auditors Internal Control Report.
reviewed its own effectiveness: undertaken an evaluation of the performance of the Internal As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities Audit function: outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the agreed a programme of work for the Companys Internal Audit Board that the external auditors are re-appointed.
function: undertaken an evaluation of the performance of the external Internal Audit function auditors: received reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the work The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its undertaken by Internal Audit and management responses to responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans proposals made in the audit reports issued by the function of the Internal Audit department.
To fulfil these duties, the during the year: and Committee reviewed: received presentations on the Groups treasury and tax functions.
Internal Audits terms of reference, reporting lines and access to the Audit Committee and all members of the Board: External auditorsInternal Audits plans and its achievement of the planned activity: The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, the results of key audits and other significant findings, the implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external adequacy of managements response and the timeliness of audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring resolution: the independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical andthe statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and experience regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, and day to day and timeliness of reporting: and responsibility to the Group Accounting Director.
The policy statesthe level and nature of non-audit activity performed by Internal that the external auditors are jointly responsible to the Board and Audit.
the Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is the primary contact.
The Groups Whistleblowing Policy contains arrangements for the Head of Internal Audit to receive, in confidence, complaints on The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related non-audit services which the external auditors will and will not be matters for reporting to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
allowed to provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis levels and Audit Committee Chairman approval.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 29 Audit Committee - continued Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Approval This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: Michael Evans Member of the Audit Committee 24 September 2008 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 30
