Corporate Sustainability Committee established by Group Management Office management committees, for application across The role of the Corporate Sustainability Committee the whole of HSBC.
These are supplemented by and its membership are set out on page 312. operating standards set by functional and local management as required for the type of business Internal control and geographical location of each subsidiary.
The Directors are responsible for internal control in Systems and procedures are in place in HSBC to HSBC and for reviewing its effectiveness.
identify, control and report on the major risks Procedures have been designed for safeguarding including credit, changes in the market prices of assets against unauthorised use or disposition: for financial instruments, liquidity, operational maintaining proper accounting records: and for the error, breaches of law or regulations, reliability of financial information used within the unauthorised activities, information risk, business or for publication.
Such procedures are security and fraud.
Exposure to these risks is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of monitored by risk management committees, failure to achieve business objectives and can only asset and liability committees and executive provide reasonable and not absolute assurance committees in subsidiaries and, for HSBC as a against material misstatement, errors, losses or fraud.
whole, by the Group Management Board.
A risk The procedures also enable HSBC Holdings to management meeting of the Group Management discharge its obligations under the Handbook of Board, chaired by the Group Finance Director, is Rules and Guidance issued by the Financial Services held monthly to address asset, liability and risk Authority, HSBCs lead regulator.
management issues, its minutes are submitted to the Group Audit Committee and to the Board of The key procedures that the Directors have Directors.
The Group Operational Risk and established are designed to provide effective internal Control Committee reviews the implementation control within HSBC and accord with the Internal of HSBCs management framework for Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the operational risk and internal control.
Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Such procedures for the ongoing A Disclosure Committee has been established to identification, evaluation and management of the review material disclosures made by HSBC significant risks faced by HSBC have been in place Holdings for any errors, misstatements or throughout the year and up to 2 March 2009, the date omissions.
The membership of the Disclosure of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts Committee, which is chaired by the Group 2008.
In the case of companies acquired during the Company Secretary, includes the heads of the year, the internal controls in place are being Finance, Legal, Risk, Compliance, Corporate reviewed against HSBCs benchmarks and Communications, Investor Relations and integrated into HSBCs processes.
Internal Audit functions and representatives from the principal regions, customer groups and HSBCs key internal control procedures include global businesses.
the following: Processes are in place to identify new risks from Authority to operate the various subsidiaries and changes in market conditions and practices or responsibilities for financial performance customer behaviours which could expose HSBC against plans and for capital expenditure are to heightened risk of loss or reputational delegated to their respective chief executive damage.
During 2008, attention was directed officers within limits set by the Board of towards managing the impact on the Group of Directors of HSBC Holdings.
Delegation of market volatilities and illiquidity: continued authority from the Board to individuals requires deterioration in the US personal financial those individuals to maintain a clear and services markets: Group exposure to various appropriate apportionment of significant parts of the financial sector e. g. asset backed responsibilities and to oversee the establishment securities including mortgage-backed securities and maintenance of systems of control and collateralised debt obligations, monoline appropriate to the business.
The appointment of insurers, leveraged finance and money market executives to the most senior positions within funds: and the impact of government HSBC requires the approval of the Board of interventions to address the under-capitalisation Directors of HSBC Holdings.
and funding difficulties of certain financial Functional, operating, financial reporting and institutions.
certain management reporting standards are 299 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Internal control Directors interests Periodic strategic plans are prepared for key The establishment and maintenance of customer groups, global product groups, support appropriate systems of internal control is functions and certain geographies within the primarily the responsibility of business framework of the Group Strategic Roadmap.
The internal audit function, which Rolling operating plans, informed by detailed is centrally controlled, monitors the analysis of risk appetite, are prepared and effectiveness of internal control structures adopted by all major HSBC operating across the whole of HSBC focussing on the companies and set out the key business areas of greatest risk to HSBC as determined initiatives and the likely financial effects of using a risk-based approach.
The head of this those initiatives.
function reports to the Group Chairman and the Group Audit Committee.
Governance and oversight arrangements are in place to ensure that risk analytical models are fit Management is responsible for ensuring that for purpose, used accordingly and recommendations made by the internal audit complemented by a variety of model-specific function are implemented within an appropriate and enterprise-wide stress tests that evaluate the and agreed timetable.
Confirmation to this effect impact of severe yet plausible events and other must be provided to internal audit.
Management unusual circumstances not fully captured by must also confirm annually to internal audit that quantitative models.
offices under their control have taken or are in the process of taking the appropriate actions to Centralised functional control is exercised over deal with all significant recommendations made all computer system developments and by external auditors in management letters or by operations.
Common systems are employed for regulators following regulatory inspections.
similar business processes wherever practicable.
Credit and market risks are measured and The Group Audit Committee has kept under reported on in subsidiaries and aggregated for review the effectiveness of this system of internal review of risk concentrations on a Group-wide control and has reported regularly to the Board of basis.
The key processes used by the Committee in carrying out its reviews include: regular business Functional management in Group Management and operational risk assessments: regular reports Office is responsible for setting policies, from the heads of key risk functions including procedures and standards in the following areas Internal Audit and Compliance: the production of risk: credit: market: liquidity: operational: annually of reviews of the internal control IT: fraud: business continuity: security: framework applied at Group Management Office information: insurance: accounting: tax: legal and major operating subsidiary level measured and regulatory compliance: fiduciary: human against HSBC benchmarks, which cover all internal resources: reputational: sustainability and controls, both financial and non-financial: semipurchasing.
Authorities to enter into credit and annual confirmations from chief executives of market risk exposures are delegated with limits principal subsidiary companies as to whether there to line management of Group companies.
The have been any material losses, contingencies or concurrence of Group Management Office is uncertainties caused by weaknesses in internal required, however, to credit proposals with controls: internal audit reports: external audit specified high risk characteristics.
reports: prudential reviews: and regulatory reports.
Policies to guide subsidiary companies and The Group Audit Committee has reviewed a Risk management at all levels in the conduct of Map of the status of key risk areas which impact the business to safeguard the Groups reputation are Group and has considered the mitigating actions put established by the Board of HSBC Holdings and in place.
In addition, where unexpected losses have the Group Management Board, subsidiary arisen or where incidents have occurred which company boards, board committees or senior indicate gaps in the control framework or in management.
Reputational risks can arise from adherence to Group policies, the Group Audit environmental, social or governance issues, or Committee has reviewed special reports, prepared at as a consequence of operational risk events.
As a the instigation of management, which analyse the banking group, HSBCs good reputation cause of the issue, the lessons learned and the actions depends upon the way in which it conducts its proposed by management to address the issue.
business but it can also be affected by the way in The Directors, through the Group Audit which clients, to which it provides financial Committee, have conducted an annual review of the services, conduct their business.
effectiveness of HSBCs system of internal control 300
