HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Conflicts of interest Corporate governance should they have concerns which contact through the Corporate governance codes normal channels of Group Chairman, Group Chief HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate Executive, Group Finance Director or other governance.
HSBC Holdings has complied executives has failed to resolve or for which such throughout the year with the applicable code contact would be inappropriate.
Invitations to meet provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate S M Robertson prior to his appointment as senior Governance issued by the Financial Reporting independent non-executive Director were extended Council and the Code on Corporate Governance to the Groups largest shareholders.
The senior Practices in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the independent non-executive Director may be Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of contacted through the Group Company Secretary Hong Kong Limited.
The Board of HSBC Holdings has adopted a Conflicts of interest, indemnification of code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group Directors, relevant audit information and securities by Directors that complies with The Model contracts of significance Code in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and with The Model Code for Securities One of the amendments to HSBC Holdings Articles Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers Hong of Association approved by shareholders at the 2008 Kong Model Code set out in the Rules Governing Annual General Meeting gave the Board authority, the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of with effect from 1 October 2008, to approve Hong Kong Limited, save that The Stock Exchange Directors conflicts and potential conflicts of of Hong Kong Limited has granted certain waivers interest.
The Board has adopted a policy and from strict compliance with the Hong Kong Model procedures for the approval of Directors conflicts or Code, primarily to take into account accepted potential conflicts of interest.
The Boards powers to practices in the UK, particularly in respect of authorise conflicts are operating effectively and the employee share plans.
Following a specific enquiry, procedures are being followed.
A review of each Director has confirmed he or she has complied situational conflicts which have been authorised, with the code of conduct for transactions in HSBC including the terms of authorisation, will be Group securities throughout the year.
The Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings Differences in HSBC Holdings New York provide that Directors are entitled to be indemnified Stock Exchange corporate governance out of the assets of the Company against claims from practices third parties in respect of certain liabilities arising in Under the NYSEs corporate governance rules for connection with the performance of their functions, listed companies and the applicable rules of the SEC, in accordance with the provisions of the UK as a NYSE-listed foreign private issuer, HSBC Companies Act 2006.
Such indemnity provisions Holdings must disclose any significant ways in have been in place during the financial year but have which its corporate governance practices differ from not been utilised by the Directors.
those followed by US companies subject to NYSE Each person who is a Director at the date of listing standards.
HSBC Holdings believes the approval of this report confirms that so far as the following to be the significant differences between Director is aware, there is no relevant audit its corporate governance practices and NYSE information of which the Companys auditor is corporate governance rules applicable to US unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that companies.
he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order US companies listed on the NYSE are required to make himself or herself aware of any relevant to adopt and disclose corporate governance audit information and to establish that the guidelines.
The Listing Rules of the UK Financial Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This Services Authority require each listed company confirmation is given pursuant to section 234ZA of incorporated in the UK to include in its Annual the UK Companies Act 1985 and should be Report and Accounts a narrative statement of how it interpreted in accordance therewith and subject to has applied the principles of the Combined Code and the provisions thereof.
a statement as to whether or not it has complied with None of the Directors had, during the year or at the code provisions of the Combined Code the end of the year, a material interest, directly or throughout the accounting period covered by the indirectly, in any contract of significance with HSBC Annual Report and Accounts.
A company that has Holdings or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
not complied with the Code provisions, or complied 294 with only some of the Code provisions or in the executive officers.
In addition to the Group Business case of provisions whose requirements are of a Principles and Values, which apply to the employees continuing nature complied for only part of an of all HSBC companies, pursuant to the accounting period covered by the report, must requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act the Board of specify the Code provisions with which it has not HSBC Holdings has adopted a Code of Ethics complied, and where relevant for what part of the applicable to the Group Chairman and the Group reporting period such non-compliance continued, Chief Executive, as the principal executive officers, and give reasons for any non-compliance.
As stated and to the Group Finance Director and Group Chief above, HSBC Holdings complied throughout 2008 Accounting Officer.
HSBC Holdings Code of Ethics with the applicable code provisions of the Combined is available on www.
com codeofethics or from Code.
The Combined Code does not require HSBC the Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, Holdings to disclose the full range of corporate London E14 5HQ.
If the Board amends or waives governance guidelines with which it complies.
the provisions of the Code of Ethics, details of the amendment or waiver will appear at the same Under NYSE standards, companies are required website address.
During 2008, HSBC Holdings made to have a nominating corporate governance no amendments to its Code of Ethics and granted no committee, composed entirely of independent waivers from its provisions.
In addition to identifying individuals Principles and Values are available on qualified to become Board members, this committee www.
must develop and recommend to the Board a set of corporate governance principles.
HSBCs Under NYSE listing rules applicable to US Nomination Committee complies with the Combined companies, independent directors must comprise a Code, which requires a majority of members to be majority of the Board of directors.
All four members of the Committee are thirds of HSBC Holdings Directors are independent.
The Under the Combined Code the HSBC Holdings Committees terms of reference do not require the Board determines whether a Director is independent Committee to develop and recommend corporate in character and judgement and whether there are governance principles for HSBC Holdings.
As stated relationships or circumstances which are likely to above, HSBC Holdings is subject to the corporate affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors governance principles of the Combined Code.
Under the NYSE rules a director cannot Pursuant to NYSE listing standards, nonqualify as independent unless the board affirmatively management directors must meet on a regular basis determines that the director has no material without management present and independent relationship with the listed company: in addition the directors must meet separately at least once per year.
NYSE rules prescribe a list of circumstances in During 2008, HSBC Holdings non-executive which a director cannot be independent.
The Directors met twice as a group with the Group Combined Code requires a companys board to Chairman, but without other executive Directors assess director independence by affirmatively present, and met once as a group without the Group concluding that the director is independent of Chairman or other executive Directors present.
management and free from any business or other HSBC Holdings practice, in this regard, complies relationship that could materially interfere with the with the Combined Code.
In accordance with the requirements of the Lastly, a chief executive officer of a US Combined Code, HSBC Holdings discloses in its company listed on the NYSE must annually certify annual report how the Board, its committees and the that he or she is not aware of any violation by the Directors are evaluated on page 293 and it provides company of NYSE corporate governance standards.
extensive information regarding Directors In accordance with NYSE listing rules applicable to compensation in the Directors Remuneration Report foreign private issuers, HSBC Holdings Group on pages 315 to 328.
The terms of reference of Chief Executive is not required to provide the NYSE HSBC Holdings Audit, Nomination and with this annual compliance certification.
However, Remuneration Committees are available at in accordance with rules applicable to both US www.
companies and foreign private issuers, the Group Chief Executive is required promptly to notify the NYSE listing standards require US companies NYSE in writing after any executive officer becomes to adopt a code of business conduct and ethics for aware of any material non-compliance with the directors, officers and employees, and promptly NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to disclose any waivers of the code for directors or HSBC Holdings.
