Corporate governance statement British American Tobacco has long been committed to Directors maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
Our The Company currently has a Board of 11 Directors: the corporate governance framework is directed towards achieving Chairman, 3 Executive Directors the Chief Executive, the our business objectives in a manner which is responsible and Chief Operating Officer and the Finance Director and in accordance with high standards of honesty, transparency 7 Non-Executive Directors.
They are listed in the Directors and accountability.
report and their details appear on the Board of Directors page.
These principles are reflected in our Standards of Business Nicandro Durante was appointed to the Board as Chief Conduct, which have been in place for many years.
They Operating Officer on 1 January 2008.
Paul Rayner ceased were expanded and updated with effect from 1 January 2008 to be Finance Director with effect from the conclusion of the and continue to be kept under review in order to ensure that Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2008.
Ben Stevens was they remain at the forefront of best business practice.
Every appointed to the Board with effect from 3 March 2008 and Group company and every employee worldwide is expected succeeded Paul Rayner as Finance Director on 30 April 2008. to live up to them and guidance on them is communicated Kenneth Clarke Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent regularly throughout the Group, including through training Director also retired as a Director at the conclusion of the and awareness programmes.
In addition, the principles set Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2008.
The position of out within our Statement of Business Principles are designed Deputy Chairman ceased on that date and Sir Nicholas Scheele to help meet the expectations placed on us by our various assumed the role of Senior Independent Director on 1 May 2008. stakeholders.
Both documents are available from the Thys Visser, a Non-Executive Director since 2001, will retire Company Secretary and on www.
from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General The principal governance rules applying to UK companies Meeting on 30 April 2009. listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the Meetings of the Board Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by The Board held 10 meetings in 2008, 7 of which were the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code.
scheduled and 3 of which were called at short notice to An updated version of the Code was published in June 2008 address additional business, including appointments to the and applies to reporting years beginning on or after 29 June Management Board, the Tekel acquisition in Turkey and the 2008.
While, in preparing this statement, we have taken secondary listing on the JSE in South Africa.
The Board is account of the updated Code, our formal obligation for 2008 scheduled to hold 7 meetings in 2009. is to report by reference to the June 2006 version of the Code.
Accordingly, references in this statement are to the 2006 Among the key matters on which the Board alone may version of the Code.
The Code is published by the Financial make decisions are the Groups business strategy, its budget, Reporting Council and is available from its website dividends and major corporate activities.
It is also responsible www.
for reviewing the Companys internal controls and governance system and for approving the Standards of Business Conduct As required by the Code, this statement reports on how the and other Group policies.
In addition, the Board annually: Codes principles are applied by the Company and provides our formal report on compliance with the Codes provisions.
approves the Annual Report, recommends the final dividend The Groups statement on going concern as required by the and agrees the agenda for the Annual General Meeting: Code, together with those matters required in respect of reviews the Companys periodic financial results and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, are included in the declares an interim dividend: Directors report.
agrees succession plans and evaluates the Boards The Board performance over the preceding year: and The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for the success of the Group and for its overall strategic direction, agrees the 2 year budget.
its values and its governance.
It provides the leadership The agenda for Board meetings is set by the Chairman in necessary to enable the Groups business objectives to be met consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
within the framework of the internal controls described below, In addition to the Company Secretary, the General Counsel to while also ensuring that the Companys obligations to its the Company ordinarily attends all meetings of the Board.
shareholders and others are met.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 82 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet, if the figure in brackets indicates the number of meetings held required, prior to meetings of the Board without the Executive during their period of tenure on the Board or Committee.
All Directors present and also meet annually, led by the Senior Directors attended the Annual General Meeting in April 2008.
Independent Director, without the Chairman present.
Board Audit Nominations Remuneration CSR Number held 10 5 3 4 2 All Directors are aware of their responsibility to take decisions objectively which promote the success of the Company for the Number attended benefit of its members.
The Chairman will always seek to obtain J P du Plessis 10 3 1 consensus at Board meetings but, in exceptional circumstances, K H Clarke 4 4 1 2 2 2 3 3 1 1 decisions will be taken by majority.
If any Director has concerns P N Adams 10 1 about the running of the Company or a proposed action P A Rayner 3 4 1 which cannot be resolved, such concerns will be recorded J B Stevens 7 8 in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2008.
N Durante 9 3 R E Lerwill 10 5 3 4 1 1 Management Board 2 A M Llopis 9 3 3 3 4 2 The Board delegates to the Management Board responsibility 3 C Morin-Postel 10 5 3 4 1 1 for overseeing the implementation by the Groups operating 3 A Ruys 10 5 3 4 1 1 subsidiaries of the policies and strategy which it sets, and Sir Nicholas Scheele 9 5 3 4 2 for creating the conditions for their successful day-to-day 2 K fide Segundo 10 3 3 3 4 2 operation.
The Management Board is chaired by the Chief M H Visser 9 3 2 Executive and its other members are the Finance Director, the Indicates not a member of that Committee the Chairman and Executive Directors Chief Operating Officer and the 10 senior Group executives, attend meetings of the Board Committees, as appropriate, at the invitation of the Committee Chairmen.
whose names appear on the Management Board page.
It held Indicates absence from a meeting called at short notice.
10 meetings in 2008 and is scheduled to hold 9 meetings in Notes: 2009.
Members of the Management Board are also invited to 1 Kenneth Clarke and Paul Rayner retired from the Board on 30 April 2008: Ben Stevens was appointed to the Board with effect from 3 March 2008. attend meetings of the Board from time to time, in particular 2 Ana Maria Llopis and Karen fide Segundo stood down from the Audit Committee when the Groups future strategy and 2 year budget are with effect from 1 October 2008. under discussion.
3 Robert Lerwill, Christine Morin-Postel and Anthony Ruys stood down from the CSR Committee with effect from 1 October 2008.
Board Committees The Board has established 4 principal Board Committees, Chairman and Chief Executive to which it has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
They The Chairman and Chief Executive are responsible for the are the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee, the profitable operation of the Group.
Their roles are separate, Remuneration Committee and the Corporate Social Responsibility with each having distinct and clearly defined responsibilities.
Each has its own clear terms of reference, The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring which are available from the Company Secretary and on its effectiveness and setting its agenda, and for facilitating the www.
The roles and membership of these Committees productive contribution of both Executive and Non-Executive are described in more detail where appropriate below.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the interests With effect from 1 October 2008, membership of the Audit of the Companys shareholders are safeguarded and that there and CSR Committees was split between the Non-Executive is effective communication with the Companys shareholders.
Directors on the basis that smaller Committees were considered The Chairman is accountable to the Board for leading the likely to promote more effective debate.
Sir Nicholas direction of the Groups corporate and financial strategy and Scheele currently remains a member of both Committees.
for the overall supervision of the Groups policies governing All Non-Executive Directors continue to serve on both the the conduct of its business.
Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The Chief Executive provides leadership to the Group to Scheduled Board and Committee meetings held in 2008 enable the successful planning and execution of the objectives The following table shows the total number of Board and and strategies agreed by the Board.
He is also responsible for Committee meetings held in 2008 and the number attended stewardship of the Groups assets and, jointly with the Chairman, by their respective members.
Where a Director was not a representation of the Group externally.
member of the Board or a Committee throughout the year, Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 83 Directors report and accounts Corporate governance statement continued Senior Independent Director Directors are required to give advance notice of any situational Sir Nicholas Scheele is the Senior Independent Director.
and transactional conflicts to the Company Secretary and any He will, if required, preside at meetings of the Board and such matters will be considered either at the next Board meeting shareholders in the absence of the Chairman and he also or, if the conflict or potential conflict is due to arise prior to chairs the Nominations Committee when it is considering the the next scheduled Board meeting, the Conflicts Committee.
He is available should occasion Where a Director seeks authorisation in respect of a situational arise where there is a need to convey concerns to the Main conflict, he or she together with any other interested Director Board other than through the Chairman or Chief Executive.
will be excluded from the quorum and the vote.
The Board He and the other Non-Executive Directors are available to or Conflicts Committee as the case may be will note any meet with major investors in order to understand their views declared transactional conflicts and consider and, where and concerns.
it sees fit, authorise any declared situational conflicts.
The full Board will be notified of any matters authorised by the Board balance and independence Conflicts Committee at its next meeting.
Annually, at the first The Board considers that 6 of the 7 Non-Executive Directors Board meeting following the year end, the Board will review are independent, meaning that they are free from any all situational conflicts which have previously been authorised business or other relationships which could materially interfere by it or by the Conflicts Committee.
The review will take the with or appear to affect the exercise of their judgement form of a fresh consideration of each situational conflict.
and have not previously been involved in the management of the Group.
Thys Visser is presumed not to be independent The Company Secretary maintains a register of all conflicts because of the shareholding that he represented throughout which have been addressed under these procedures.
Accordingly, he does not sit on the Audit or Appointments to the Board Remuneration Committees, both of which comprise solely The Boards Nominations Committee is responsible for making independent Non-Executive Directors.
He will be retiring from recommendations on suitable candidates for appointment the Board at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General to the Board and for promotion to the Management Board, Meeting on 30 April 2009.
The Company is currently looking ensuring that both Boards have the appropriate balance of to recruit a further Non-Executive Director to the Board.
It is chaired by Jan du Plessis and its Conflicts of interest remaining membership comprises all of the Non-Executive The Board has established formal procedures for managing Directors.
The Chief Executive and the Management Board compliance with the conflict of interest provisions of the member responsible for Human Resources regularly attend Companies Act 2006, which came into effect on 1 October meetings by invitation but are not members.
Under these provisions: The Nominations Committee is responsible for ensuring that directors may not allow any situation to arise in which the procedure for appointing new Directors is rigorous and they will have, or may have, a direct or indirect interest transparent and that appointments are made on merit and that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests against objective criteria for the purpose.
It reviews forthcoming of the company situational conflicts, unless the matter retirements at least once a year and considers the need to has been authorised in advance by the companys board identify candidates to fill vacancies on the Board.
This process in accordance with its Articles of Association: and includes an evaluation of the skills and experience to be looked for in those candidates to ensure continuing Board balance.
directors must declare in advance any interest in a The selection process will generally involve interviews with a proposed transaction or arrangement with the company selection of candidates, using where appropriate the services of transactional conflicts.
executive search firms specialising in board-level recruitment.
The Companys Articles of Association as amended by This process is currently being followed in connection with the special resolution adopted on 30 April 2008 permit the efforts underway to recruit an additional Non-Executive Director Board to authorise situational conflicts see the section on to join the Board.
Directors interests in the summary of the Memorandum and Directors are submitted for reappointment at regular intervals Articles of Association in the Directors report.
The Board by application of the Companys Articles of Association.
These has established a Conflicts Committee to consider and, where require that at each Annual General Meeting: 1 not less than appropriate, authorise situational conflicts notified to the one-third of the Directors who are subject to retirement by Company by Directors between scheduled meetings of the rotation must retire: and 2 any Director has to retire who Main Board.
The Conflicts Committee comprises all members was not appointed at either of the 2 previous Annual General of the Board and has a quorum of 2 Directors.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 84 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Meetings and who has served as a Director for more than During 2008, the Board was briefed on relevant aspects of 2 years since appointment or last reappointment.
the Companies Act 2006, including in particular the provisions relating to directors conflicts of interest which came into force The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts on 1 October 2008 see above.
The Board and its Committees with the Company but instead have letters of appointment.
also continue to be updated on relevant developments in For Non-Executive Directors appointed before 1 October 2007, the field of corporate governance, including for example, the terms of appointment of each such Director provide that the updated Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the he or she is appointed for a specified term, being an initial Financial Reporting Council in October 2008. period to the next Annual General Meeting after appointment and, subject to reappointment at that meeting, for a further All Directors have access to the advice and services of the period ending at the Annual General Meeting held 3 years Company Secretary, and a procedure is in place for them thereafter.
Subsequent reappointment is subject to endorsement to take independent professional advice at the Companys by the Board and the approval of shareholders.
Following the expense should this be required.
The Company has arranged implementation of the relevant provisions of the Companies appropriate insurance to provide cover in the event of legal Act 2006, an appointment of a Non-Executive Director made action against its Directors.
by the Company from 1 October 2007 is made on the basis Evaluation of Board performance of a 2 year term, such appointment being subject to approval The Board conducts a critical evaluation of its activities on by shareholders in accordance with the terms of the provisions an annual basis.
A questionnaire-based peer review of the of the Companys Articles of Association relating to the rotation performance of the Chairman, the Executive Directors, the of Directors.
There is a general assumption on the part of Non-Executive Directors, the Board and its Committees is the Board that Non-Executive Directors will not normally conducted by the Company Secretary.
In 2008, this was be invited to stand for reappointment after serving 9 years.
followed by separate interviews between the Company The Nominations Committee has made recommendations to Secretary and each Director to allow a further opportunity the Board as to the Directors who are retiring and being put to explore particular areas in more detail: forward for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting the results of the review of the Committees and the Board on 30 April 2009. are discussed with the Chairman and presented to the Board: Information and professional development the results of the review of the individual performance All Directors receive induction on joining the Board, covering of each Director excluding the Chairman are raised by their duties and responsibilities as Directors.
Non-Executive the Chairman with that Director, as appropriate: and Directors also receive at least 2 days briefings on all areas of the Companys business from the Executive Directors, the results of the review of the Chairmans performance Management Board members and other senior executives, are discussed by the Non-Executive Directors without the and they may request such further information as they consider Chairman present and feedback is given by the Senior necessary.
Karen fide Segundo and Christine Morin-Postel, who Independent Director on a one-to-one basis.
were both appointed to the Board in October 2007, completed The Chairman also discusses the effectiveness and performance their induction early in 2008.
In addition, all Directors have the of Directors immediately before they make themselves available opportunity to update their skills and knowledge on a regular for reappointment and, in addition, the Remuneration basis, for example through further briefings on the business and Committee evaluates the effectiveness of the Chairman and on legal and regulatory requirements, and by visits to Company the Chief Executive annually.
They also make use of the opportunity to attend meetings of the Groups regional audit and CSR committees.
The process in 2008 confirmed that all Directors considered the Board to be working well, to be efficient and effective, The Board and its Committees receive high-quality, up-to-date and to have a good balance of the necessary skills required, information for review in good time ahead of each meeting, although there was a general consensus that, with the and the Company Secretary, under the direction of the forthcoming retirement of Thys Visser, a further Non-Executive Chairman, ensures good information flows within the Board Director should be appointed in due course this is currently and its Committees and between the Non-Executive Directors being pursued see above.
The decision to split membership and senior management.
She is also responsible for advising of the Audit and CSR Committees see above was also universally the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
welcomed, and a review was suggested in 12 months time to The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is see how the new structures are working.
The Non-Executive a matter for the Board.
Directors were highly supportive of the Executive team and Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 85 Directors report and accounts Corporate governance statement continued expressed their appreciation of the culture of openness auditors,  LLP, is met through the and transparency within the Group.
In particular, they Audit Committee.
The role of the Audit Committee is to welcomed their access to management below the level monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the of the Management Board, most frequently at the regional Company and review and, when appropriate, make audit and CSR committee meetings.
recommendations to the Main Board on business risks, internal controls and compliance.
The Committee satisfies The Notice for this years Annual General Meeting confirms itself, by means of suitable steps and appropriate information, that the performance of the Directors being proposed for that proper and satisfactory internal control systems are reappointment continues to be effective and that they continue in place to identify and manage business risks and that to show commitment to their role.
the Companys business, and that of its subsidiaries, is Remuneration conducted in a proper and economically sound manner.
It is the role of the Remuneration Committee to determine The Audit Committee is chaired by Robert Lerwill and the framework and policy on terms of engagement including comprises 3 other independent Non-Executive Directors remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors and Christine Morin-Postel, Anthony Ruys and Sir Nicholas Scheele.
members of the Management Board, and the specific Karen fide Segundo and Ana Maria Llopis were members of remuneration of each Executive Director and Management the Audit Committee until 1 October 2008.
At that time, Board member including entitlements under share incentive membership of the Audit Committee, together with that schemes and pension schemes and any compensation of the CSR Committee, was revised to allow more efficient payments.
The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are and focused debate.
The Chief Operating Officer and the considered annually and are based upon the recommendation Finance Director regularly attend meetings of the Committee of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The terms of engagement by invitation but are not members.
The Committees meetings of, and fees payable to, the Chairman are also reviewed are also regularly attended by the Head of Audit and Business annually, taking account of the breadth of the role coupled Risk, the General Counsel to the Company and a representative with the required levels of commitment and expertise.
As a matter of best practice, the Anthony Ruys assumed chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee meets alone with the external auditors at the Committee upon Kenneth Clarkes retirement on 30 April end of every meeting.
Its other members are Robert Lerwill, Ana Maria Llopis, The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to review Christine Morin-Postel, Sir Nicholas Scheele and Karen fide any activity within the business.
It is authorised to seek any Segundo.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and the Management information it requires from, and require the attendance at any Board member responsible for Human Resources regularly of its meetings of, any Director or member of management, attend meetings by invitation but are not members.
and all employees are expected to cooperate with any request Details of the Directors remuneration are set out in Table 1 made by the Committee.
The Committee is authorised by of the Remuneration report.
the Board to obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional advice and secure Accountability and audit the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and Financial reporting expertise if it considers this necessary.
The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligation to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent position and prospects in the Directors report and accounts meeting of the Board on the Committees work and the Board and the Business review and in interim reports, reports to receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting.
The papers regulators and price-sensitive announcements.
A summary considered by the Committee are available to any Director of the Directors responsibilities for the financial statements who is not a member, should they wish to receive them.
The and their statement concerning relevant audit information is Committees effectiveness is reviewed annually as part of the included in the Directors report.
The Directors statement that Board evaluation process.
In 2008, the Board concluded that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis it continues to operate effectively.
in preparing the accounts is also set out in the Directors report.
Activities of the Audit Committee in 2008 Audit Committee The Audit Committee met 5 times during 2008, including The Boards obligation to establish formal and transparent immediately before the Companys full year results were arrangements for considering how it should apply financial published.
It follows an agreed annual work programme reporting and internal control principles, and for maintaining comprising both regular items and areas considered to an appropriate relationship with the Companys external require particular focus.
During 2008, it continued to British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 86 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements External auditors and all formal announcements concerning the Companys The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, financial performance, to review significant financial reporting expertise and resources, and independence of the external judgements contained in them, and to keep under review the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The consistency of accounting policies applied across the Group.
Committees assessment is made with reference to a satisfaction It met regularly with management and with the internal survey of the external auditors completed by members of and external auditors to review the effectiveness of internal senior management.
controls and business risk management, and received reports  LLP have been the Companys from the Head of Audit and Business Risk, the Head of Group auditors since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in Security and the Groups regional audit and CSR committees September 1998.
The Audit Committee considers that the and corporate audit committee.
The specific items considered relationship with the auditors is working well and remains by the Audit Committee during 2008 included: satisfied with their effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has not a comprehensive review of Group risks in light of the current considered it necessary to date to require the firm to tender macroeconomic situation, and the risk mitigation plans in for the audit work.
The external auditors are required to rotate place to manage identified risks see Key Group risk factors : the audit partners responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every 5 years and the current lead audit partner has the Groups position with regard to counterparty risks and been in place for 4 years.
There are no contractual obligations liquidity issues in the light of volatility in the financial markets restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
and the failure of a number of significant financial institutions: The Audit Committee has an established policy aimed at a revised audit and CSR committee framework, which safeguarding and supporting the external auditors independence recommended the merging of regional and where and objectivity.
Pursuant to this policy, it keeps under review possible area and individual market audit and CSR the ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees charged by the committees to enhance their efficiency and effectiveness: external auditors to ensure that neither their independence compliance with the Standards of Business Conduct: nor their objectivity is put at risk, and takes steps to ensure that they do not audit their own work.
It remains confident compliance with records management procedures: that the objectivity and independence of the external auditors the annual works plan for the Groups internal audit function: are not in any way impaired by reason of the non-audit services which they provide to the Group.
Moreover, the an independent review of the internal audit function and the Committee is satisfied that such work is best handled by them, implementation of proposals arising from the review: and either because of their knowledge of the Group or because revised Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the they have been awarded it through a competitive tendering Financial Reporting Council.
A breakdown of non-audit fees charged by the auditors is disclosed in note 3 d in the Notes on the accounts.
It has satisfied itself that proper and satisfactory internal controls remain in place to identify and contain business risks, The Audit Committee has completed its assessment of the and that the Companys business, and that of its subsidiaries, is external auditors for the financial period under review.
Having being conducted in a proper and economically sound manner.
satisfied itself as to their qualification, expertise, resources and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process, it The Groups whistleblowing policy and procedures enable staff, has recommended to the Board, for approval by shareholders, in confidence, to raise concerns about possible improprieties in the reappointment of  LLP as the financial and other matters and to do so without fear of reprisal, Companys external auditors and approved their fees and provided that such concerns are not raised in bad faith.
Details of this policy are set out in the Companys Standards of Business Conduct.
The policy is supplemented by local Internal control procedures throughout the Group and at the Groups London The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal headquarters, which provide staff with additional guidance control for the Company and its subsidiaries, and for reviewing and enable them to report matters in a language with which the systems effectiveness.
With the support of the Audit they are comfortable.
The Audit Committee receives regular Committee, it carries out such a review annually, covering reports on whistleblowing incidents.
It remains satisfied that the all material controls including financial, operational and policy and the procedures in place incorporate arrangements compliance controls and risk management systems, and for the proportionate and independent investigation of matters reports to shareholders that it has done so.
raised and for the appropriate follow-up action.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 87 Directors report and accounts Corporate governance statement continued Overview Risk management and internal control processes The Company maintains a sound system of internal control Risk registers are used at Group, regional, area and individual with a view to safeguarding shareholders investment and market level to identify, assess and monitor the key risks both the Companys assets.
It is designed to identify, evaluate financial and non-financial faced by the business at each and manage risks that may impede the achievement of the level.
Mitigation plans are required to be in place to manage Companys business objectives rather than to eliminate these the risks identified and the risk registers and mitigation plans risks and can therefore provide only reasonable, not absolute, are reviewed and, where appropriate, updated on a regular assurance against material misstatement or loss.
They are also reviewed regularly by the relevant audit of the key risk factors that may affect the Groups business is and CSR committee, the corporate audit committee or, in the provided in the Business review.
case of the Group risk register, by the Boards Audit Committee.
The main features of the risk management processes and Group companies and other business units are required system of internal control operated within the Group are at least annually to complete a checklist of the key controls identified below.
They do not cover the Groups associate which they are expected to have in place, called Control undertakings.
Save to the extent indicated in relation to Navigator.
Its purpose is to enable them to self-assess their developments which occurred during the year, they have internal control environment, assist them in identifying any been in place throughout the year under review and remain controls which may require strengthening and support them in place.
in implementing and monitoring action plans to address control weaknesses.
In addition, at each year end, Group Audit and CSR Committee framework companies and other business units are required to: During 2008, the Groups Audit Committee and CSR Committee networks were merged at regional level and review their system of internal control, confirm whether where possible at area and individual market levels, on the it remains effective and report on any material weaknesses basis that many of the issues being considered by them at and the action being taken to address them: and regional level and below were similar or related for example, review and confirm compliance with the Standards of financial and reputational risk factors.
The Audit and CSR Business Conduct and identify any material instances Committee framework supports the Boards Audit and CSR of non-compliance or conflicts of interest identified.
Committees and provides a continuing process for managing the significant risks faced by the Company and its subsidiaries, The results of these reviews are reported to the relevant including not only financial risks but also significant social, regional audit and CSR committee or to the corporate environmental and reputational risks.
It is designed to capture audit committee and, where appropriate, to the Boards and evaluate failings and weaknesses and to ensure that Audit Committee to ensure that appropriate remedial appropriate remedial action is taken where necessary.
action has been, or will be, taken where necessary.
The Groups regional audit and CSR committees which The Groups internal audit function provides advice and are all chaired by an Executive Director focus on risks and guidance to the Groups businesses on best practice in risk the control environment within each region and are in turn management and control systems.
It is also responsible for supported by area and or individual market audit and CSR carrying out audit checks on Group companies and other committees.
The Groups corporate audit committee focuses business units, and does so against an audit plan presented on the risks and the control environment within the Groups annually to the Audit Committee, which focuses in particular operations which do not fall under the responsibility of the on higher risk areas of the Groups business.
regional, area and local audit and CSR committees, for Review example head office central functions, global programmes The Turnbull Guidance the Guidance sets out best practice and above-region projects.
It comprises members of the on internal control for UK-listed companies to assist them in Management Board and is chaired by a Management Board assessing the application of the Codes principles and compliance member responsible for 1 of the Groups regions to maximise with the Codes provisions with regard to internal control.
The its independence from central executive management.
current version of the Guidance applies to listed companies The relevant external and internal auditors regularly attend for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2006. meetings of these committees and have private audiences The processes described above, and the reports that they with members of the committees at least once each year.
In give rise to, enable the Board and the Audit Committee to addition, central, regional and individual market management, monitor the internal control framework on a continuing basis along with internal audit, supports the Board in its role of throughout the year and to review its effectiveness at the year ensuring a sound control environment.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 88 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
The Board, with advice from its Audit Committee, has period during May and June 2008 a postal Commission Free completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system Share Dealing Service to those holding 500 or fewer shares.
of internal control for the period since 1 January 2008.
No This initiative was well received, with a number of small significant failings or weaknesses were identified and the shareholders taking up the offer.
Board is satisfied that, where specific areas for improvement On a broader level, the Company is aware that its shareholders have been identified, processes are in place to ensure that in common with those of many other companies have the necessary remedial action is taken and that progress is received unsolicited telephone calls or mail concerning monitored.
The Board is satisfied that the system of internal investment matters.
These are typically from people stating control is in accordance with the Guidance.
that they are brokers based abroad and, in what are known Relations with shareholders as boiler room scams, they target UK shareholders offering The Board maintains a dialogue with shareholders directed to sell what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares towards ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
To reinforce an earlier initiative from Its primary contact with shareholders is through the Chief February 2007, the Company wrote to its shareholders in the Executive and Finance Director, but the Chairman also maintains latter part of 2008 to remind them of the continued growth contact with major shareholders in order to understand their in unsolicited investment advice and to advise of the actions issues and concerns.
Where appropriate, major institutional that they should take if approached in this way.
shareholders are consulted on significant changes to the Corporate social responsibility structure of the Directors remuneration.
The Chairman and The CSR Committee supports the Companys commitment the Executive Directors also undertook a series of presentations to social and environmental issues.
Its role is to keep under to potential institutional investors in South Africa as part of review and make appropriate recommendations to the Board the preparations for the Companys secondary listing on the as regards the Groups management of significant social, JSE Limited JSE in October 2008. environmental and reputational issues and the conduct of At least twice a year, the Head of Investor Relations presents a business in accordance with the Statement of business principles.
report to the Board on the various issues raised by institutional The CSR Committee is chaired by Karen fide Segundo, who shareholders.
In addition, the Board receives a report at each of assumed chairmanship following the retirement of Kenneth its meetings on any changes to the holdings of the Companys Clarke on 30 April 2008.
Its other members are Ana Maria main institutional shareholders.
Llopis, Sir Nicholas Scheele and Thys Visser.
Robert Lerwill, The Annual General Meeting is the principal opportunity Christine Morin-Postel and Anthony Ruys were members of for the Board to meet investors and for the Chairman to the CSR Committee until 1 October 2008, when the decision explain the Companys progress and receive questions from to change the composition of the CSR Committee and the its owners, the shareholders.
At its Annual General Meetings, Audit Committee was implemented.
The Chairman, Chief the Company provides for the vote on each resolution to be Executive and the Management Board member responsible by poll, using its Registrars electronic voting system, rather for Corporate and Regulatory Affairs regularly attend meetings than by show of hands.
This provides for greater transparency by invitation but are not members.
and allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, The CSR Committees terms of reference were reviewed including those cast by proxy.
The Chairman announces the and amended with effect from 2 December 2008, in order provisional voting results at the Meeting, and the final results to clarify its remit following the merger of audit and CSR are announced on the same day through the Regulatory News committees across the Group see below.
As a result of the Service and on www.
In 2008, for the first time, the Committees revised remit, and in order to establish greater Company appointed an independent assessor to scrutinise continuity between meetings, an additional scheduled CSR the Annual General Meeting and to produce a report of the Committee meeting will be held in July each year from 2009. meeting, covering the proxy voting process, attendance and an audit of the poll procedures.
The report confirmed the The Companys Social Reports have detailed its social, ethical adequacy, accuracy and fairness of the proxy process and the and environmental performance and performance against voting procedures and systems.
It is planned that this will be commitments each year since the first Social Report in 2002. repeated at future Annual General Meetings, including in 2009.
In 2008, the Company published its first Sustainability Report outlining the 5 key elements of its sustainability agenda.
The Company continues to engage with its shareholders in The Company will continue to publish an annual Sustainability other areas.
In recognition of the fact that some shareholders Report in place of the previous Social Report, outlining progress can find it inconvenient or uneconomical to hold a small in each area of the sustainability agenda.
Further details of the number of shares, the Company made available for a limited Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 89 Directors report and accounts Corporate governance statement continued Companys performance on social, ethical and environmental American Depositary Receipts issues can be found on www.
The Company has unlisted trading privileges for its American Depositary Receipts ADRs on NYSE Alternext US the Sustainability reporting, like the social reporting that preceded rebranded identity of the former American Stock Exchange.
it, is conducted using a robust methodology, including None of its securities is listed on any United States securities independent assurance, in line with the latest AA1000 exchange or registered pursuant to the securities laws of the Assurance Standard.
Engagement with key stakeholders United States.
As a result, the Company is subject to neither is a major requirement of the Standard.
the NYSE Alternext US listing standards nor the corporate The principles of CSR continue to be strongly embedded in governance rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. the Group.
During 2008, following a review of CSR governance Nevertheless, the Board has chosen, in the interests of good processes, the Groups CSR committees were merged with governance, to make a voluntary statement explaining the its audit committees at regional level and where possible principal differences and common areas between the at area and individual market levels in order to standardise Companys corporate governance practices as explained financial and non-financial risk management and internal above and those that would be required if the Company were control processes.
The CSR Checklist, first used in 2006, subject to those rules.
The updated statement will be available has been updated and incorporated into Control Navigator, on the Corporate governance section of www.
com from the Groups internal audit control checklist.
Oversight of CSR the date of publication of the Directors report and accounts.
governance continues to be provided by the CSR Committee.
Compliance The Company has been included in both the Dow Jones The Board considers that this statement on governance Sustainability World Index DJSI World and the Dow Jones provides the information necessary to enable shareholders STOXX Sustainability Index for the seventh successive year.
to evaluate how the Principles of the Code have been applied.
It was placed in the second highest Gold Band in the The Board considers that the Company has complied with Corporate Responsibility Index 2007 run by Business in the the Provisions of the Code throughout the year and that Community, the 700 member organisation established in it has therefore satisfied its obligations under the Code.
the UK to help business improve its positive impact on society.
In the interests of further transparency, we have again prepared The Company was rated first in its sector and included in the a report which summarises the matters addressed in this highest Platinum Band for environmental performance in statement, as appropriate, by reference to each Principle and the Business in the Environment Index for 2007.
The updated report will be available on the Corporate governance section of www.
com from the date of publication of the Directors report and accounts.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 90 Directors report and accounts
