41 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance The following section, together with the remuneration report, details Duncan Goldie-Morrison was the senior independent director until his how the Company has applied the principles set out in the Combined resignation from the board in July 2007.
James McNulty was appointed Code and includes additional disclosures, where appropriate.
the senior independent director in November 2007 and provides an The directors believe that during the year they have complied with additional contact point for shareholders if the normal contact channels the provisions of the Combined Code except for a period before the are inappropriate.
With the exception of the Chairman, all the nonappointment of a new independent non-executive director when the executive directors are independent of management and considered by board was not equally balanced between executives and independent the board to be free from any business or other relationships which could non-executive directors.
interfere with the exercise of their independence.
Profiles of each of the directors and details of their membership of board committees are given Directors on pages 36 and 37.
The Company is headed by an experienced board of directors consisting Board nominations are recommended to the board by the nomination of a non-executive Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, three committee under its terms of reference.
further executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
The board meets at least six times a year, with three meetings In accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys articles of being held overseas.
In addition, during the year the board held a association, all directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders separate meeting which focused solely on corporate strategy.
at the first opportunity following their appointment and, subsequently, must seek re-election at least once every three years.
The board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision and approval which include, but are not limited to: New directors to the board are provided with appropriate training and briefings which take into account their individual qualifications and the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: experience.
All directors receive, during their term of office, regular acquisitions, disposals and major investments: briefings on changes and developments in the Groups business and legislative and regulatory changes which are relevant to the Group.
the Groups annual and half-year reports: During the year the board evaluated its performance and that of its any significant change in accounting policies or practices: committees and individual directors.
This was done by way of a any interim dividend and recommendation of the final dividend: questionnaire which was completed by each director to evaluate effectiveness and accountability and by individual meetings with the the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: Chairman.
The collective results were then discussed by the board any changes to the Companys capital structure or its status as with actions agreed.
The board has considered and agreed that each of a listed company: Charles Gregson and William Nabarro, who are standing for re-election at the annual general meeting, continue to perform effectively and to risk management strategy: and demonstrate commitment to his role.
The board considered with treasury policy.
William Nabarro excusing himself from such discussions the nomination for the re-election of William Nabarro with particular rigour, as he had Information is provided in a timely and regular manner to directors for all served as a director for nearly eight and a half years.
The board was meetings to enable them to exercise their judgement in the discharge satisfied that his re-appointment as an independent non-executive of their duties.
In addition other senior executives attend certain board director for a further term was warranted having regard to his ongoing meetings and make presentations on potential acquisitions, the results contribution and valuable experience on the board.
and strategies of their businesses.
The board manages the Group through board meetings and a number All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group of committees, each of which has detailed terms of reference and Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board meets regularly.
The terms of reference of the audit, remuneration procedures and applicable rules are observed.
There is a procedure and nomination committees are available on the Groups website, to enable the directors to obtain independent professional advice in www.
The minutes of each of the committees are made respect of their duties at the Companys expense.
This facility extends available to all directors and the board receives an update from each to the members of audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers.
There is a clear division between the roles and the responsibilities of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading and managing the business.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 42 Corporate governance continued Board and committee attendance The audit committee is responsible for: The following table sets out the number of meetings of the board and monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any its committees during the year ended 31 March 2008 and individual announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: attendance by directors at those meetings: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and risk Audit Remuneration Nomination management systems: Board committee committee committee assessing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Current directors external auditors: Charles Gregson 6 2 developing and implementing policies on the engagement of the Michael Spencer 6 1 external auditors for the supply of non-audit services: Matthew Lester 6 making recommendations for the appointment, re-appointment Mark Yallop 6 and removal of the external auditors and approving their remuneration Nicholas Cosh 5432 and terms of engagement: James McNulty 6231 monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal William Nabarro 5322 audit function: and David Puth appointed reviewing arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise 15 November 2007 2 1 1 concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting Former directors or other matters.
Duncan Goldie-Morrison Appointments to the committee are made by the board on the resigned 18 July 2007 2211 recommendation of the Groups nomination committee following Stephen McDermott consultation with the chairman of the audit committee.
resigned 20 March 2008 5 The board has satisfied itself that the chairman of the audit committee, Total number of meetings6432 and the committee collectively, possess recent and relevant financial experience to enable the committee to function effectively and to Director absences from meetings were the result of illness or unavoidable discharge its responsibilities.
diary clashes and were agreed with the Chairman in advance.
Directors The committee meets four times a year with meetings coinciding with who were unable to attend meetings received the papers for those the start of the external audit cycle, the financial year end and the meetings, enabling them to send their comments to the Chairman prior publication of the annual and half-yearly reports.
In attendance at such to the meeting as appropriate.
meetings, by invitation only, are the Chairman, Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Finance Director, Ernst & Young as internal auditor and Audit committee representatives from the external auditors.
The chairman of the audit All members of the committee are independent non-executive directors.
committee also maintains contact with those attendees throughout The following directors served on the committee during the year: the year.
At the end of at least two of the committee meetings Nicholas Cosh FCA chairman representatives from Ernst & Young as internal auditor and the external Duncan Goldie-Morrison resigned 18 July 2007 auditors are given the opportunity to raise any issues, in private, without James McNulty appointed 18 July 2007 management being present.
William Nabarro David Puth appointed 15 November 2007 43 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements The chairman of the audit committee reports on the committees Management is responsible for maintaining an effective system of deliberations and any significant issues that may have arisen to the board internal controls with the board being responsible for reviewing its meeting following each meeting of the committee.
To assist the board in this duty, the committee reviews the Groups internal financial controls and risk management In the 2007 08 financial year, the committee reviewed the Groups systems.
Details of the steps taken by the committee to review the annual and half-yearly financial statements, prior to their approval by effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are set out the board.
In doing so, it ensured that the accounting policies adopted, in the business review on page 28. and the judgements and disclosures made in the preparation of those financial statements, were the most appropriate to the circumstances The committee has reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements of the Group.
within the Group and is satisfied that the existing arrangements are still appropriate.
In the course of the year the committee was kept up to date on developments in accounting standards and financial reporting and Remuneration committee their likely impact on the Groups financial statements.
The remuneration report is set out on pages 45 to 51.
During the year, the committee received regular reports on the work of the outsourced internal audit department and reviewed the authority, Nomination committee scope of work, resources and effectiveness of the function.
The Ernst The following directors served on the committee during the year: & Young representative has direct access to the audit committee and William Nabarro chairman its chairman.
The committee also considered the external auditors Nicholas Cosh Group management letter on accounting procedures and systems of Duncan Goldie-Morrison resigned 18 July 2007 internal financial control.
Charles Gregson During the financial year, the committee reviewed and approved the James McNulty proposed audit fee and terms of engagement for the 2007 08 audit Michael Spencer and recommended to the board that it proposes to shareholders that The committee recommends to the board appointments for the roles of  LLP be re-appointed as the Groups external Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, executive and non-executive auditor for 2008 09.
The committee also monitored the balance of directors.
In November 2007 David Puth was appointed a non-executive audit and non-audit fees to ensure that the independence and director.
No external agency or open advertising was used for this objectivity of the external auditors is maintained.
The appointment was made following a review by the  LLP was the main provider of external advice committee of the skills and criteria being sought from this appointment but their work was limited to specific areas and the services of other to the board and a shortlist of candidates was prepared.
The preferred firms was used on an ongoing basis.
Any proposed non-audit candidate was then seen by a wider group of directors.
assignments, with fees in excess of 50,000, are subject to the committees prior review and approval.
As part of its consideration of the annual financial statements the committee has reviewed and is satisfied that the auditors have remained independent of the Group during the financial year and continued to do so to the date of this report.
The committee also received details from  LLP of its own independence procedures and confirmation that, in its opinion, it remained independent throughout the year.
Following the completion of the Group audit for 2007 08, the committee has undertaken to review the effectiveness of the external audit process and the qualification, expertise and resources of the external auditors.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 44 Corporate governance continued There are two further board committees which report directly to the Relations and dialogue with shareholders board of the Company, but whose membership does not include The board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for the non-executive directors.
performance and activities of the Group and is very much aware of the importance of maintaining good relations and communications Group risk committee with all its shareholders.
The annual and half-year financial statements, The committee is chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer together with the interim management statements and Stock Exchange and includes the Group Finance Director and senior managers from announcements, are published on the investor relations section of the ICAPs businesses and key support functions.
com, as soon as they are released.
Major shareholder and analysts presentations are also made available.
The The committee is responsible for ensuring that the Groups risk board recognises that the annual general meeting provides shareholders management framework, risk appetite, risk strategy and policies are with an opportunity to receive information on the Groups business appropriate to the activities of the Group.
The committee reviews the performance and to question senior management on any business Groups risk exposures and ensures adherence to Group risk policy matter.
All the directors attended the 2007 annual general meeting.
particularly in relation to credit, market and operational risk.
The Group has an established programme of communication with its It is the boards responsibility to determine the Groups risk appetite institutional investors and analysts.
At the time of the announcement of and identify, monitor and assess the significant risks the Group may be the final and half-year results, presentations are made to analysts, the exposed to.
The committee is responsible for developing procedures for press and institutional investors.
In addition, there are regular meetings managing risk in line with board approved polices and limits.
This includes during the year subject to relevant regulatory constraints with analysts establishing and maintaining an adequate, sound and appropriate internal and investors to update them on developments in the Groups strategy control structure, evaluating its effectiveness and promptly identifying and performance.
material weaknesses and taking corrective steps.
Accountability and audit Finance committee The directors statement regarding their responsibility for preparing The committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director and includes the Annual Report is set out in the directors report on page 40 and the the Group Chief Operating Officer.
independent auditors report regarding their reporting responsibility is The committee is responsible for reviewing and making detailed on page 52. recommendations to the board in relation to matters affecting the structure, financing, tax and treasury aspects of the Group and to ensure By order of the board compliance with board approved financing, treasury and tax policies.
Detailed information on risk management and financial risk management Deborah Abrehart is set out on pages 24 to 28 of the business review and in note 23 to Group Company Secretary the financial statements.
