IG Group Holdings plc 26 Report and Financial Statements 2008 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance One of the non-executive directors, Robert Lucas, is considered to be Statement by the directors in a non-independent non-executive director as he represents funds managed or advised by CVC Capital Partners Limited and associates compliance with the Combined Code CVC, a substantial shareholder, holding 7.7% of the ordinary share The board is satisfied that the Group complied with the provisions capital of the company at 31 May 2008 2007 7.7%.
Robert Lucas of the Combined Code on corporate governance, issued by the was invited to remain on the board at last years AGM because of the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006, for the whole year, with very valuable contribution he makes to the board.
Robert has been the following exception that the Group was not compliant with involved with the IG Group since 2003 and has a detailed knowledge paragraph A.
of the company and its businesses.
His contribution to the board is recognised and he is valued for his challenging participation at Paragraph A.
3.2 of the Combined Code requires that at least half of board meetings.
In this respect, his experience and knowledge of the board, excluding the Chairman, are independent non-executive the industry combined with his skills as an investment professional directors.
The board is comprised of four executive directors and four are highly regarded by the independent non-executive directors and non-executive directors excluding the Deputy Chairman and the on balance weighing up all the considerations and the best interests Chairman.
of the shareholders the board considers that Roberts presence on the board is a positive asset to the IG Group and that this outweighs The board recognises that whilst Nat le Roux, as former Chief Executive other considerations.
and now Deputy Chairman, will be considered a non-independent director, it has taken the view that his 16 years experience with the The board further considers that the three independent nonGroup and the value he brings as an advisor in the uniquely specialised executive directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their market of spread betting and retail contracts for difference justifies his views carry significant weight in the boards decision making and position on the board and is in the best interests of the Group and the the board considers that its current composition is appropriate.
biographies of the directors appear on pages 16 and 17.
IG Group Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report and Financial Statements 2008 27 All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The workings of the board and its Secretary, who is responsible to the board for ensuring that board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are committees complied with.
Directors receive appropriate training as necessary when they are appointed.
Training on the duties and responsibilities The board of directors is provided by the Groups legal advisers.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive is clearly defined in writing and has been approved by the board.
The Group purchases appropriate liability insurance for all directors and staff.
The board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
A statement of the directors responsibilities in respect The board meets regularly: at least five times a year.
In addition to of the financial statements is set out on page 43 and a statement its regular meetings the board meets when necessary to discuss regarding the use of the going concern basis in preparing these strategic opportunities such as acquisitions.
The non-executive financial statements is given on page 41. directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are appropriate and fully The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it.
To enable the board to discharge its duties, all directors These include: receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers are distributed to all directors in advance of board meetings and financial Setting Group strategy information is distributed monthly.
The chairman ensures that the Approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure directors take independent professional advice as required.
Approval of extension of the Groups activities into new business or geographic areas The following committees deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs: Approving annual budgets Reviewing operational and financial performance Remuneration committee Reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and risk The remuneration committee is chaired by Roger Yates.
It makes management recommendations to the board, within agreed terms of reference, Approving board, board committee and Company Secretary on an overall remuneration package for executive directors in appointments order to attract, retain and motivate high quality directors capable Ensuring adequate succession planning for the board and senior of achieving the Groups objectives.
Consideration is given to pay management and employment policies elsewhere in the Group, especially when determining annual salary increases.
The committee determines Defining and setting board committee terms of reference the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the Approving policies relating to directors remuneration and the executive directors, including performance related bonus schemes, severance of directors contracts pension rights, compensation payments and contingent share Approving any changes to the Groups risk management policy awards.
The committee approves all share-based awards under which materially increases the risk profile of the Group the Groups LTIP and SIP schemes.
The board itself determines the Receiving reports on the views of the Companys shareholders remuneration of the non-executive directors.
Matters not specifically reserved to the board are delegated to the Audit committee executive directors.
These include: The audit committee is chaired by Martin Jackson, who has recent and relevant financial experience.
It meets not less than three The development and recommendation of strategic plans for the times annually.
The committee provides a forum for reporting by Group the Groups external and internal auditors.
Meetings may also be Implementation of the strategies of the Group attended for all or part of the meetings, by invitation, by the Chief Day to day monitoring of the operating and financial results of the Executive, the Finance Director, the head of internal audit, the Group compliance officer, and the external auditors.
Prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources Developing and implementing risk management systems, policies and procedures IG Group Holdings plc 28 Report and Financial Statements 2008 Corporate Governance The workings of the board and its committees continued The terms of reference set out the roles, responsibilities and objectives of the audit committee.
The committees key activities include selecting appropriate accounting policies, approving significant accounting judgements and estimates, monitoring the integrity of the half year interim report and annual financial statements before their submission to the board and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems including compliance with regulatory requirements.
The audit committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal audit and advises the board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration, and discusses the nature, scope and results of their work.
The audit committee keeps under review the level of fees and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and regularly monitors the non-audit services being provided.
A copy of the external auditor policy for non-audit services is available on the Group website in the policies section.
This policy sets out types of assignment which the auditors are precluded from undertaking and those which they may undertake.
It also sets limits for the levels of fees which may be paid to the external auditors without prior approval of the audit committee or, in the cases of certain types of assignment, without a competitive tendering process.
The external auditors provide an annual report to the audit committee confirming the procedures they have undertaken to confirm their independence.
During the year, the committee expanded its terms of reference.
These changes included: Reviewing effectiveness of the Companys implementation of processes to meet the FSAs requirements to demonstrate the consistent fair treatment of customers: Reviewing the Companys procedures for detecting internal fraud.
The committee undertakes an annual review of the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters whistle blowing.
This review concluded that these arrangements were satisfactory.
Nomination committee The nomination committee considers appointments to the board and meets as necessary.
The nomination committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill board vacancies and for making recommendations on board composition and balance.
The committee leads the process for making appointments to the board or where the appointee is likely to become a board member.
The committee ensures there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of directors.
The committee also ensures plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the board, and to other senior management positions.
Responsibility for making senior management appointments is vested in the Chief Executive.
The membership of these committees was as follows: Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Martin Jackson chair Roger Yates chair Jonathan Davie chair Sir Alan Budd Sir Alan Budd Sir Alan Budd Roger Yates Jonathan Davie Martin Jackson Martin Jackson Roger Yates Copies of the terms of reference of these committees can be obtained from the Company Secretary on request and are available on the Groups investor relations website.
IG Group Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report and Financial Statements 2008 29 The workings of the board and its Internal control committees continued The board of directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and reviews its effectiveness at least annually.
The system is Relations with shareholders designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not The board recognises the importance of communications with absolute assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Report and Operating and Financial Review include detailed reviews of the The effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, covering business and future developments.
There is regular dialogue with financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management institutional shareholders including presentations by management systems, is reviewed regularly by the board and the audit committee.
around the time of the Companys preliminary announcement of the The audit committee regularly receive and review reports on internal year end results and at the half year.
These presentations are made control from internal audit and quarterly reports from the compliance available from the Groups investor relations website at function.
com which also provides information to shareholders and prospective shareholders.
Feedback is provided to the board An ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the following these investor presentations of any views or concerns significant risks facing the Group is co-ordinated by the risk function expressed by shareholders.
and is reviewed regularly by the board and the audit committee.
The process has been in place for the full year under review and up to The board uses the annual general meeting to communicate with the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Groups private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
approach to the management of key risks including market, credit The chairman aims to ensure that all of the directors, including the and liquidity risks is discussed in note 30 to the financial statements.
chairmen of the remuneration and audit committees, are available at annual general meetings to answer questions.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting will be contained in Environment report the notice of the meeting.
Given the nature of the Groups business operations, the Groups Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Director, is available to meet impact on the environment is very small.
The main direct shareholders on request and to ensure that the board is aware of environmental impacts are through energy consumption and shareholder concerns not resolved through other mechanisms for business travel.
These impacts are monitored and controlled shareholder communication.
through the financial management processes energy and travel costs are approximately 1% of overall costs and, where appropriate, The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director provide feedback to opportunities to improve are sought.
the board of any views or concerns expressed to them by shareholders.
Going forward, additional information will be collected on the number of kilowatt hours KWH of energy used and business miles travelled.
This will allow the Group to calculate greenhouse gas GHG emissions for the next financial year using the emission factors developed by the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
IG Group Holdings plc 30 Report and Financial Statements 2008 Corporate Governance Attendance at board and committee meetings The number of full board meetings and committee meetings attended by each director as members of each committee during the year was as set out below.
In each case the first figure indicates the number of meetings attended and the second figure indicates the maximum number of meetings during the year for which each individual was a director or committee member.
Full board Nomination Audit Remuneration meetings committee committee committee Jonathan Davie Chairman 7 7 2 3 Tim Howkins Chief Executive 7 7 Steve Clutton 7 7 Peter Hetherington 7 7 Andrew MacKay 7 7 Sir Alan Budd 6 7 4 4 3 3 Martin Jackson 7 7 4 4 2 3 Nat le Roux 7 7 Robert Lucas 7 7 Roger Yates 7 7 4 4 3 3 Evaluation of the boards performance During the year the board carried out an evaluation of itself and its committees.
The evaluation consisted of one-to-one discussions between the Chairman and directors including meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
The results of the evaluation were discussed at a board meeting in May 2008.
The performance of the individual executive directors, other than the Chief Executive, is appraised annually by the Chief Executive, to whom they report.
The performance of the Chief Executive is appraised annually by the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director Roger Yates, taking into account the views of the executive directors, following which Roger Yates gives feedback to the Chairman.
Review of the audit committees performance During the year the audit committee reviewed its performance.
The review consisted of all members completing the Audit Committee Institutes evaluation checklist and a discussion of the results by the committee at a meeting in May 2008.
The results were reported to the board in May 2008. Review of the remuneration committees performance During the year the remuneration committee reviewed its performance.
The review consisted of all members completing an evaluation questionnaire and a discussion of the results by the committee at a meeting in May 2008.
The results were reported to the board in July 2008.
Directors subject to re-election In accordance with the Companys articles of association, the following directors retire, and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the next annual general meeting: Nat le Roux and Jonathan Davie.
