Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 Mid AW Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions Corporate Governance The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of The Board is satis ed in these circumstances not only that his corporate governance are maintained by the Group.
It supports chairmanship of both companies did not constitute a breach the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and has of Rule A.
4.3 of the Code, but that he remained able to devote reviewed its corporate governance practices in the light of the suf cient time and attention to the Companys business.
The Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 Board does not believe that the position has had any adverse and considers that it complies with section 1 of the Code.
impact on the Boards operations and is satis ed that in the Corporate governance best practice is also monitored, and circumstances it was and is appropriate for him to continue appropriate recommendations from relevant professional as Chairman.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that at each During the year the Company instructed an external review of AGM any Director who has been appointed by the Board since its corporate governance procedures and received a positive the previous AGM is required to retire and may seek re-election, report.
The training and induction programmes for Directors and together with such other Directors so as to ensure that the communication with shareholders were particularly commended.
number nearest to but not less than one third of the Directors, for the time being, stand for election or re-election.
In order to The Board comply with the provisions of Rule A.
7 of the Code, all Directors Membership are required to seek re-election at least every three years.
The Sir Adrian Montague held of ce as Chairman and Bill Coley held Companys policy was that Directors should retire at the first of ce as Chief Executive throughout the year.
The roles of the AGM after their 66th birthday.
However, the Board will seek Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct.
The Chairman is shareholder approval to remove this provision at the Companys responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of the Board, while the forthcoming AGM in order to align with the provisions of the Chief Executive directs the executive functions and is responsible Companies Act 2006 and age discrimination legislation.
for safety throughout the Group.
Stephen Billingham continued in of ce as Finance Director.
In addition to the Chairman, there Conduct of Business are currently seven further Non-Executive Directors.
Biographies The Board meets suf ciently regularly to discharge its duties of the Directors are set out on pages 32 and 33. effectively.
It is scheduled to meet eight times a year, and met eleven times during the year.
There is contact among the The Directors are satis ed that the Company complied with Directors between Board meetings as necessary to progress the sections of the Code concerning the balance of the Board the Companys business.
The Company also organises periodic throughout the year.
During the year, the number of Non-Executive executive sessions involving the non-executives, members of Directors was greater than the number of Executive Directors, the Companys senior management and external advisers to with two Executive and seven Non-Executive Directors in addition improve the Directors understanding of the business and aid to the Chairman.
Sir Adrian Montague held an executive of ce effective communication.
with British Energy plc temporarily for part of the financial year ended 31 March 2003 following his appointment as Executive Although the normal operational management of the Company Chairman in November 2002 until the appointment of a chief has been delegated to the Chief Executive, the Board has a executive in March 2003.
As Chairman he is not categorised as number of matters reserved to it, particularly, appropriate an independent director.
The other Non-Executive Directors are strategic, financial and organisational matters.
These are all considered to be independent.
The Companys independent considered at the Board meetings.
Non-Executive Directors are currently: The Board receives reports covering operational, financial, Pascal Colombani safety, risk management and regulatory performance to assist it Bob Davies in identifying key issues for the business on a regular and timely John Delucca basis.
Where appropriate, matters have been delegated to Board Ian Harley committees, all of which have written constitutions and Terms David Pryde of Reference.
Sir Robert Walmsley Robert Walvis Details of the Directors who served throughout the year are set out on pages 32 and 33 of the Annual Report.
Information The Remuneration Committee Report on pages 42 to 48 provides required under the provisions of the Companies Acts and the details of appointments to and resignations from the Board.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority regarding the Clare Spottiswoode retired at the 2007 AGM and Ian Harley took remuneration and share options of Directors, the interests of over as the Companys Senior Independent Director and Deputy the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Chairman on the same date.
Robert Walvis joined the Company Company, and Directors service contracts, is detailed in the as a Non-Executive Director in August 2007.
Remuneration Committee Report on pages 42 to 48.
The Company re-entered the FTSE 100 during the year.
Sir Adrian All of the Non-Executive Directors serving on the Board have Montague remained as Chairman and also served as Chairman held and or hold senior positions in other major organisations of Friends Provident plc, which was an existing member of the either in the UK and or internationally.
Each of them is involved FTSE 100 at the time of British Energys re-entry to the index.
in decision making on key issues facing the Group and collectively bring a wide range of experience to the Board.
34 British Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE midd.
indd 34 1 10 6 08 14:14:19 0 6 08 14:14:19 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 Mid AW Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Non-Executive Directors of the Company meet as a group Environment Committee has also been refreshed with the without Executive Directors present and from time to time also appointment of a new independent member with experience meet without the Chairman present.
in both the nuclear and oil and gas industries.
The roles of the committee and the relationships with, and expectations of, It is the Companys policy that Directors may obtain independent line management were clari ed.
Performance metrics have professional advice at the Companys expense and all Directors been re ned and clearer, more focused reporting has allowed have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary the Board to devote more time to strategic issues and and General Counsel, who is accountable to the Board through appropriate oversight.
the Chairman on all corporate governance matters.
The 2008 surveys indicated good progress in the areas of focus Performance Evaluation identi ed in the 2007 Review and satisfaction with the new All Board members have participated in structured training arrangements.
As in 2007, the survey will be followed up with sessions during the year.
These sessions included trading and one to one meetings between the Chairman and each Director market issues and strategy, legal and regulatory changes and the issues arising will be considered by the Board in autumn affecting the business: issues of interest to shareholders and 2009, informing the Board on further priorities for performance governance, risk assessment and mitigation, and stakeholder improvement.
The Board received training on the new directors duties under the Companies Act 2006.
All Board members are The Board also devoted effort to succession planning see the also expected to attend at least one meeting of the Safety, section headed Governance and Nominations Committee on Health and Environment Committee, which meets quarterly, page 37 and made good progress in this area which will and all are expected to undertake at least one external continue to be a priority.
management course relevant to British Energy in any three year period.
In addition, one Board member attended the governance Risk Management course for non-executives of nuclear companies held at Emory The Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies University Atlanta in conjunction with the Institute of Nuclear for risk and control, and management is responsible for Power Operators, and all Board members are expected to designing, operating and monitoring risk and control processes attend this annual course at some point during their term of which implement Board policies effectively.
During the year the Company further developed its the revised Turnbull Guidance, risk management and internal induction programme for Directors.
The induction programme control are considered by the Board and its committees during includes presentations and interview sessions with key the year.
Further details on the Groups present committee managers to ensure the Director has an understanding of the structure appear below.
business, including legal, governance, financial, trading and operational issues.
The induction also includes tours of the The risk management process operating throughout the year power stations and attendance at one of the Companys nuclear and up to the date of approval of the report was based on the safety culture workshops.
identi cation, mitigation and monitoring of the key risks that in uence the Companys strategy and business objectives.
Performance evaluation of the Board, Chairman and individual Directors and the effectiveness of individual Board committees The Board reviews the Groups business objectives and the and the committee structure is reviewed annually using a strategic, financial, legal and regulatory and operational risks detailed questionnaire which is completed by the Board.
and controls associated with these.
Risks reviewed by the Board include: In the 2007 Review, the Board identi ed the following areas for focus in 2007 08: strategy and the amount of time the safe operation of our plant: Board devote to strategic issues: oversight of nuclear operations security: and performance: obtaining investor feedback on Company plant condition and reliability: performance and strategy: reviewing and optimising the human performance: Board committee structures and governance arrangements: IT systems and business continuity: and succession planning.
As part of its overall performance major contracts: review the Board also instructed an independent review of the procurement of radioactive waste management services: the effectiveness of the Board, Board committees, committee the financial position of the Group: and department structures speci cally in relation to nuclear treasury and trading financial exposures including collateral: oversight of operations and nuclear governance.
changes in energy markets: policy proposals by legislative bodies in the markets in which As a result of these reviews the remit of certain Board we operate: committees and their membership has been revised.
The nuclear safety and safety regulations: and membership of the six Board committees is now exclusively commercial and environmental regulation.
non-executive and the members have been rotated to bring fresh perspectives.
The Technical Advisory Committee has Throughout the year the Companys reporting arrangements evolved into the Technical Performance Oversight Committee operated across the Groups operating subsidiaries and corporate which has oversight of the technical and operational risks facing functions, monitoring business performance against key the Company.
The membership of the Safety, Health and performance indicators and the business plan.
Risk logs British Energy Group plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE midd.
indd 35 1 10 6 08 14:14:20 0 6 08 14:14:20 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 Mid AW Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions Corporate Governance identifying business risks facing the Group as a whole, and Committee Structure particular parts of the business, were regularly considered The Chairman of each committee reports to the Board following at subsidiary and divisional level and reported to the Groups each committee meeting on decisions taken or endorsed and senior management, and mitigation plans were established makes recommendations as appropriate to the Board.
The Groups principal operating subsidiaries may delegate authority to each of the committees where the monitored internal controls and risk mitigation throughout subject of the delegation does not require Board approval.
Risks to the operation of the Groups nuclear power papers for each committee are made available to all Board stations and risk and internal control issues affecting the nuclear members, other than those for the Remuneration Committee business are reviewed by the Generation Risk Committee and by and the Governance and Nominations Committee, which are the Board of British Energy Generation Limited the Generation only circulated to independent members or as those Board, our nuclear subsidiary.
The Generation Board also reports committees may direct.
The committee structure is intended to on management and decommissioning liabilities to the Board allow the committees to scrutinise performance in more detail which, in turn, is required to approve the annual liabilities report than the Board could achieve in full session and so allows the required under the Nuclear Liabilities Funding Agreement.
The Board to focus on strategic issues to a greater extent.
Technical Performance Oversight Committee and the Safety, Health and Environment Committee, both committees of the It is the Companys policy that committees are provided with Board, monitor the management of technical and safety risks.
suf cient resources to undertake their duties.
The Company may make further changes to committee structures or roles in Risks managed by corporate functions such as Finance, due course in order to comply with further developments in Legal, HR and Information Management are reviewed by corporate governance best practice and to ensure the effective the Corporate Functions Risk Committee.
The conduct of risk and ef cient operation of those committees.
The current Terms assessment involves senior management of all the Groups of Reference for each committee are available on the Companys business units in addition to the Executive Directors.
of these assessments are summarised and reported to the Board.
These risk assessments will continue to be used as part Board Committees of the Companys evaluation of the risks it faces.
In addition, The current committee structure is described below: the Board receives half yearly reports from the Chief Risk Of cer addressing risk appetite, effectiveness of risk mitigation and Audit Committee priorities for risk management.
The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Ian Harley is Chairman and financial Electricity Trading Risk Management expert and John Delucca is Deputy Chairman of the committee.
Electricity trading activities predominantly relate to supporting The remaining members of the committee are identi ed on the generation business.
Our trading department therefore acts page 39.
The committee has the primary purpose of assisting as our wholesale marketer rather than as a financial trader, with the Board in overseeing the integrity of the Companys financial the principal objective of increasing the return on assets while statements, and the Companys compliance with legal and managing the market risk including the risks relating to collateral regulatory requirements.
The committee is also responsible for requirements associated with the output of the power stations.
considering and recommending appropriate accounting policies for the Group, reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of Under the British Electricity Transmission and Trading internal control and compliance procedures within the Group Arrangements BETTA, which took effect from 1 April 2005, and ensuring that it complies with all statutory requirements any mismatch between actual metered generation or demand in relation to the principles, policies and practices adopted in and the noti ed contract position is settled through the balancing the preparation of the financial statements.
The committee mechanism at generally unfavourable prices.
The Company aims reviewed risk management processes across the Group to manage its portfolio of xed price contracts and minimise including actions to mitigate or control key risks facing the exposure to the balancing mechanism and short-term electricity Group.
The committee receives reports from both external and prices.
The risks in the wholesale market are managed through a internal auditors in relation to matters arising from their work contracting strategy that builds a portfolio of forward contracts.
and is also responsible for encouraging and monitoring the adoption of best practice in corporate governance.
Trading risks are reviewed by management through the Trading Risk Standing Committee and the Power and Energy Trading The committee receives reports periodically from the Chief Risk BEPET Board.
The Commercial Risk Committee, a committee Of cer and the Commercial Risk Committee.
The committee of the Board, monitors hedging and risk management strategy reviews the scope and results of the external audit including the for trading as well as non-technical risks facing the Group to auditors cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity, and is ensure that activities are conducted within overall limits.
responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation Additional control is provided through delegated authorities, to the appointment and independence of the external auditors which form part of an overall energy trading risk management and their remuneration.
It also reviews the nature and extent of policy.
Clearly fide ned limits are established and monitored for the non-audit services provided by the external auditors to the financial headroom risk, market risk, credit risk and collateral Group to ensure that these are appropriate, and that a balance exposure to trading and financial counterparties.
Any breaches of objectivity and value for money is maintained.
The committee would be reported to the Board.
normally meets the day prior to Board meetings and otherwise as required by the business of the Company.
The committee met 36 British Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE midd.
indd 36 1 10 6 08 14:14:20 0 6 08 14:14:20 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 Mid AW Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE nine times during the year.
In the course of these meetings, the year it considered reports from internal audit on internal the committee considered the following matters: control issues and a year-end report from the internal control and financial processes team summarising the outcome from Financial Reporting their testing activity.
The committee also sought the views of The committee reviewed the annual audited financial the external auditors in making its assessment of the internal statements, quarterly financial statements and investor control environment.
presentations before recommending their publication to the Board.
It discussed with the Finance Director and external Internal Audit auditors the Companys compliance with financial reporting The committee received reports from internal audit at each of and governance standards and reviewed signi cant accounting its meetings including quality reports on the reviews conducted policies, changes to them and any signi cant financial estimates by the internal audit team.
The Chairman of the committee and judgements applied in their preparation.
It also received meets with the Head of Internal Audit regularly to discuss reports on due diligence on proposed statements from the current issues and the whole committee held five private Disclosure Committee and reviewed managements going sessions with the Head of Internal Audit during the year.
concern analysis on a quarterly basis.
The committee commissioned an external review of the External Audit effectiveness of the internal audit function in September 2006 The committee has direct responsibility for the appointment, and the outcome was considered by the committee in compensation, retention and oversight of external auditors and May 2007.
The review concluded that the internal audit function approves their terms of engagement.
It reviews and monitors is effective, generally highly regarded, technically competent, the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and objective, responsive, professional and adequately resourced.
managements responsiveness to external audit findings and Actions arising relating to improving coverage relationships recommendations.
The committee pre-approves all auditing in trading: addressing resourcing constraints and working on services and permitted non-audit services undertaken by the communications in speci c areas have all been progressed external auditors to ensure the appropriateness of the work during 2007 08. and value for money.
The Board has approved policies covering the provision of non-audit services, which are designed to Commercial Risk Committee ensure that such services do not impair the external auditors The Risk Review Committee was renamed the Commercial independence or objectivity.
The policies include procedures to Risk Committee during the year and its terms of reference examine the relationships between the Company, the auditors and membership were revised.
It is now comprised entirely and assurances on the interests of the auditors staff in order of Non-Executive Directors as identi ed on page 39 and is to ensure independence is maintained.
The policies set out chaired by Robert Walvis.
Its remit is to review the processes the approval requirements for speci c categories of work and for the identi cation, mitigation and management of risks require justi cation as to why non-audit work should be placed other than technical risks which are reviewed by the with the auditors rather than another rm, on grounds of best Technical Performance Oversight Committee and the control value or con dentiality.
The fees recharged to a third party procedures to minimise them.
It also advises on risk appetite.
which are disclosed in note 5 to the Financial Statements The committee receives regular reports from the Chief Risk were justi ed on grounds of con dentiality and synergy with Of cer, the Head of Trading Risk, the Head of Regulation and concurrent audit work.
the Trading Risk Standing Committee on risk and compliance matters.
It is advised of any material policy or authority limit The committee recommended that the Board present breaches and ensures that management action is a resolution to shareholders at the 2008 AGM for the commensurate to address issues arising.
reappointment of the external auditors.
This followed an assessment of the quality of service provided, auditor During 2007 08 the committee received regular updates on independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
the trading environment and the Groups contracting strategy and collateral and headroom management.
Other areas of Whistleblowing focus were business continuity planning, disaster recovery, The committee is responsible for the company policy on information technology, the arrangements for uranium con dential reporting of serious concerns and oversees its procurement, compliance with prudent trading policies and effectiveness.
The committee considered quarterly reports undertakings to HM Government: controls in the gas, oil, summarising concerns reported and the outcome of any power trading business: the structure of risk control in the investigatory work.
Group: and non-technical risk management and mitigation.
The Commercial Risk Committee met seven times during the year.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system Governance and Nominations Committee of internal controls, including financial, operational and The Governance and Nominations Committee is comprised compliance controls and risk management.
The committee entirely of Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Sir Robert has ongoing arrangements designed to assist the Board in the Walmsley.
The committee is responsible for encouraging and performance of this responsibility and periodically reports to monitoring the adoption of good corporate governance practice.
the Board on controls and risk management.
Accordingly, during It reviews the Companys code of conduct and ethics and British Energy Group plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE midd.
indd 37 1 10 6 08 14:14:20 0 6 08 14:14:20 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 Mid AW Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions Corporate Governance compliance with this code and the Companys legal obligations technical nature referred to it relating to the performance generally.
The committee also reviews the corporate social of, and improvements to, British Energys nuclear eet.
The responsibility performance of the Group and advises the Board committee considers and advises on technical and operational in relation to senior appointments throughout the Group.
Board issues and signi cant management of change issues facing the appointments recommended by the committee are made after nuclear generation business.
Members of the Generation Board an appropriate search and selection process has been undertaken continue to have responsibility for, and direct, the operational including, where appropriate, the use of external advisers to and safety policy of British Energys nuclear operations.
During 2007 08 the committee reviewed the business plan During the year the committee reviewed the results of the priorities for the generation business including outage and Board performance and nuclear oversight reviews and considered equipment reliability improvement plans.
The technical issues what action should be taken to address the issues identi ed: dominating the year were the boiler issues at Hunterston B and the terms of reference for the Board Committees were reviewed Hinkley Point B, the periodic safety reviews of these stations, the as part of this exercise.
Considerable time was devoted to Board boiler closure units at Hartlepool and Heysham 1, the prospects succession, particularly to identifying an appropriate successor for life extension and planning for output recovery and all these to Clare Spottiswoode who stepped down as Senior Non-Executive issues were reviewed.
The committee received regular reports Director and Deputy Chairman in July 2007.
As a result Robert on the technical risk pro le of the Company and considered how Walvis was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in August 2007 the issues identi ed were being managed and mitigated.
The and Ian Harley became Senior Non-Executive Director and Deputy committee normally meets the day prior to a Board meeting and Chairman with effect from the 2007 AGM.
The Governance and met five times during the year.
Nominations Committee met five times during the year.
Other Committees Remuneration Committee Finance and Policy Committee The Remuneration Committee Report containing details of the The Finance and Policy Committee is a management committee activities of the Remuneration Committee appears on pages 42 chaired by Bill Coley and includes Stephen Billingham, Robert to 48.
Armour, Company Secretary and General Counsel, and Jim Meechan, HR Director, as members.
The Finance and Policy Committee meets Safety, Health and Environment Committee frequently and maintains scrutiny of the corporate business of The Safety, Health and Environment Committee provides the Group and, in particular, cross business issues including advice to the Board in relation to the health and safety of staff, Finance, Human Resources, Strategy, Information Management, contractors, visitors and the general public, plant safety and the Corporate Affairs, Internal Audit and Risk functions and areas not environmental performance of the Group.
It reviews key safety falling under remit of the Generation Board or the BEPET Board.
and environmental risks affecting the Groups business and the actions taken to mitigate or control them.
It is chaired by David Management Committees and Subsidiary Boards Pryde and also includes three independent experts as well as Throughout the year a number of management committees certain other Non-Executive Directors identi ed on page 39. and subsidiary boards were used to assist the Directors in Two meetings in each year are held at one of the power stations controlling the business.
These included the Generation Board, with the station director and site safety representatives in which directs operational and safety policy in the Groups attendance to consider both site-speci c and generic issues.
nuclear operations, the BEPET Board, which reviews the operational performance strategy and controls in the power During 2007 08 the committee received regular updates trading business, and the Eggborough Power Limited Board, on the Groups safety and environmental performance.
Over which oversees operational and safety policy for the the year the Company focused on efforts to improve human Eggborough coalred power station.
performance and knowledge of nuclear safety and the committee considered the actions taken and the Companys Management Risk Committees progress against key performance indicators.
In addition the The Trading Risk Standing Committee meets monthly to review committee reviewed the Companys approach to safety, the identi cation and management of risks to the trading business.
including radiation dose and contractor management on the It is chaired by the Chief Risk Of cer and reports top risks to the BCU Project.
The Safety, Health and Environment Committee BEPET Board and the Commercial Risk Committee quarterly.
met four times during the year.
The BEGEN Risk Committee meets quarterly to review the identi cation and management of risks to the generation business.
Technical Performance Oversight Committee It is chaired by the Head of Asset Planning and Investment and The Technical Advisory Committee was renamed the Technical reports top risks to the Generation Board and the Boards Technical Performance Oversight Committee during the year and its Performance Oversight Committee quarterly.
The Corporate terms of reference and membership were reviewed.
The Functions Risk Committee meets quarterly to review the committee is chaired by Pascal Colombani.
The committee identi cation and management of risks to the activities of also includes senior managers with technical expertise.
The corporate functions such as Finance, Legal, Human Resources and remaining members of the committee are identi ed on page 39.
It is chaired by the Chief Risk Of cer and The committee considers and advises the Board on issues of a reports top risks to the Finance and Policy Committee quarterly.
38 British Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE midd.
indd 38 1 10 6 08 14:14:21 0 6 08 14:14:21 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 Mid AW Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Pensions Committee The Pensions Committee is a management committee which monitors the management of the two Group Pension Schemes.
It is chaired by the HR Director.
Certain other Directors and senior managers of the Group are members.
The Pensions Committee reviews and advises on the policies being adopted by the Trustees of the British Energy Generation Group and the British Energy Combined Group Pension Schemes and is responsible for advising the Board and reporting to the Remuneration Committee on matters relating to these Schemes.
The Pensions Committee met five times during the year.
Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee is a management committee which reviews the accuracy and completeness of the Companys proposed financial and certain other public statements and or reports.
It is chaired by the Deputy Finance Director, and comprises management level representatives of operational and corporate departments from throughout the Group.
The Disclosure Committee reports to the Audit Committee and met seven times during the year.
Board Attendance The attendance of Directors at Board and committee meetings of those committees of which they are members in the year is set out in the tables below.
The membership of the committees changed in January 2008, and attendances are therefore shown separately for the period from April 2007 to December 2007 and January 2008 to March 2008.
Non-Executive Directors commonly attend meetings of committees of which they are not formally members, but these attendances are not shown in the tables: Board attendance April 2007 to December 2007 Governance Safety, Technical and Commercial Health and Performance Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk Environment Oversight Board# Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee [8] [7] [5] [7] [5] [2] [3] Sir Adrian Montague 8 5 Bill Coley 8 3 3 Stephen Billingham 8 5 Pascal Colombani 7 5 7 3 Bob Davies 8 5 7 John Delucca 7 7 4 4 Ian Harley 7 7 5 5 David Pryde 8 7 5 7 5 1 Clare Spottiswoode 5 2 4 1 Sir Robert Walmsley 8 6 5 7 2 3 2 Robert Walvis 2 Board attendance January 2008 to March 2008 Governance Safety, Technical and Commercial Health and Performance Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk Environment Oversight Board# Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee [3] [2] [0] [2] [2] [2] [2] Sir Adrian Montague 3 Bill Coley 3 Stephen Billingham 3 Pascal Colombani 3 2 2 1 2 Bob Davies 3 2 2 2 John Delucca 3 2 2 2 Ian Harley 3 2 2 1 David Pryde 3 2 2 2 2 Sir Robert Walmsley 3 2 2 2 Robert Walvis 3 2 2 2 2 Figures in brackets refer to the total number of Board or committee meetings during the year.
# In addition, delegated special committees of the Board meet from time to time for the purposes of considering speci c items of business.
1 Clare Spottiswoode retired at the AGM in July 2007, the attendances shown therefore do not represent a full year.
2 Robert Walvis was appointed in August 2007, the attendances shown therefore do not represent a full year.
British Energy Group plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE midd.
indd 39 1 10 6 08 14:14:21 0 6 08 14:14:21 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 Mid AW Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions Corporate Governance Organisational Structure the Audit Committee.
The scope of work, authority and resources There are clearly fide ned lines of accountability throughout of the internal audit function are reviewed by the Audit the Group.
These include strict authorisation approval and Committee at least annually.
The role of the internal audit control procedures within which senior management operate.
function is discussed further below.
Similarly, the senior management team within each subsidiary or division is responsible for its internal financial controls.
Steps are being taken to embed internal controls and risk Those management teams operate within an overall framework management further into the operations of the business and determined by the Board.
to explore areas of improvement which come to management and the Boards attention.
Although the Company is no longer External Non-Executive Directorships bound by the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act it has sought We permit the Chief Executive to retain certain external to retain the revised arrangements which were implemented non-executive directorships provided they do not cause a to meet the Acts requirements.
A more streamlined and con ict or inhibit his ability to work for the Company.
Each such risk-based approach has now been established and to support appointment including the details of emoluments is subject this change, a self-certi cation process was adopted in 2007 08. to Board approval.
Details of such fees are included on page 45.
Testing and certi cation of key financial controls has been performed at divisional level with central co-ordination by Investment Approval Finance and independent oversight performed by Internal The approval of capital and revenue schemes above certain Audit.
As part of this process, management has been limits is reserved to the Board.
Other investment decisions are encouraged to explore opportunities for improvement which delegated for approval in accordance with authority limits.
The may come to their attention.
This self-certi cation process Group has comprehensive appraisal and monitoring procedures will continue to be embedded and re ned during 2008 09. which apply to all material investment decisions.
Internal Audit Business Planning The Groups internal audit function provides independent A comprehensive business planning and budgeting process assurance that the risk management processes in place across to establish plans and targets, against which performance the Group are of sound design and are operating as intended.
is regularly monitored, is undertaken each year.
Key business Evaluation of the adequacy of the framework of controls in risks are reviewed regularly throughout the year and inform place to mitigate risks to an acceptable level is conducted as investment prioritisation in the business plan.
The Board part of that assurance.
Within its scope, the function examines receives monthly reports and management accounts and the Groups controls and procedures and attempts to identify reviews the overall Group performance against budget any potential best practices weaknesses within the systems.
and the latest forecasts for the current year.
Similarly, each subsidiary and divisional management team meets regularly Internal audit work follows an annually developed risk-based to monitor performance.
plan which is agreed by the Audit Committee and encompasses all areas of the Group.
Development of the annual plan is based Internal Compliance and Control on a range of information sources, including review of corporate The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal risk log information and discussion with key management controls and reviewing its effectiveness.
The identi cation across the Group to understand their view of risks and priorities.
of key business risks, the evaluation of their financial and In addition to the approved plan the function responds to nonfinancial implications and formulation of policies to emerging risks and issues arising within the year as appropriate manage such risks is the responsibility of the Directors.
or at the request of management and the Audit Committee.
This system is designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can provide only reasonable and not An external review of the internal audit function was absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
undertaken in late 2006 07 which gave an overall view that the function is effective at providing independent assurance The Board assessed the effectiveness of the Companys internal to the Board in relation to the internal control environment controls as of the date of this report.
In making this assessment, in the Group.
The review identi ed a number of actions and the Companys management used the criteria set forth by the recommendations to enhance current arrangements which Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway were built into a structured plan and delivered in 2007 08.
This Commission COSO in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
exercise will be repeated on at least a five year cycle to continue to independently assess the function and identify opportunities Compliance with the Groups internal financial, risk management for ongoing development.
and other controls is monitored by a number of methods including management reviews and self-certi cation reports To ensure independence of the internal audit function, the Head from Directors and senior of cers of each of the key subsidiaries of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee.
The Groups internal audit function is responsible for The Audit Committee considered the scope of internal audits providing assurance on the performance of the internal financial work, its plans for the year and resources in May 2007. and risk management control system and computer operations Subsequent changes to the plan were communicated throughout and reports regularly to the Audit Committee.
Internal audit work the year to the Audit Committee, and the results of the years is focused on the areas of highest risk as agreed and prioritised by work were presented to the Audit Committee at the year end.
40 British Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE midd.
indd 40 1 10 6 08 14:14:22 0 6 08 14:14:22 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 Mid AW Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Five routine private sessions were held between the members each Director has taken all the steps a Director might of the Audit Committee and the Head of Internal Audit.
reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are Corporate Social Responsibility aware of that information.
The Company will shortly publish a separate Corporate Social Responsibility Report for 2007 08 on its website.
This will Statement of Directors Responsibility include details of the Groups record on safety and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report environmental performance.
A summary of the Companys and the Group financial statements in accordance with approach to Corporate Social Responsibility is contained on applicable law and regulations.
Our 2006 07 Corporate Social Responsibility Report is available on the Companys website.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position Con dential Reporting of Serious Concerns and performance of the Group and give a true and fair view The Company operates a procedure to allow staff to raise of the state of affairs of the Company for that year.
serious concerns, suspicions of fraud or money laundering, suspicious accounting treatment or practices, and any other In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: suspicious, unsafe or non-compliant activity which an employee may observe on a con dential basis.
In relation to allegations select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of serious fraud this procedure involves direct referral to an consistently: external independent organisation which will record concerns make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and and determine the appropriate person to investigate them and prudent: recommend any action required to address resulting issues.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed: and Communication with Shareholders prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis The Company recognises the importance of maintaining an unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and ongoing relationship with its shareholders and stakeholders.
Company will continue in business.
It intends to use its AGM on 17 July 2008 as an opportunity to communicate with shareholders.
It is the Companys policy The Directors con rm that they have complied with the above that all Directors are available to answer shareholders requirements in preparing the financial statements.
In addition, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Finance The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Director and the Senior Independent Director will meet with the records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Companys principal shareholders on request to discuss relevant financial position of the Group and the Company.
This enables issues when they arise.
The Company seeks to ensure that the them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Directors, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, develop Companies Act 1985 in respect of the Group and the Company an understanding of the views of major shareholders through and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation in respect of the Group.
They various routes including meetings and analysts or brokers are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company brie ngs.
The Chairman has met with a number of institutional and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the shareholders during the year.
The Company Secretarys of ce prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
responds to numerous letters from shareholders on various issues throughout the year.
Information sent to shareholders The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity and copies of all Company announcements are made available of the Companys website.
The information published on the on the Companys website.
website has been prepared under United Kingdom company law and may not be in accordance with legal requirements of other The notice of British Energy Group plcs AGM last year held countries from which the information can be accessed.
on 19 July 2007, was dispatched to shareholders not less than 20 working days before the meeting and details of proxy Going Concern votes received were made available in accordance with the The Board considers it appropriate to prepare these consolidated recommendations of the Code.
financial statements and parent company financial statements on a going concern basis because, having reviewed the Groups Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information cash ow position and outlook, the Directors have a reasonable to Auditors expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future as approving the Directors Report are listed on pages 32 and 33. a going concern.
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the auditors, each of these Directors con rms that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their Report of which the auditors are unaware: and Robert Armour Company Secretary British Energy Group plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE midd.
