CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION The Company applies the Combined Code of Corporate Governance, as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in 2006.
The Company has always been committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance which is appropriate for the Company and enables it to comply with the Combined Code.
THE BOARD Composition The Board consists of five non-executive directors including the Chairman.
Mr Bernays and Mr Niven were appointed as directors of the Company upon its incorporation.
Dr Arnott was appointed as a director by the Board on 8 January 2002.
Mr Brown was appointed as a director by the Board on 31 January 2002 and Mr Berry was appointed by the Board on 1 October 2007.
All directors have served during the entire period since their appointment.
The Board believes that its composition is appropriate for an investment company of this nature and size.
All the directors are independent of the investment manager.
The directors have a broad range of relevant experience to meet the Companys requirements and their biographies are given below.
Richard Bernays Chairman, aged 66 Mr Bernays is chairman of Gartmore Global Trust plc and Throgmorton Trust plc and a director of Charter Pan-European Trust plc.
Mr Bernays retired in March 2001 from the post of chief executive of Old Mutual International after 30 years in the financial services industry.
Following a number of years in advertising, Richard Bernays joined Mercury Asset Management in 1971 and was responsible for the establishment and development of its unit trust arm from 1975 to 1985.
He was vice chairman of Mercury Asset Management from 1987 to 1991 when he left to become chief executive of Hill Samuel Asset Management.
He joined Old Mutual International in 1998.
He is also a director of WNS Group, a New York Stock Exchange listed company.
Dr Robert Arnott aged 51 Following a D. Phil.
in geology he joined Shell International in 1983 and worked in exploration and as an economist for Shell Expro.
In 1991 he joined Hoare Govett as an oil analyst, and subsequently worked for UBS Warburg, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
In October 2000 he joined HSBC Investment Bank plc as head of Global Energy Equity Research.
In December 2001 Dr Arnott joined the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies where he is currently a Senior Research Adviser.
Dr Arnott has written two books on the valuation of oil and gas companies.
On 15 September 2008 he was appointed as chief executive officer of Edgo Energy Limited.
Bill Brown aged 46 Mr Brown is a founder and partner of Bluehone Investors, a specialist smaller companies investment boutique.
He has been involved in the fund management sector since 1988, initially as a venture capitalist, and since 1995 has specialised in small publicly traded companies.
He was responsible for the launch of four investment trusts including Active Capital Trust plc of which he remains manager.
Mr Brown is a member of the AIM Advisory Group of the London Stock Exchange.
Keith Niven aged 60 Mr Niven retired from Schroder Investment Management Limited SIM in October 2001.
He joined Schroders in 1973 and was appointed a director of SIM, its fund management arm, in 1985.
Mr Niven held a number of posts in SIM, becoming joint vice chairman in 2000.
He is non-executive chairman of Matrix Income & Growth VCT PLC and Matrix Income & Growth 3 VCT PLC and a non-executive director of three other investment trusts: Schroder Income 23 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Growth Fund plc, Schroder UK Growth Fund plc and Advance UK Trust plc.
Mr Niven is also an investment adviser to the Rolls Royce Pension Fund.
Charles Berry, aged 56 Mr Berry was appointed with effect from 1 October 2007.
He is Chairman of eaga plc and Drax Group plc.
He is also a non-executive director of the Securities Trust of Scotland plc.
Until September 2005 he was a Director of Scottish Power plc responsible for the UK energy businesses of Generation, Energy Management and Supply.
He joined Scottish Power in November 1991 and was appointed to the Board in April 1999.
Prior to joining Scottish Power, he was Group Development Director of Norwest Holst, a subsidiary of Compagnie Gnral des Eaux, and prior to that held management positions within subsidiaries of Pilkington plc.
He holds a BSc First Class Hons in Electrical Engineering from the University of Glasgow and a Masters Degree in Management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mr Bernays and Mr Niven will retire by rotation and will offer themselves for re-election.
The Board confirms that the performance of Mr Bernays and Mr Niven was formally considered during the year.
The evaluation concluded that they are effective in their roles and make significant contributions to the Boards decision evaluation process.
The Board therefore recommends them for re-appointment.
The directors have appointment letters which do not state any specific term.
They are subject to reelection by shareholders at a maximum interval of three years.
Copies of the appointment letters are available on request from the Company Secretary.
A policy of insurance against directors and officers liabilities is maintained by the Company.
A procedure has been adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Regular Board meetings were held quarterly during the year ended 31 December 2008.
Dr Arnott, Mr Niven and Mr Berry attended all four of those meetings.
Mr Bernays and Mr Brown attended three meetings.
There were three other meetings to deal with the issue of new shares.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board decides upon the membership and chairmanship of its committees.
Other advisers or persons may be invited to attend those committee meetings.
Audit Committee All the directors except the Chairman of the Company are members of this committee.
The Audit Committee meets formally at least twice a year for the purpose, amongst other things, of considering the appointment, independence and objectivity, and remuneration of the auditors and to review the annual accounts and half yearly financial report.
Where non-audit services are provided by the auditors, full consideration of the financial and other implications on the independence of the auditors arising from any such engagement are considered before proceeding.
The Audit Committee has considered the non audit work of the auditors this year and does not consider this compromises their independence.
Mr Niven is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has formal written terms of reference and copies of these are available on request from the Company Secretary.
All members of the audit committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee has considered the need for an internal audit function and considers that this is not appropriate given the nature and circumstances of the Company.
24 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED There were two Audit Committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2008.
Mr Niven, Dr Arnott and Mr Berry attended both meetings.
Mr Brown attended one meeting.
Remuneration and Management Engagement Committee All the directors are members of this committee.
The Remuneration and Management Engagement Committee meets formally on at least an annual basis for the purpose, amongst other things, of considering the appointment and remuneration of the investment manager and of suppliers of services to the Company, as well as the fees of non-executive directors.
Dr Arnott is the chairman of the Remuneration and Management Engagement Committee.
The Remuneration and Management Engagement Committee has formal terms of reference and copies of these are available on request from the Company Secretary.
A directors remuneration report is included on pages 28 and 29 of these financial statements.
There was one meeting of the Remuneration and Management Engagement Committee during the year ended 31 December 2008.
The meeting was attended by all the committee members.
Nominations Committee All the directors are members of this committee.
The Nominations Committee has been established for the purpose of identifying and putting forward candidates for the office of director of the Company.
The Nominations Committee meets as and when it is required.
Mr Brown is chairman of the Nominations Committee.
New appointments to the Board are referred to the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee considers job specifications and will assess whether candidates have the necessary skills and time available to devote to the job.
There were no meetings of the Nominations Committee during the year ended 31 December 2008.
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL A formal annual performance appraisal process is performed on the Board, the committees, the individual directors and its main service providers.
A programme consisting of open and closed ended questions is used as the basis for the appraisals.
The results are reviewed by the Chairman and are then discussed with the Board so that any necessary action can be considered and undertaken.
A separate appraisal of the Chairman is carried out and the results are reviewed by Dr Arnott and reported back to the Chairman.
The results of the performance appraisal carried out in 2008 were positive and demonstrated that the composition of the Board was in keeping with the Companys objectives and that the directors showed the necessary commitment for the fulfilment of their duties.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Combined Code requires the Board to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
The Board recognises its ultimate responsibility for the Companys system of internal controls and for monitoring its effectiveness.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has undertaken a review of the aspects covered by the guidance and has identified risk management controls in the key areas of business objectives, accounting, compliance, operations and secretarial as being matters of particular importance upon which it requires reports.
The Board believes that the existing arrangements, set out below, represent an appropriate framework to meet the internal control 25 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC C CO OR RP PO OR RA AT TE E G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E C CO ON NT TIIN NU UE ED D requirements.
By these procedures the directors have kept under review the effectiveness of the internal control system throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, including the investment manager, the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration services and the accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration of the quality and cost of services offered, including the financial control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Financial aspects of internal control The directors are responsible for the internal financial control systems of the Company and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These aim to ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records, the reliability of the financial information upon which business decisions are made and which is used for publication and that the assets of the Company are safeguarded.
As stated above, the Board has contractually delegated to external agencies the services the Company requires, but they are fully informed of the internal control framework established by the investment manager and the administrator to provide reasonable assurance on the effectiveness of internal financial controls.
The key procedures include monthly production of management accounts and NAV calculations, monitoring of performance at regular board meetings, supervision by directors of the valuation of securities, segregation of the administrative function from that of securities and cash custody and of both from investment management, maintenance of appropriate insurance and adherence to physical and computer security procedures.
In addition, the Board keeps under its own direct control all material payments out of the Company other than for investment purposes.
Payment of management and administration fees is only authorised by directors after they have studied the financial data upon which those fees are based.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the accounts is on page 30 and a Statement of Going Concern is on page 22.
The Report of the Independent Auditors is on pages 31 and 32.
Other aspects of internal control The Board holds at least four regular meetings each year, plus additional meetings as required.
Between these meetings there is regular contact with the investment manager and the administrator.
The Manager reports in writing to the Board on operational and compliance issues prior to each meeting, and otherwise as necessary.
The managers compliance officer issues his own report directly to the Audit Committee concerning the internal controls applicable to the managers dealing, investment and general office procedures.
Directors receive and consider regular monthly reports from the administrator, giving full details of all holdings in the portfolio and of all transactions and of all aspects of the financial position of the Company.
The administrator reports separately in writing to the Board concerning risks and internal control matters within its purview, including internal financial control procedures and secretarial matters.
Additional ad hoc reports are received as required and directors have access at all times to the advice and services of the Corporate Company Secretary, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
26 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC C CO OR RP PO OR RA AT TE E G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E C CO ON NT TIIN NU UE ED D This contact with the Manager and the administrator enables the Board to monitor the Companys progress towards its objectives and encompasses an analysis of the risks involved.
These matters are assessed on an ongoing basis through the year and again, formally, at year end.
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS The Company welcomes all shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting and seeks to provide twenty working days notice of that meeting.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the AGM and any item not of an entirely routine nature is explained in the Directors Report.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
The investment manager has a programme of meetings with shareholders and reports back to the Board on its findings.
The Board also welcome feedback from the shareholders directly to them.
EXERCISE OF VOTING POWERS The Company does not automatically follow a fixed policy always to vote on its holdings, but each case is treated on its merits having considered all the relevant information.
The Company is opposed to mechanistic box ticking approaches to corporate governance.
SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY The Company has no staff, premises, manufacturing or other operations.
The Company only invests in companies which contribute to the cleaner or more efficient delivery of basic services of energy, water and waste.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE The Board considers that it has applied the Combined Code appropriately to the Companys circumstances.
Notwithstanding this, departures from the code together with reasons are detailed below.
The structure of the Board is such that it is considered unnecessary to identify a senior non-executive director other than the Chairman.
All other directors are, however, available to shareholders if they have concerns over issues that they feel have not been dealt with through the normal mode of communication with the Chairman.
Breach of Combined Code rule A 3.3 27 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC
