In March 2008, Mr McWilliam was appointed as our been in full compliance with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code except Group Director of Corporate Affairs.
This role includes responsibility for our Corporate for the requirements that a CEO should not go on to be the chairman of the same Communications, Policy and Public Affairs, Internal Communications, and Reputation company and that, on appointment, the chairman should meet the independence and Responsibility functions.
requirements set out in provision A.
The Combined Code states that if exceptionally a board decides that a CEO should become chairman, the David Rowe joined us in July 2007 as Managing Director, Enterprise Business and is board should consult major shareholders in advance and explain its reasons to responsible for our business-to-business services across both television and telecoms.
On 6 December 2007, James Murdoch relinquished the position of CEO Mr Rowe was CEO of Easynet Group plc until it became part of Sky in January 2007.
In and was appointed Chairman of the Company, with effect from 7 December 2007, in November 2007, Mr Rowes role was expanded to include overall responsibility for Sky place of Rupert Murdoch following consultation with major shareholders in accordance Bet.
with the requirements of the Combined Code.
The Board is aware of the Combined Codes requirements with respect to independence and considers that it is strongly Brian Sullivan joined us in February 1996 as Subscriber Marketing Manager and has represented by Independent Directors.
Furthermore, the Board was unanimous in its held a variety of roles within sales and marketing over the last 10 years.
In November decision that the appointment is in the best interests of the Company and its 2007, Mr Sullivan was appointed as Managing Director, Customer Group with shareholders given Mr Murdochs deep knowledge and understanding of the strategic responsibility for marketing strategy, product development and management, sales, issues facing the Company and the industries in which it operates, his commitment to retention, service and eld operations, as well as overall customer growth.
the Company, and the continuity it provides.
Mr Murdoch is also Executive Chairman and Chief Executive of News Corporation in Europe and Asia.
Sophie Turner Laing joined us in March 2003 as Director of Film Channels & Acquisitions.
In 2004 she was appointed Deputy Managing Director, Sky Channels and The Company, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the New Services.
In March 2008 she was appointed Managing Director, Entertainment with York Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant ways in which its overall responsibility for the multi-platform content strategy for Skys wholly-owned corporate governance practices differ from the NYSEs corporate governance listing entertainment channels.
Furthermore, the Company must comply fully with the provisions of the NYSE listing standards which relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation Vic Wakeling joined us in 1991 as Head of Football, taking over as Head of Sport in of audit committees.
These provisions also incorporate certain rules concerning audit January 1994.
In August 1998, he was appointed Managing Director, Sky Sports and in committees implemented by the SEC and the NYSE under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act December 2007 his role was expanded to include overall responsibility for Sky News.
Alun Webber joined us in 1995 and was part of the core team which launched Sky The Company has reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and believes that its corporate Digital, and established the Sky Interactive venture.
In April 2002, he was appointed governance practices are consistent with the standards, with the following exception.
Group Director of Engineering and Platform Technology.
In July 2006, Mr Webber was The standards state that companies must have a nominating corporate governance appointed Group Director of Strategic Project Delivery.
Mr Webber was appointed committee composed entirely of independent directors.
The Companys Corporate Managing Director of Amstrad Plc in January 2008.
Governance and Nominations Committee ismadeupofamajority of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
There is no arrangement or understanding between any of the above listed persons and any other person pursuant to which he or she was elected as a Director or Senior Corporate policies Executive.
The policies of the Group aim to enhance and maintain risk management, and through this, safeguard the efficiency and effectiveness of the Group.
Other policies are Employees committed to improving equality in the workplace, share dealing, work practices on The average monthly number of full-time equivalent persons including temporary and off-site, and social arrangements.
Copies are readily available to all staff on the employees employed by us during the previous three scal years was as follows: intranet.
2008 2007 2006 Since 2003, the Company has adopted a Code of Ethics which applies to the number number number Companys CEO and CFO, who also serves as the principal accounting officer.
Policies on 14,145 13,087 11,216 Social, Environmental and Ethical Performance can be found in the corporate responsibility section of the review of the business on page 18.
Employment policies Details of the Groups employees, together with statements of policy on equality of The Board opportunity, disabled persons, employee involvement and communication, training and The Board currently comprises fifteen Directors, made up of two Executive Directors development, health and safety and financial participation are provided in the people and thirteen Non-Executive Directors.
A majority of nine Non-Executive Directors are section of the review of the business on pages 18 to 19. determined to be independent in compliance with the Combined Code.
They bring a wide range of experience and expertise to the Groups affairs, and carry significant weight in the Boards decisions.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors provide a Corporate governance report strong independent element and a foundation for good corporate governance.
Short The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance in biographies of each of the Directors are set out on pages 39 to 40.
The table on its management of the Group and when accounting to shareholders.
The management page 39 identies those Directors who are, in the view of the Board, independent of the Company values an effective long-term outlook and sees itself as responsible to within the meaning of the Combined Code.
Prior to appointment, and on an annual the wider range of stakeholders, whilst being accountable for the pursuit of its basis, each board member receives and completes a questionnaire to determine objectives primarily for the benefit of the Companys owners.
factors that may affect independence according to the Combined Code, NYSE Corporate Governance Rules and Rule 10A-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as This section of the Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the Code of amended the Exchange Act.
The responses to the questionnaire assist the Board in Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code of corporate governance of ascertaining whether a Director is independent in character and judgement, and 2006 Combined Code.
service agreement or Commencement date letter of appointment The Company recognises that all Directors are equally and collectively accountable v Chase Carey 13 February 2003 30 October 2009 under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Company iv David DeVoe 15 December 1994 26 September 2008 maintains a directors and ofcers liability insurance policy which meets defence costs ii David Evans 21 September 2001 26 September 2008 when the Director is not proved to have acted fraudulently.
v Nicholas Ferguson 15 June 2004 30 October 2009 Andrew Higginson 1 September 2004 November 2010 Executive Directors are not allowed to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 ii Allan Leighton 15 October 1999 26 September 2008 company, but are allowed to take up one external non-executive FTSE 100 v Jacques Nasser 8 November 2002 30 October 2009 appointment and retain any payments in respect of this appointment.
ii James Murdoch 7 December 2007 26 September 2008 Gail Rebuck 8 November 2002 November 2010 The roles of the Chairman and CEO, are separate and the roles have been since the i Daniel Rimer 7 April 2008 26 September 2008 Companys shares were admitted to listing in 1994. iii Lord Rothschild 17 November 2003 26 September 2008 iv Arthur Siskind 19 November 1991 26 September 2008 The full schedule of matters reserved for decision making by the Board, can be found ii Lord Wilson of Dinton 13 February 2003 26 September 2008 on the Companys corporate website at www.
These letters of appointment will expire on the day of the Companys AGM in either The Chairman 2009 or 2010.
The date of the AGM in 2010 has yet to be agreed.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
This includes ensuring, via the Company All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and reappointment by shareholders Secretary, that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The duties in accordance with the Companys current Articles of Association see Shareholder of the Chairman include the following: information.
s to encourage and ensure effective communication with shareholders, and ensure Notes: shareholder views are communicated to the Board as a whole: i Daniel Rimer retires and offers himself for reappointment by shareholders in s to facilitate a structure to allow the effective contribution of all Directors, and of nonaccordance with the Companys Articles of Association at the Companys next AGM executive Directors in particular: to be held on 26 September 2008. s to create an environment which engenders constructive relations between executive and non-executive Directors: ii Non-Executive Directors retiring by rotation and offering themselves for s to organise the business of the Board so that it can be carried out effectively and reappointment by shareholders at the Companys next AGM to be held on efficiently: 26 September 2008. s to lead the Board in discussions regarding the Companys strategy and in the achievement of its objectives: iii Lord Rothschild will retire by rotation at the Companys next AGM, to be held on s to ensure Board Committees are properly established, composed and operated: and 26 September 2008, but will not be seeking reappointment by the shareholders.
s to enhance the Companys public standing and image overall.
iv David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind are subject to annual reappointment by The Chief Executive officer shareholders in accordance with requirement A.
7.2. of the Combined Code as they The CEO is responsible for the daily operation of the Company, advancing long-term have served as Non-Executive Directors for longer than nine years.
Allan Leighton shareholder value, supported by the management team.
He is accountable and will have served as a Non-Executive Director for nine year years in October 2008 responsible to the Board for the management and operation of the Company.
He is and will therefore be subject to annual re-appointment with effect from the also involved in the management of the social and environmental responsibilities of Companys AGM in October 2009. the Company.
The duties of the CEO include the following: v Chase Carey, Nicholas Ferguson and Jacques Nasser will be subject to retirement s to be responsible and accountable to the Board for the management and operation by rotation and reappointment by shareholders at the Companys AGM in October of the Group: 2009.
In accordance with the Companys current Articles of Association, one-third s to prepare and implement plans and programmes for the attainment of approved of the Directors must retire by rotation.
Following the retirement by rotation of objectives and to recommend such plans and programmes to the Board as Lord Rothschild at the Companys next AGM, to be held on 26 September 2008, appropriate: the Board will comprise of fourteen Directors.
Assuming that the Board continues s to provide leadership in the Groups commitment to attaining high business to comprise of fourteen Directors, four Directors will be required to retire by standards generally: rotation at the Companys AGM in 2009 in addition to those then subject to s to create the conditions within the Group for the efficient operation of all business annual reappointment.
Accordingly, the remaining Director to retire by rotation in units: 2009 will be selected by drawing lots from those Directors who would otherwise s to establish and maintain relationships with shareholders and potential shareholders, be due to retire by rotation at the AGM of the Company to be held in 2010. and major external bodies: s to keep the Board informed on all matters of material importance: and Non-Executive Directors service agreements do not contain a notice period.
s to chair meetings of the Executive Committee.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is available to advise all Directors and is responsible for ensuring the Board is supplied with all necessary information in a reliable, timely manner.
The Company Secretary ensures good communication between the Board, Board committees and senior management.
The Board has also delegated specic responsibilities to Board Committees, notably the Board Practices Audit, Remuneration and Corporate Governance and Nominations Committees, as set The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times a year to review appropriate out below.
Directors receive Board and Committee papers several days in advance of strategic, operational and financial matters as required.
During the financial year, one Board and Committee meetings.
In addition, the Board members have access to of these meetings was held over two days when the Board met to review the future external professional advice at the Companys expense.
Non-Executive Directors serve strategy and direction of the Group.
for an initial term of three years, subject to reappointment by shareholders following appointment, subsequent reappointment by shareholders, and Companies Act Attendance of the current Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year provisions relating to the removal of Directors.
In addition, reappointment for a further is set out in the table below: term is not automatic, but may be mutually agreed.
All of the Directors are required to Corporate retire and offer themselves for reappointment at least once in every three years.
NonGovernance and Executive Directors who have served for more than nine years on the Board are now Board Audit Remuneration Nominations subject to annual reappointment in accordance with the Combined Code.
Number of meetings A committee of senior management generally meets on a weekly basis to allow heldinyear 8633 prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
It is chaired by the CEO and comprises Director the CFO and other Senior Executives from within the Group.
James Murdoch, Chairman 8 JeremyDarroch, CEO 8 Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive an induction tailored to AndrewGrifth, CFO 2 their individual requirements.
The induction process involves a meeting with all of the Chase Carey 6 Companys Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
This facilitates their DavidDeVoe 7 i understanding of the Group and the key drivers of the business performance.
The David Evans 7 3 i ii Directors are also provided with copies of the Companys corporate governance Nick Ferguson 7 3 1 iii practices and procedures.
Andy Higginson 65 iii Allan Leighton 86 i Directors regularly receive additional information from the Company between Board Jacques Nasser 6 2 iii meetings, including a monthly report updating the Directors on the performance of the Gail Rebuck 76 Group.
Danny Rimer 2 ii Lord Rothschild 8 3 ii Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular issues are arranged.
Arthur Siskind 8 2 ii For example, during the year the Board received a brieng on Directors Duties which Lord Wilson of Dinton 8 3 were codified for the first time by the Companies Act 2006, which is being introduced Rupert Murdoch, Ex-Chairman 3 on a phased basis.
i Remuneration Committee member During the year, the Directors carried out a full evaluation of the performance of the ii Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee member Board, its committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation consists of each Director iii Audit Committee member meeting individually with the Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
The evaluation confirmed that the Board was satisfied with the Boards In accordance with good practice, the independent Non-Executive Directors of the overall performance.
The Non-Executive Directors also meet separately without the Board held separate meetings during the year.
Chairman and Executive Directors present to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
Board role A schedule of matters reserved for the full Boards determination and or approval is in Following this years review, the Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee place, which includes: and Board have confirmed that all Directors standing for reappointment at the forthcoming AGM continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their s approval of the annual budget and any changes to it: roles.
s a major change in the nature, scope or scale of the business of the Group: s approval of the interim and final results: Andrew Grifth and Daniel Rimer retire and offer themselves for reappointment at the s approval of any dividend policy: 2008 AGM in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
David Evans, Allan s changes relating to the Groups capital structure, including reductions of capital and Leighton, James Murdoch and Lord Wilson of Dinton retire from the Board by rotation, share buy-backs: and being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment at this AGM.
Lord Rothschild s the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement or any series of will also retire from the Board by rotation at this years AGM but will not be seeking related commitments or arrangements which, whether budgeted or unbudgeted, reappointment by the shareholders.
David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind are subject to involves or could reasonably involve, the payment or receipt by the Group of amounts annual reappointment in accordance with requirement A.
7.2 of the Combined Code, as equal to or in excess of 100 million in aggregate value: they have served as Non-Executive Directors for longer than nine years.
s the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement or any series of related commitments or arrangements with News Corporation, any of its Board Committees subsidiaries, or a related party which involves, or could reasonably involve, the Terms of reference for the governance of the Board Committees can be found on the payment or receipt by the Group of amounts equal to or in excess of 25 million in Companys corporate website.
aggregate value: s approval of resolutions to be put forward to shareholders at a general meeting: Remuneration Committee s communication involving the general state of the Company: The members of the Remuneration Committee are Nicholas Ferguson Chairman, s changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, following, if applicable, David Evans and Jacques Nasser, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, recommendations from any committee to which the Board delegates consideration of in compliance with the Combined Code.
such issues: s appointment and removal of the Chairman of the Board and the CEO: and The Remuneration Committee has clearly dened terms of reference, meets at least s determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
twice a year, and takes advice from the CEO and independent consultants as appropriate in carrying out its work.
These candidates Corporate governance report were then reduced down to a shortlist of two, both of whom met with the CEO, the continued Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
meetings and round-table discussions are arranged between the Remuneration Committee and institutional shareholders to discuss remuneration policy and aspects of The Board were unanimous in their decision to appoint Andrew Grifth as CFO.
the Committees Report on Directors remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
During the board evaluation held in the previous year, the Board had identied a need for the appointment of a Non-Executive Director with a deep knowledge and James Murdoch and David DeVoe have a standing invitation to attend meetings of the understanding of the rapidly developing internet sector.
Daniel Rimer had come to the Remuneration Committee.
Their attendance at these meetings is as observers only and Boards attention as somebody with the relevant expertise and, after meeting with the in a non-voting capacity.
Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, was recommended as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
The report on Directors remuneration can be found on pages 46 to 53.
In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Report on Directors The Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee led the evaluation of the Board remuneration will be put forward for an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM.
that was completed during the year as discussed earlier in this report.
Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee The Committee also reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and The Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is chaired by Lord Wilson of recommended to the Board that there be no changes to the independent status of the Dinton and its other members are Nicholas Ferguson, Lord Rothschild and Arthur current Non-Executive Directors.
The table on page 39 clearly sets out those NonSiskind.
Nicholas Ferguson was appointed as a member of the Corporate Governance Executive Directors who are considered by the Board to be independent.
The Boards and Nominations Committee on 5 February 2008.
The Corporate Governance and criteria for determining whether a Non-Executive Director is independent are set out in Nominations Committee met three times during the year and the Chairman reports the Memorandum on Corporate Governance which can be found on the Companys regularly to the Board on its activities.
Its main duties include: corporate website.
The Committees review took into consideration the fact that Allan Leighton will have served on the Board for nine years in October 2008.
Provision s the identication and nomination, for approval by the Board, of candidates to ll A.
3.1. of the Combined Code suggests that serving more than nine years could be Board vacancies as they arise: relevant to the determination of a Non-Executive Directors independence.
The s the drafting of requirements for a particular appointment to the Board, taking into Committee concluded that Mr Leighton continued to demonstrate the essential consideration the present balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board: characteristics of independence expected by the Board and that there are no s the regular review of the structure, size and composition of the Board and to relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his recommend any changes to the Board or succession planning: judgement.
7.2. of the Combined Code, Mr Leighton s the provision of a formal letter of appointment, setting out clearly what is expected will be subject to annual reappointment by shareholders with effect from the of new appointees to the Board, in terms of time commitment, term of ofce and Companys AGM in 2009. committee service as well as their duties and liabilities as a Director, including details of the Companys corporate governance policies and directors & ofcers liability Audit Committee insurance cover: and The Audit Committee, which consists exclusively of Independent Non-Executive s the monitoring of the Companys compliance with applicable Corporate Governance Directors, has clearly dened terms of reference as laid down by the Board.
The Codes and other similar requirements.
composition of the Audit Committee is currently Allan Leighton Chairman, Gail Rebuck and Andrew Higginson.
The CFO and representatives from the external auditor and the On 7 December 2007 the Company announced that the then Chairman Rupert internal audit department attend meetings at the request of the Audit Committee.
It is Murdoch would be stepping down from the Board and that he would be replaced by also usual practice for the CEO to attend meetings of the Audit Committee.
Other James Murdoch as Non-Executive Chairman and furthermore that Jeremy Darroch had finance and business executives attend meetings from time to time.
The Audit been appointed as CEO.
Committee Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
These changes were overseen by the Corporate Governance and Nominations David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind have a standing invitation to attend meetings of the Committee and were unanimously approved by the Board of Directors.
Their attendance at these meetings is as observers only and in a non-voting capacity.
All three members of the Audit Committee are independent for The Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee was clear that the appointment the purposes of the Combined Code and Rule 10A-3 b 1 under the Exchange Act.
The of the Chairman had to be in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders.
members have wide ranging experience to bring to the work of the Audit Committee.
The Board was unanimous in its decision that the appointment of James Murdoch as The Audit Committee met six times during the year.
Its duties include: Chairman met that key test given his deep knowledge and understanding of the strategic issues facing the Company and the industries in which it operates.
As a result s making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment of these factors, the Committee did not use an external search consultancy nor open and removal of the external auditors and discussing with the external auditors the advertising to assist with the appointment.
nature, scope and fees for the external auditors work: s reviewing and making recommendations to the Board regarding the approval, or any In looking to recruit a CEO to replace James Murdoch, the Corporate Governance and amendment to, the quarterly, half year and annual financial statements of the Group: Nominations Committee was assisted by JCA Group Limited JCA, Executive Search s reviewing and approving the Groups US Annual Report on Form 20-F prior to its Consultants.
The Committee drew up a list of potential candidates from both inside ling: and outside the Company which provided the basis for the final list of candidates s reviewing the Groups significant accounting policies: prepared by JCA.
s reviewing the Groups systems of internal control: s reviewing the Groups treasury policies: It was the unanimous decision by the Board, following a recommendation by the s recommending the appointment of the Groups Director of Internal Audit: Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, that Jeremy Darroch be appointed s reviewing the audit plan and findings of the Groups internal audit function: as the CEO of the Company.
s monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: s monitoring the Groups whistle-blowing policy: Following the appointment of Jeremy Darroch as CEO, the Company then embarked on s News UK Nominees Limited, a subsidiary of News Corporation, is a major a selection process for a new CFO.
The Corporate Governance and Nominations shareholder in the Group.
which have been entered into during the year and which cumulatively exceed 100,000 in value: Management, including the CEO and CFO, has conducted an evaluation to assess the s Furthermore, Audit Committee approval is required for the entering into by the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting as of 30 June 2008 Group of a commitment or arrangement or any series of related commitments or baseduponcriteriaset forthinthe Internal Control-Integrated Frameworkissued by arrangements with News Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, or any other related the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on party which involves or could reasonably involve the payment or receipt by the Group their assessment, management concluded that, as at 30 June 2008, the Groups of amounts equal to or in excess of 10 million, but not exceeding 25 million in internal control over financial reporting was effective.
aggregate value with News Corporation.
Any transaction in excess of 25 million in aggregate value must be submitted to the Audit Committee and, if approved by the The audit reports set out on page 56 are issued in accordance with auditing standards Audit Committee, must also be submitted to the full Board for approval.
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board US.
These reports express unqualied opinions on the consolidated financial statements of the Group as of and The Audit Committee does not include an Audit Committee Financial Expert as such for the year ended 30 June 2008 as well as on the effectiveness of the Groups term is dened by the SEC rules.
The Audit Committee members have considerable internal control over financial reporting as at 30 June 2008. financial and business experience and the Board considers that the membership as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge its functions.
Disclosure controls and procedures In addition, the Board has determined that each member of the Audit Committee has The Company maintains disclosure controls, procedures and systems that are designed sufficient accounting or related financial management expertise as required by the to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports led under the NYSE listing rules.
Accordingly, it is the opinion of the Board not to formally designate Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the a member as the Audit Committee financial expert.
time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and the Companys UK listing obligations and that such information is accumulated and communicated to Internal control management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow such timely decisions The Directors have overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups regarding required disclosures.
The Company has established a disclosure committee.
systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The committee is chaired by the Company Secretary and its members consist of senior These systems are designed to manage, and where possible eliminate, the risk of managers from group finance, legal and investor relations.
It has responsibility for failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, considering the materiality of information including inside information and on a assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process for identifying, timely basis, determination of the disclosure and treatment of such information.
The evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been established, committee also has responsibility for overseeing the process for the formal review of in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control issued the contents of the Companys Annual Report and ling on Form 20-F. in September 1999 and updated by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
This process has been in place for the year ended 30 June 2008 and up to the date The Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the on which the financial statements were approved.
participation of the Companys management, including the CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of these disclosure controls, procedures and The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the systems at 30 June 2008.
Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO of the Company operation of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during the have concluded that the Companys disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
year andthisreviewhas been carriedout for the year ended30June 2008 and upto the date on which the financial statements were approved.
This review relates to the Changes in internal controls Company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to joint ventures.
The Audit No change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting has occurred during Committee meets on at least a quarterly basis with the Groups internal audit team the year ended 30 June 2008 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to and the external auditors.
materially affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
There is a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting process, and the annual budget, Use of external auditors which is regularly reviewed and updated, is approved by the Board.
Risk assessment The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditors of audit and nonand evaluation take place as an integral part of this process.
Performance is monitored audit services, which categorises such services between: against budget through weekly and monthly reporting cycles.
Monthly reports on performance are provided to the Board and the Group reports to shareholders each s those services which the auditors are not permitted to provide: quarter.
Each area of the Group carries out risk assessments of its operations and s those services which are acceptable for the auditors to provide and the provision of ensures that the key risks are addressed.
A Risk Management Committee, chaired by which has been pre-approved by the Audit Committee: and the CFO and comprising Senior Executives, reviews the management of risks in all s those services for which the specic approval of the Audit Committee is required areas of the Group.
The results of the Risk Management Committees review are before the auditors are permitted to provide the service.
integrated into the budgeting and forecasting process and are integrated into the internal audit planning.
The policy defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal approval mechanisms required to be The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the effectiveness of the completed prior to any engagement.
An analysis of all services provided by the Groups systems of internal control and risk management to the Groups operating external auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
management and to the Audit Committee.
For the year ended 30 June 2008, the Audit Committee has discussed the matter of Managements report on internal control over financial reporting audit independence with Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Groups external auditors, and has The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining received and reviewed conrmation in writing that, in Deloitte & Touche LLPs adequate internal control over financial reporting as dened in Rule 13a-15 f under professional judgement, Deloitte & Touche LLP is independent within the meaning of the Exchange Act.
all UK and US regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
Internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations.
Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only The Audit Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity and reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.
